 AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1
      PHARMACY TECHNICIAN




4P0X1 Qualification Training Package (QTP)


          6.2.6 Operate Isolation Chamber




                                              QTP 4P0X1- 6.2.6
                                                        Oct 2007
                                      OPR: TSgt Jennifer K. Kirk
     AIR FORCE SPECIALTY CODE: 4P0X1 PHARMACY TECHNICIAN


                 OPERATE ISOLATION CHAMBER



                       TABLE OF CONTENTS


MODULE         OBJECTIVE                          PAGES

1.             Operate Isolation Chamber          3-9
                                   INTRODUCTION

1. This Qualification Training Package (QTP) was developed to enhance and standardize
on-the-job training for 4P0X1 personnel. As a trainer, the QTPs provide teachable
elements of task breakdowns. The teachable elements will assist in guiding the trainee
towards independent task performance, proficiency, and serve as an evaluation tool for
task certifiers/certification officials.

2. Review each volume(s) of the Career Development Course (CDC) and identify which
module(s) of QTPs are needed for the trainee’s job position or upgrade skill-level
training. The QTP training for each module should be accomplished in the order which
most closely mirrors the area the trainee is working in. Items in column 2 of the
Pharmacy Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP) marked with a 5 or 7 are
the core tasks for the 4P career field. Additional proficiency training may be required for
these tasks at the supervisor’s discretion.

3. Ensure the trainee reviews the training references in each module prior to attempting
any task or QTP evaluation. Review the performance checklist and training objective
with the trainee. If the trainee has questions about the objective, clarify the desired
outcome/results of performance, demonstration or completion for the task. Remember
the objective of each QTP is to standardize training and allow sufficient time for the
trainee to learn each task thoroughly in order to perform the task independently.

4. When the trainee has received sufficient training and is ready to be evaluated on the
objective, follow the evaluation instructions. The performance checklist must be used as
each task objective. When the trainee successfully demonstrates and accomplishes the
objective, document task completion appropriately in the member’s 6-part
training/competency folder.

5. The QTP task completion is to be annotated on an AF Form 1098 Special Task
Certification and Recurring Training, filed in part 3, section A of the 6-part
training/competency folder. NOTE: The individual check lists and final evaluations are
not filed in each member’s 6-part training/competency folder. A master checklist is filed
in part 3, section A of the Master Training Plan (MTP).

6. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas needing remediation.
Conduct feedback for each module with the trainee, and document appropriately in the
member’s 6-part training/competency folder. As the trainer, once satisfied the trainee is
ready to perform the task, he/she will be re-evaluated until the objective is met.

7. If a task being trained requires third party certification by a task certifier/certifying
official, the trainer ensures trainee is qualified to perform the task independently. The
trainee will then be evaluated by certifier/certifying official. Tasks requiring third party
certification are identified in column 2 of CFETP with a number sign (#). The third party
certifier will ensure documentation in column 3E of the CFETP and finally documented
appropriately in the members’ 6-part training/competency folder.

8. The QTPs are a necessary tool for standardizing task qualifications for upgrade
training or job position training. Such standardization benefits the CFETP training
concept throughout a member’s career. These documents also may be used in
assessing/certifying pharmacy technicians upon arrival at a new duty station.

9. Feedback is a vital and important part of improving our educational process for
pharmacy technicians. First hand expertise is valued and feedback is highly encouraged
ensuring we have the most up-to-date information and training possible. Please direct all
inquires to: your immediate supervisor.
SUBJECT AREA: Inpatient Pharmacy

TASK NAME(S): Operate Isolation Chamber

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(S): 6.2.6

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:

1.   Stainless steel Laminar Flow Glovebox/Isolator (LFGI)
2.   Latex gloves
3.   Hair cover
4.   Lint free gauze
5.   70% Isopropyl Alcohol
6.   Glove sleeves
7.   Sharps container
8.   Plastic bag

TRAINING REFERENCE(S): LFGI GERMFREE USER MANUAL

REMARKS/NOTES:             The trainee should be recertified on operating the isolation
chamber annually.

OBJECTIVE:

1. Perform preparatory facets to operate isolation chamber.

2. Demonstrate ability to operate isolation chamber.

EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the
task.

2. Use the performance checklist to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished without
assistance and without error.

3. Document task competency upon completion of the evaluation in the trainee’s 6-part
training/competency folder. Initial evaluation should be documented in the CFETP. All
recurring evaluations should be documented on AF Form 1098.

STEPS IN TASK PERFORMANCE:

1. Locate and retrieve equipment required to operate isolation chamber

     1.1. Don latex gloves and hair cover.

     1.2. Inspect sleeves and gloves.

     1.3. Clean the inside of the airlock with 70% isopropyl alcohol and lint free gauze.
   1.4. Ensure both airlocks are latched.

  1.5. Place Sharps container to the discharge tube utilizing the clamp or alternate
method (tape or elastic).

    1.6. Attach waste collector (plastic bag) to the discharge tube utilizing the clamp or
alternate method (tape or elastic).

2. Demonstrate performance of operating isolation chamber

   2.1. Clean inside of work area with 70% isopropyl alcohol and lint free gauze (wipe
from top to bottom, and back to front., discard used gauze in waste collector.

  2.2. Ensure the stoppers for the trash tubes and sharps are seated in place.

  2.3. Turn on the work area light and watch for its operation.

  2.4. Turn on the main blower switch. The low pressure alarm will sound until
adequate pressure is achieved. Gloves should move into the work area if the unit is under
negative pressure and out of the work area if under positive pressure.

  2.5. Push the Airlock Purge button and ensure the accompanying red light illuminates.

  2.6. Allow 10 minutes to pass to ensure all air inside of the work area has been filtered
numerous times and an ISO Class 5 condition is met.

  2.7. Adjust the height of the stand to a comfortable working height.

  2.8. Wipe down and place compounding elements in the airlock.

  2.9. Push the airlock purge button, red light will illuminate.

  2.10. Do not open the inner airlock door until light is off.

  2.11. Open the interior airlock door and pull sliding tray into the work area.

  2.12. Remove items from the tray and slide tray back into airlock.

  2.13. Close and latch the inside airlock door.

  2.14. Begin IV preparation by using proper aseptic technique.

  2.15. Dispose of any waste by removing the stopper and pushing waste down the tube.
Replace the stopper to maintain containment.

  2.16. Dispose of any sharps by removing the stopper and dropping the syringe/needle
down the tube. Replace the stopper to maintain containment.

  2.17. Remove completed preparation from the work area by placing in the airlock.
ATTACHMENT(S): None
PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST:

                      OPERATE ISOLATION CHAMBER
                      PERFORMANCE ITEMS                                         SAT   UNSAT
1. Locate and retrieve equipment to operate isolation chamber
  a. Don latex gloves and hair cover
  b. Inspect sleeves and gloves
  c. Clean the inside of the airlock with 70% isopropyl alcohol and lint free
gauze
  d. Ensure both airlocks are latched
  e. Place Sharps container to the discharge tube utilizing the clamp or
alternate method (tape or elastic)
  f. Attach waste collector (plastic bag) to the discharge tube utilizing the
clamp or alternate method (tape or elastic)
 2. Demonstrate ability to operate isolation chamber
  a. Clean inside of work area with 70% isopropyl alcohol and lint free
gauze (wipe from top to bottom, and back to front., discard used gauze in
waste collector
  b. Ensure the stoppers for the trash tubes and sharps are seated in place
  c. Turn on the work area light and watch for its operation
  d. Turn on the main blower switch. The low pressure alarm will sound
until adequate pressure is achieved. Gloves should move into the work area
if the unit is under negative pressure and out of the work area if under
positive pressure
   e. Push the Airlock Purge button and ensure the accompanying red light
illuminates
   f. Allow 10 minutes to pass to ensure all air inside of the work area has
been filtered numerous times and an ISO Class 5 condition is met
   g. Adjust the height of the stand to a comfortable working height
   h. Wipe down and place compounding elements in the airlock
   i. Push the airlock purge button, red light will illuminate
   j. Do not open the inner airlock door until light is off
   k. Open the interior airlock door and pull sliding tray into the work area
   l. Remove items from the tray and slide tray back into airlock
  m. Close and latch the inside airlock door
   n. Begin IV preparation by using proper aseptic technique
   o. Dispose of any waste by removing the stopper and pushing waste down
the tube. Replace the stopper to maintain containment
    p. Dispose of any sharps by removing the stopper and dropping the
syringe/needle down the tube. Replace the stopper to maintain containment
    q. Remove completed preparation from the work area by placing in the
airlock

FINAL RESULTS:
Trainee:
 Trainer:
 Certifier:
 Date:



FEEDBACK: Using the performance checklist as a review reference, discuss the
trainee’s performance, indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvement, etc. If
trainee performed all task steps satisfactorily, document appropriately in trainee’s 6-part
traing/competency folder.
