DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE                                                   QTP4N1X1X-06
Headquarters US Air Force                                                        1 July 2014
Washington, DC 20330-5000




                          SURGICAL SERVICE SPECIALTY

                           Nursing Care of the Surgical Patient




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.




                                                 i
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
                                            QTP 4N1X1-06
                                  SURGICAL SERVICE SPECIALTY
                             Volume 06: Nursing Care of the Surgical Patient

                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS

Introduction                                                                   iii

Module 1.      Intravenous Infusion/Blood Administration

               Intravenous Infusion                                            1

               Blood Administration                                            5


Module 2.      Vital Signs

               Take and Record Vital Signs Manually                            8


Module 3.      Basic Post-Anesthesia Nursing Care

               Oxygen Administration                                           11

               Management of Post-Operative Complications                      13




OPR: AF/SG1E
Certified by: SMSgt Judy Hickman (60 MSGS/CCC)
Supersedes: QTP4N1X1-06, 18 Dec 2009
Pages: 21


                                                    i
THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK




                ii
                                                  INTRODUCTION

1. This qualification training package (QTP) was developed to make available a training aid which will assist
Surgical Service Technicians to develop technical skills essential to performing specialized tasks. The tasks are
broken down into teachable elements, which help the trainer guide the trainee into becoming proficient with the
tasks. The QTP will also aid the task certifier when evaluating trainees for task certification.

2. As a trainer, go through each module (lesson) and identify which QTP tasks are appropriate for the trainee’s duty
position (items identified in the CFETP as core tasks are mandatory), then determine the order in which you want the
trainee to learn about each subject area. Direct the trainee to review the training references to better understand the
objective of each module. Go through the steps in the task performance with the trainee and allow for enough time
to learn each step; some objectives may take more time than others. Remember, the objective of the QTP is to
ensure the trainee can perform each task thoroughly. When the trainee receives enough training and is ready to be
evaluated on an objective, follow the evaluation instructions. Use the performance checklist as you evaluate each
objective. If the trainee successfully accomplishes the objective, document appropriately in the individual’s training
record. If the trainee does not accomplish the objective, review the areas needing more training until the objective is
met. Conduct a feedback with the trainee on each module. After the trainer has ensured and documented that the
trainee is qualified to perform the task, the trainee should be evaluated by a certifier.

3. The goal of the developers of this QTP is to publish a useful document for trainers and trainees that will meet Air
Force needs under the concepts outlined in the Career Field Education and Training Plan (CFETP). We value your
expertise in meeting this goal. If you find discrepancies in this QTP, or have suggestions for its improvement, or if
you have suggestions for other areas that may benefit from a QTP, please let us know about them by contacting the
below individual.


                                     SMSgt Judy Hickman
                                     60MSGS/CCE
                                     Travis AFB, CA 94535
                                     DSN: 799-2385
                                     E-mail: judy.hickman@us.af.mil




                                                           iii
Volume 06                                                                                              Module 1


                               NURSING CARE OF THE SURGICAL PATIENT


                                   Intravenous Infusion/Blood Administration
SUBJECT AREA:                                Duties of Circulating Personnel

TASK(s):                                     Intravenous Infusion

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                      7.6. Commonly used intravenous (IV) solutions
                                             7.6.1. Electrolyte solutions
                                             7.6.2. Blood volume expanders
                                             7.7. Commonly used IV supplies
                                             7.7.1. Needles/catheters
                                             7.7.2. Tubing
                                             7.7.8. Initiate IV infusion
                                             7.9. Monitor intravenous fluid
                                             7.10. Monitor infusion pumps
                                             7.11. Change intravenous fluid
                                             7.12. Discontinue intravenous fluid

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                       CDC 4N151A, Surgical Service Journeyman, Part I
                                             Volume 3, Preoperative and Postoperative Patient Care; Anesthesia,
                                              Unit 2
                                             Volume 5, Surgical Pharmacology, Surgical Wound
                                             Management, Unit 1
                                             Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist; A Positive Care
                                             Approach
                                             Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                          Gloves, tourniquet, antiseptic, alcohol pads, 2x2 and 4x4 gauze pads,
                                             transparent adhesive dressing (Op-site), tape, IV solution, IV tubing,
                                             extension set, IV catheters, infusion pressure bag, arm board, rolled
                                             gauze, IV pump/controller with appropriate administration set

OBJECTIVE:                                   The trainee will, without error, properly and safely perform all
                                             required tasks associated with intravenous infusion

REMARKS/NOTES:                               Before evaluating the trainee on the performance aspects of this QTP,
                                             the trainer/evaluator should ensure trainee has basic knowledge about
                                             common IV solutions and their uses. Since this task involves direct
                                             hands-on patient care, ensure the trainee understands the process,
                                             knows inherent risk factors, and is closely supervised during the
                                             evaluation. If patient is awake, explain procedure and purpose of
                                             evaluation. The evaluator will STOP the procedure immediately
                                             and correct the trainee if performance may compromise safety.
                                             Ensure the trainee dons all personal protective equipment (PPE)
                                             required by current standards/precautions.


EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. This QTP should be evaluated during actual performance of the tasks.




                                                        6
Volume 06                                                                                                  Module 1

2. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task. The trainee must
   satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance.

3. Use the appropriate checklist when evaluating the task to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4. Document competency upon satisfactory completion of the evaluation. Initial evaluation should be documented
   in the Specialty Training Standard (STS). All recurring evaluation should be documented using AF Form 1098,
   Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, or using an approved substitute record.


                                 NURSING CARE OF THE SURGICAL PATIENT

                                           PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST
                            Intravenous Infusion ( If Applicable)                                  SAT         UNSAT
                                       Preparatory Phase
1. Verify physician's order
    a. Note type of IV, gauge, and special notes
    b. Note IV solution type.
    c. Note ordered flow/drip rate
2. Gather supplies/equipment and prepare/prime the infusion set
3. Identify patient/explain procedure
4. Don appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE)
5. Position patient as comfortably as possible, arm on firm padded surface
6. Select insertion site
7. Wash hands
                                         Initiate Infusion
NOTE: This checklist covers infusion using needle-catheter only; specialty infusion (i.e.
    butterfly) is not covered in this QTP.
1. Don gloves
2. Apply tourniquet
3. Clean and prep site (may require shave if excessively hairy)
4. If local policy requires, inject intradermal local anesthetic
5. Aseptically open IV catheter package, save ID wrapper
6. Insert needle/catheter at a 45 degree angle, bevel up if vein larger than catheter, bevel
    down if vein smaller than catheter
7. When blood "backflows," decrease catheter angle to 15-20 degrees
8. Advance catheter into vein while holding needle in place; after catheter advanced,
    withdraw needle while holding catheter hub
9. Attach previously primed infusion set tubing/extension set
10. Release tourniquet
11. Open clamp and ensure flow is unobstructed, reduce flow if OK
12. Secure catheter hub with sterile transparent dressing (Op-site) or with gauze/tape per
      local policy
13. Secure tubing at site in a loop to prevent accidental pulling
14. Tape catheter package to tubing close to site (or use tape labeled with catheter type
      and size) on package (tape), write initials of person inserting, date, & time of
      insertion
15. Apply arm-board using rolled gauze and tape (if ordered)
                                  Regulate/Monitor Infusion
NOTE: This checklist covers regulating flow/drip using roller clamp only; mechanical
    regulating (i.e. IV pump/controller) is not covered in this QTP; follow manufacturer
    instructions/local policy


                                                            2
Volume 06                                                                                              Module 1

                            Intravenous Infusion ( If Applicable)                                SAT     UNSAT
1. Regulate infusion flow rate
    a. Re-check anesthesia provider/physician's order for flow/drip rate
    b. Calculate drip rate
    c. Adjust flow by loosening/tightening clamp
    d. Time-tape IV bag if necessary
2. Monitor insertion site for swelling/discoloration; correct per local policy if infiltration
    occurs
3. Monitor tubing for blood backflow/blockage; correct per local policy
                           Change Intravenous Solution Bag/Bottle
1. Re-check physician's order for solution type and flow/drip rate
2. Obtain new solution bag/bottle; check type and expiration
3. Close tubing clamp
4. Lower empty bag/bottle
5. Remove spike without contaminating
6. Spike new bag/bottle
7. Hang and raise new bag/bottle on IV pole
8. Ensure no air is in line
9. Initiate IV fluid flow and adjust to proper flow rate
10. Document procedure
               Maintain/Monitor Infusion Pump/Controller or Pressure Bag
1. Infusion pump/controller
    a. Assemble appropriate solution/infusion set and attach to pump/controller per
        manufacturer instructions
    b. Connect infusion set to 3-way stopcock
    c. Switch IV from initial IV infusion line to pump/controller line
    d. Ensure settings/alarms on pump/controller are properly set
2. Infusion pressure bag
    a. Change to fresh IV bag
    b. Set-up tubing and fill drip chamber completely
    c. Place IV bag inside pressure bag
    d. Remove excess air from bag by turning upside down and using needle and syringe
        in injection port
    e. Ensure no air is in line
    f. Initiate flow at pressure ordered by anesthesia provider/physician
    g. Monitor patient closely; insertion site for swelling/discoloration, tubing for blood
        backflow/blockage; correct per local policy
                                     Discontinue Infusion
1. Verify the order; check for special patient requirements
2. Gather supplies (gauze, tape)
3. Wash hands and don gloves
4. Clamp/shut off infusion
5. Carefully remove securing tape/dressing from tubing and catheter
6. Place sterile 2x2 or 4x4 over site, gently apply pressure, then quickly and smoothly
    remove catheter (ensure catheter is intact)
7. Elevate insertion site above patients heart while applying firm but gentle pressure to
    site for 30 seconds (or until bleeding stops)
8. Dress site and document procedure IAW local policy




                                                              3
Volume 06                                                                                           Module 1

                 Intravenous Infusion ( If Applicable)                                      SAT           UNSAT
FINAL RESULTS/NOTES:




FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s performance indicating
strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc.




                                                       4
Volume 06                                                                                     Module 1


                      NURSING CARE OF THE SURGICAL PATIENT

                          Intravenous Infusion/Blood Administration
SUBJECT AREA:                      Duties of Circulating Personnel

TASK(s):                           Blood Administration

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):            7.6. Commonly used intravenous (IV) solutions
                                   7.6.1. Electrolyte solutions
                                   7.6.2. Blood volume expanders
                                   7.7. Commonly used IV supplies
                                   7.7.1. Needles/catheters
                                   7.7.2. Tubing
                                   7.8. Initiate peripheral IV infusion
                                   7.9. Monitor intravenous fluid
                                   7.10. Monitor infusion pumps
                                   7.11. Change intravenous fluid
                                   7.12. Discontinue intravenous fluid
                                   7.13. Assist with blood administration
                                   7.13.1. Prepare blood warmer



TRAINING REFERENCE(s):             CDC 4N151A, Surgical Service Journeyman, Part I
                                      Volume 3, Preoperative and Postoperative Patient Care;
                                                  Anesthesia, Unit 2
                                      Volume 5, Surgical Pharmacology, Surgical Wound Management,
                                                  Unit 1
                                   Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist; A Positive Care
                                                  Approach
                                   Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                Gloves, blood or blood component, IV bag (0.9% saline) blood
                                   warmer or pump, administration set
                                   If patient not being monitored electronically, also need:
                                       Blood pressure cuff
                                       Stethoscope,
                                       Electronic thermometer (or other temperature monitor)
                                       Watch/clock with second hand

OBJECTIVE:                         The trainee will, without error, properly and safely perform all
                                   required tasks associated with blood and blood component
                                   administration

REMARKS/NOTES:                     Before evaluating the trainee on the performance aspects of this QTP,
                                   the trainer/evaluator ensure trainee has basic knowledge about blood
                                   and various blood components and their care and uses.
                                   Since this task involves direct hands-on patient care, ensure the trainee
                                   understands the process, knows inherent risk factors, and is closely
                                   supervised during the evaluation. If patient is awake, explain
                                   procedure and purpose of evaluation. The evaluator will STOP the
                                   procedure immediately and correct the trainee if performance
                                   may compromise safety. Ensure the trainee dons all personal


                                               5
Volume 06                                                                                                  Module 1

                                                protective equipment (PPE) required by current standards/precautions.




EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. This QTP should be evaluated during actual performance of the tasks.

2. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task. The trainee must
   satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance.

3. Use the appropriate checklist when evaluating the task to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4. Document competency upon satisfactory completion of the evaluation. Initial evaluation should be documented
   in the Specialty Training Standard (STS). All recurring evaluation should be documented using AF Form 1098,
   Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, or using an approved substitute record.

                                NURSING CARE OF THE SURGICAL PATIENT

                                          PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST
                                Blood Administration                                            SAT           UNSAT
                                 Preparatory Phase
1. Verify physician’s order
2. Verify completed AF Form 1225, Blood Transfusion Informed Consent, is in
    patient’s record
    a. Ensure professional staff member has completed Section I of SF 518, Blood
        and Blood Component Transfusion, for each unit of blood/blood product
        ordered
3. Gather supplies/equipment
4. Obtain blood/blood component from laboratory:
    a. Present card/label (local policy) stamped with patient hospital identification to
        blood bank personnel
    b. Verify identification data with blood bank personnel by checking stamped card
        against label on blood product and SF 518
    c. Confirm type and cross-match has been completed
    d. Sign log and transport blood product to operating room/patient location
        immediately
5. Identify patient/explain procedure (if patient awake)
6. Set-up blood warmer (if used) per local policy and manufacturer instructions:
    a. Turn on warmer per manufacturer’s instructions
    b. Open door and insert tubing into tubing channels
    c. Close door and set/verify temperature settings
7. Set up pressure infusion device (if used) per local policy and manufacturer
    instructions
                           Transfusion Administration Phase
1. Verify physician’s order
2. Verify completed AF Form 1225, Blood Transfusion Informed Consent, is in
    patient’s record
3. Verify proper patient/blood product on unit:
    a. Verify with professional staff member that blood product identification matches


                                                           6
Volume 06                                                                                          Module 1

                                   Blood Administration                                  SAT              UNSAT
        SF 518
    b. Check patient identification band and ask patient to state name (if patient is
        awake)
    c. Check expiration date and time on blood product
    d. Complete information of SF 518 in Section III, Pre-Transfusion Data
4. Explain procedure to patient (if awake)
5. Ensure IV of .09% normal saline has been initiated, or initiate one
6. Take and record baseline vital signs
7. Wash hands and don gloves
8. Assemble necessary blood administration equipment:
    a. “Y”-type blood administration set (or locally approved set)
    b. Blood warmer (if ordered)
    c. Pressure device (if ordered)
9. Professional staff member will hang blood and perform actual transfusion; assist
    as needed
10. Monitor patient per local policy; as a minimum:
    a. Instruct patient to report any unusual signs or symptoms (if patient is awake)
    b. Monitor patient closely during first 15 minutes of transfusion
    c. Measure and record vital signs after 15 minutes
    d. Continue to monitor patient and measure and record vital signs every 30
        minutes until transfusion is complete
11. If adverse signs/symptoms are noted, immediately stop transfusion and notify
    nurse or physician
                                  Post-Transfusion Phase
1. Measure and record post-transfusion vital signs
2. Properly dispose of contaminated tubing
3. Return empty blood component bag to laboratory (if local policy ) along with 2nd
    and 3rd copies of SF 518
4. Continue to monitor patient for adverse reactions
FINAL RESULTS/NOTES:




FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s performance indicating
strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc.




                                                           7
Volume 06                                                                                                 Module 2


                                NURSING CARE OF THE SURGICAL PATIENT


                                                      Vital Signs
SUBJECT AREA:                                  Nursing Care of the Surgical Patient

TASK(s):                                       Take and Record Vital Signs Manually

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                        8.8. Measure/document patient vital signs
                                               8.8.1. Blood pressure
                                               8.8.1.1. Manual
                                               8.8.1.2. Electronic
                                               8.8.2. Pulse
                                               8.8.2.1. Manual
                                               8.8.2.2. Electronic
                                               8.8.3. Respirations


TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                         CDC 4N151A, Surgical Service Journeyman, Part I
                                                  Volume 3, Preoperative and Postoperative Patient Care;
                                                              Anesthesia, Unit 3
                                               Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist; A Positive Care
                                                              Approach
                                               Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                            Electronic thermometer or other temperature monitoring device
                                               Watch/clock with seconds counter
                                               Blood pressure cuff
                                               Stethoscope

OBJECTIVE:                                     The trainee will, without error, manually take and record patient vital
                                               signs

REMARKS/NOTES:                                 Since this task involves direct hands-on patient care, ensure the trainee
                                               understands the process, knows inherent risk factors, and is closely
                                               supervised during the evaluation. If patient is conscious, explain
                                               purpose of evaluation before starting procedure. The evaluator will
                                               STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if
                                               performance compromises safety. Ensure the trainee dons all
                                               personal protective equipment (PPE) required by current standards or
                                               precautions.


EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. This QTP should be evaluated during actual performance of the tasks.

2. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task. The trainee must
   satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance. Ensure the trainee can state or otherwise
   demonstrates knowledge of facts relating to selection of appropriate vital sign monitoring devices (rectal vs. oral
   thermometer, infant vs. child vs. adult BP cuff, etc.) and can properly identify and report abnormal vital signs.

3. Use the appropriate checklist when evaluating the task to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.



                                                           8
Volume 06                                                                                         Module 2

4. Document competency upon satisfactory completion of the evaluation. Initial evaluation should be documented
   in the Specialty Training Standard (STS). All recurring evaluation should be documented using AF Form 1098,
   Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, or using an approved substitute record.


                                NURSING CARE OF THE SURGICAL PATIENT

                                             PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST
                          Take and Record Vital Signs Manually                            SAT        UNSAT
                                         Temperature
1. Place a disposable cover over the probe or temperature sensor
    a. Oral probes are usually blue
    b. Rectal and axillary are red
    c. Ear canal sensors look similar to otoscope
2. Place the covered probe under the patient’s tongue, in the axilla, in the rectum, or
    in the ear canal, as appropriate
3. Activate the thermometer
4. Wait until the thermometer indicates reading is complete
5. Document results
6. Remove and discard probe cover
                                         Radial Pulse
1. Place tips of first three fingers on center of palm side of patient’s wrist, about 2
    inches from the base of the hand
2. Slide fingertips toward thumb side of wrist
3. Lightly press inward until the pulse of the radial artery is palpated
4. Determine rate by one of these methods: NOTE: If the pulse is irregular, you must
    use the full minute method
    a. Counting the beats for 15 seconds and multiplying by 4
    b. Counting for 30 seconds and multiplying by 2
    c. Counting for a full minute
5. Document results
                       Carotid Pulse (Note: Emergency Use ONLY)
1. Place index and middle fingers on the patient’s Adam’s apple
2. Gently slide fingertips laterally into the groove between the trachea and the
    sternocleidomastoid muscle
3. Lightly press inward until pulse of carotid artery is palpated
4. Determine rate by one of these methods: NOTE: If the pulse is irregular, you must
    use the full minute method
    a. Counting the beats for 15 seconds and multiplying by 4
    b. Counting for 30 seconds and multiplying by 2
    c. Counting for a full minute
5. Document results
                                         Apical Pulse
1. Place stethoscope diaphragm on left side of chest, slightly below the breast
2. Move diaphragm until “lub-dub” of heartbeat heard
3. Count each “lub-dub” as one beat; count for 1 full minute
4. Document results
                                         Respiration
NOTE: Assess respiration immediately before or after assessing pulse, keeping
fingers/stethoscope in position used to palpate pulse. If patient thinks pulse is being
assessed, they generally do not alter breathing
1. Do not tell the patient you are assessing respiration


                                                           9
Volume 06                                                                                           Module 2

                        Take and Record Vital Signs Manually                             SAT              UNSAT
2. Begin count on inhale (chest rises); count each rise and fall of the chest as one
respiration.
3. Observe for regularity, symmetry, depth , and pain or difficulty
4. Count respiration for 1 full minute
5. Report any abnormalities to professional staff
6. Document results
                                      Blood Pressure
1. Select the appropriate BP cuff.
2. Ensure patient is as comfortable as possible, sitting or lying, forearm supported
    about heart-level, palm up
3. Locate brachial pulse by palpating
4. Wrap cuff snugly around upper arm, lower edge 1 to 2 inches above elbow, cuff
    range or diaphragm centered over brachial artery
5. Place ear pieces of stethoscope in your ears, hold inflating bulb in palm of hand,
    and close pressure release valve
6. Palpate brachial pulse or radial pulse using fingertips of free hand
7. Continue to palpate pulse as you inflate cuff; inflate cuff 30 mm Hg higher than
    point where pulse palpation disappears
8. Place stethoscope diaphragm (if no internal cuff diaphragm) over brachial artery;
    ensure stethoscope head does not touch cuff/clothing
9. Listen closely and open valve slightly; gradually deflate cuff 2-3 mm Hg per
    second. Watch manometer; when two consecutive heartbeats are heard, record
    reading as systolic pressure
10. Continue deflating cuff slowly and evenly. The reading when the pulse is no
      longer heard or is muffled is the diastolic pressure
11. Continue to monitor, slowly releasing cuff pressure another 30 mm Hg, then
      release all pressure by fully opening valve
12. Document results
FINAL RESULTS/NOTES:




FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s performance indicating
strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc.




                                                           10
Volume 06                                                                                                  Module 3


                                NURSING CARE OF THE SURGICAL PATIENT


                                         Basic Post-Anesthesia Nursing Care
SUBJECT AREA:                                   Nursing Care of the Surgical Patient

TASK(s):                                        Oxygen Administration

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                         8.7. Assist with oxygen administration
                                                8.7.1. Fixed
                                                8.7.2. Portable

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                          CDC 4N151A, Surgical Service Journeyman, Part I
                                                   Volume 3, Preoperative and Postoperative Patient Care;
                                                               Anesthesia, Unit 3
                                                Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist; A Positive Care
                                                               Approach
                                                Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                             Oxygen source, flowmeter, humidifier, delivery device (nasal cannula,
                                                mask, tent), sterile water, warning signs required by current
                                                standards/local policy

OBJECTIVE:                                      The trainee will, without error, assist with administration of oxygen to
                                                a surgical patient

REMARKS/NOTES:                                  Since this task involves direct hands-on patient care, ensure the trainee
                                                understands the process, knows inherent risk factors, and is closely
                                                supervised during the evaluation. If patient is conscious, explain
                                                purpose of evaluation before starting procedure. The evaluator will
                                                STOP the procedure immediately and correct the trainee if
                                                performance compromises safety. Ensure the trainee dons all
                                                personal protective equipment (PPE) required by current standards or
                                                precautions.


EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. This QTP should be evaluated during actual performance of the tasks.

2. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient practice on each part of the task. The trainee must
   satisfactorily perform all parts of the task without assistance.

3. Use the appropriate checklist when evaluating the task to ensure all steps of the task are accomplished.

4. Document competency upon satisfactory completion of the evaluation. Initial evaluation should be documented
   in the Specialty Training Standard (STS). All recurring evaluation should be documented using AF Form 1098,
   Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, or using an approved substitute record.




                                                            1
Volume 06                                                                                           Module 3


                               NURSING CARE OF THE SURGICAL PATIENT

                                              PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST
                                 Oxygen Administration                                    SAT          UNSAT
                                    Preparatory Phase
1. Verify and determine delivery method ordered
2. Wash hands
3. Explain procedure to patient (if awake)
4. Assist patient to semi-sitting position
5. Attach flowmeter to oxygen source
6. Attach humidifier to flowmeter (fill with water if necessary)
7. Attach connection end of delivery tubing to humidifier
8. Set flow rate to ordered setting (i.e. liters/minute)
9. Check for proper oxygen flow (bubbles in humidifier, output through delivery
   device)
                                 Delivery- Nasal Cannula
1. Place cannula over face
   a. Prongs in nares
   b. Elastic around back of head; pad bony areas if necessary
2. Adjust to stay in place
                                   Delivery- Face Mask
1. Apply so mask covers nose first, then mouth
2. Adjust mask to contour of face (sides, chin, nose clips)
3. Place elastic around back of head; pad bony areas if necessary
4. Place reservoir bag (if present) on chest, ensure unobstructed
5. Adjust mask to fit snugly over nose and mouth
                                   Delivery- Face Tent
1. Place tent over face, applying from chin upward
2. Adjust elastic or ties around head; pad bony areas if necessary
                                Follow-up/Monitor Phase
1. Check patient for skin/pressure irritation from delivery device
2. Monitor water level and liter flow; change humidifier, water, and/or delivery
   device per local policy
3. Assess patient condition per local policy
4. Document procedure
FINAL RESULTS/NOTES:




     FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s performance indicating
                           strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc.




                                                         12
Volume 06                                                                                                 Module 3

                                NURSING CARE OF THE SURGICAL PATIENT


                                         Basic Post-Anesthesia Nursing Care
SUBJECT AREA:                                  Nursing Care of the Surgical Patient

TASK(s):                                       Management of Post-Operative Complications

CFETP/STS REFERENCE(s):                        8. Anesthesia
                                                    Assist with respiratory complications
                                                    Assists with cardiovascular complications
                                                    Assists with allergic reactions to drugs/anesthesia
                                               8.6.1. Malignant hyperthermia
                                               8.6.2. Shock

TRAINING REFERENCE(s):                         CDC 4N151A, Surgical Service Journeyman, Part I
                                                  Volume 3, Preoperative and Postoperative Patient Care;
                                                              Anesthesia, Units 2 and 3
                                               Surgical Technology for the Surgical Technologist; A Positive Care
                                                              Approach
                                               Standards, Recommended Practices and Guidelines

EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:                            None

OBJECTIVE:                                     The trainee will demonstrate knowledge of more common potential
                                               postoperative complications, to include causes and symptoms of
                                               complications and initial management of these complications

REMARKS/NOTES:                                 Since this task involves potentially life-threatening situations for
                                               patients, ensure the trainee thoroughly understands the symptoms,
                                               causes, and treatment of the complications. This section of the QTP
                                               should NOT be used during actual hands-on patient care.


EVALUATION INSTRUCTIONS:

1. This QTP should be evaluated in a training setting, during simulation or discussion of the subject tasks.

2. After the trainee has received instructions, allow sufficient time to review required knowledge. The trainee must
   satisfactorily demonstrate knowledge of all parts of each subject.

3. Use the appropriate checklist when evaluating to ensure all areas of the subject are covered.

4. Document competency upon satisfactory completion of the evaluation. Initial evaluation should be documented
   in the Specialty Training Standard (STS). All recurring evaluation should be documented using AF Form 1098,
   Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, or using an approved substitute record.




                                                           1
Volume 06                                                                                       Module 3


                                  NURSING CARE OF THE SURGICAL PATIENT

                                            PERFORMANCE CHECKLIST
                               Post-Operative Complications                               SAT     UNSAT
                                       Pain Management
1.   Identify typical areas/causes:
      a. Skin/subcutaneous tissue from incision(s)
      b. Deep tissue from manipulation, retraction, resection, etc.
      c. Airway/respiratory tract from drying agents, tubes, airways
      d. Localized pain/stiffness from immobilization or pressure
      e. IV site from catheter, infiltration, pressure
      f. Catheter/drain site pain from pressure/irritation
2.   Explain common actions/interventions
      a. Analgesic medication (professional staff administered)
      b. Put patient at ease as much as possible--keep informed of condition or status,
          likely events
      c. Position as comfortably as possible
      d. "Splint" incision site during movement, deep breathing, coughing
                                     Nausea and Vomiting
1.   Identify causes/triggers
      a. Gas, mucous, blood in stomach
      b. Narcotics
      c. Anesthetic agents
      d. Severe pain
      e. Rough handling during transport/positioning
2.   Explain common actions/interventions for nausea
      a. Deep breathing/coughing
      b. Oxygen therapy
      c. Cool, damp washcloth to sponge forehead/wrists
      d. Anti-nausea medication (professional staff administered)
3.   Explain common actions/interventions for vomiting
      a. Turn patient's head to side
      b. Lower head of bed
      c. Oral suctioning
      d. Assess for aspiration--report findings to professional staff
                               Body Temperature Fluctuation
1.   Identify hypothermia symptoms/causes/complications
      a. Body temperature drop
      b. Cold rooms and solutions contribute
      c. Shivering/slow respiration lead to hypoxia
2.   Explain hypothermia treatment/intervention
      a. Rewarm patient using blankets, warm solutions, etc.
      b. Oxygen therapy
3.   Explain hyperthermia (fever) causes/complications
      a. Infection
      b. Pre-existing diseases/conditions
      c. Drug reaction
      d. Malignant Hyperthermia (MH)
4.   Explain hyperthermia treatment/intervention
      a. Generally not treated unless exceptionally high--except MH
      b. Rapid cooling, MH treatment per local protocol

                                                             14
                              Post-Operative Complications                               SAT   UNSAT
    c. Infection and drug reaction may be treated with medication
                                   Emergence Delirium
1. Identify typical symptoms
    a. Agitated, restless, thrashing
    b. Excited, "babbling," screaming, shouting
    c. Crying, moaning
    d. Disoriented, irrational
2. Explain typical cause--hypoxia; contributors:
    a. Barbiturates
    b. Fear
    c. Poorly managed pain
    d. Full bladder
3. Explain common actions/interventions
    a. Treat hypoxia (airway and oxygen)
    b. Safety restraint/positioning
    c. Hold/comfort (esp. children)
    d. Catheterization
    e. Medications (professional staff administered)
          Identify/Explain other Complications (evaluate per local protocol)
1. Fluid/electrolyte imbalance
2. Shock
3. Hypoxia
4. Hemorrhage
5. Aspiration
6. Wound dehiscence/evisceration
7. Airway obstruction
8. Cardiac arrest
FINAL RESULTS/NOTES:


FEEDBACK: Using this checklist as a source of information, discuss the trainee’s performance
indicating strengths, weaknesses, suggested improvements, etc.
