BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               RAMSTEIN AIR BASE
86TH AIRLIFT WING                                                       INSTRUCTION 24-302

                                                                                    9 JULY 2013

                                                                                  Transportation

                                                          VEHICLE ACCIDENT AND ABUSE
                                                                            PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and form are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasablility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 86 VRS/LGRVM                                                       Certified by: 86 VRS/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Ryan M. Coyne)
Supersedes:    RAMSTEINABI24-302,                                                       Pages: 12
               25 August 2000


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-3, Management, Operation
and use of Transportation Vehicles and outlines definitions, responsibilities, and procedures for
an effective vehicle accident and abuse program at Ramstein Air Base (AB) in accordance with
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 24-302, Vehicle Management. Visibility and emphasis is placed at
the unit level and under the direct control of the unit commander to foster better operator care
and condition of Ramstein’s vehicle fleet. This instruction is applicable to all persons operating
any Government Owned Vehicle/Equipment (GOV/E) that is assigned to Ramstein AB and its
geographically separated units (GSU), which are loaded in the On-Line Vehicle Interactive
Management System (OLVIMS). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Record Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims.afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers..

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document integrates changes made to how vehicles involed in accidents and abuses are
repaired and released to the owning units (para.1.4.3.). Additionally, changes were made to the
 2                                                         RAMSTEINABI24-302 9 JULY 2013


unit notification process to ensure all offices involved in the process are properly notifed (para.
1.4.4.)
1. General Information. Vehicle abuse is normally considered damage caused by willful or
negligent acts of improper operation or care and cannot be attributed to fair wear and tear.
Willful or negligent acts are not limited to acts that directly result in damage to the vehicle;
failing to turn in a vehicle for a regularly scheduled preventative maintenance is considered
neglect and is therefore considered vehicle abuse (see Attachment 2 for a detailed list of items
considered as abuse). A vehicle accident is basically a result of a collision between the vehicle
and another object.
     1.1. Incidents are classified as damage caused by acts of nature, natural disasters, mechanical
     failures or other phenomenon that in no way could have been avoided by safe operation or
     adequate vehicle care during non-use. Classification of incidents may also include damage
     resulting from normal use for the vehicle’s intended purpose (e.g., snow removal or heavy
     construction work). Using organizations are not required to reimburse for damage caused by
     incidents.
     1.2. All Vehicle Management O&M funds expended for vehicle accidents and abuse repair
     costs, including contract cost, will be reimbursed to 86th Vehicle Readiness Squadron,
     Vehicle Management Flight (86 VRS/LGRVM) by the owning organization, or the
     organization responsible for the damage if not the owner. In such cases reimbursement is to
     be accomplished through a transfer of funds from the using organization’s operation and
     maintenance (O&M) account to the 86 VRS O&M account.
     1.3. 86 VRS/LGRVM will:
        1.3.1. Identify vehicle damage caused by accident or abuse.
        1.3.2. Provide Vehicle Damage Notification Letter (see Attachment 3 of this
        instruction) and e-mail detailing required unit actions (see Attachment 4), SF 91 Motor
        Vehicle Accident Report and photos (if available) to the squadron commander and vehicle
        control officer (VCO) or vehicle control noncommissioned officer (VCNCO) of the
        assigned organization (may not be the unit responsible for damage) with a repair
        estimate. Copies are also sent to the 86th Airlift Wing, Ground Safety office (86
        AW/SEG). See paragraph 1.5.3 for details on completing the accident and abuse
        notification letter.
        1.3.3. Repair asset and release to the unit. NOTE: Repairs will commence after 3
        calendar days unless the using organization’s commander requested the asset be held
        pending investigation (by selecting Option 1 in the Accident or Abuse Notification letter,
        Attachment 3). Additionally, the asset will not be released to the unit until the required
        documentation (see para.1.4.4) is received from the using organization.
        1.3.4. Provide AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement, to the
        assigned or using organization.
        1.3.5. Maintain accident or abuse repair information for a 12-month period.
        1.3.6. Track and provide a listing of those costs to be reimbursed (sorted by
        organization) to 86th Comptroller Squadron, Financial Management Analysis (86
        CPTS/FMA) each month indicating the cost of refund/reimbursement required in each
RAMSTEINABI24-302 9 JULY 2013                                                              3


     case. Due to the amount of labor involved in the transfer of funds, repairs under $150
     will be consolidated and billed once the unit total has exceeded $150. The VRS Resource
     Advisor (RA) will prepare an AF Form 406 Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement
     Document (MORD) for turn-in to 86 CPTS/FMA. In turn, the owing unit will obligate
     the billed amount with a MORD of their own. Once both MORDs are accomplished
     (with the exception of our "sister services"; they submit DD Form 448, Military
     Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR). VRS' RA submits both MORDs, a billing
     summary, and a Journal Voucher to Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) for
     processing.
     1.3.7. Notify USAFE/A4RV if the following conditions exist:
         1.3.7.1. All Class A, B, or C vehicle mishaps as identified in AFI 91-204, Safety
         Investigations and Reports, paragraph 1.10 though 1.10.3. NOTE: contact Wing
         Safety to determine accurate mishap class cost thresholds.
         1.3.7.2. All vehicle mishaps where assets involved are identified in AFI 24-302,
         Table 2.1, priority one vehicles, and firefighting, Explosive Ordnance Disposal
         (EOD) vehicles identified in Table 2.2, priority two vehicles (to include MRAP)
         meeting the minimum Class C threshold.
         1.3.7.3. When reporting; information must include date, time, and location of
         accident; type of vehicles involved; estimated cost of accident damages; and any
         additional information necessary (such as injury, death, property damages, aircraft
         damages, etc.) to include Accident Form SF91. Digital photographs of vehicles
         involved will be part of the reporting package. Note: if accidents occur during non-
         duty hours, report required information the next duty day.
  1.4. Assigned and using organizations will:
     1.4.1. Ensure a viable vehicle accident prevention program is part of the unit’s safety
     program (see Attachment 5 of this instruction).
     1.4.2. Turn-in all vehicles damaged due to accidents or incidents within 24-hours of the
     incident to 86VRS/LGRVM; this includes U-Drive-it and loaned vehicles.
     1.4.3. Complete the Accident or Abuse Notification Letter. The VCO/VCNCO will
     review and route the document to the unit commander for electronic signature.
     Additionally, the using organization’s resource advisor will establish an AF Form 406,
     Miscellaneous Obligation Reimbursement Document (MORD) for the required
     reimbursement amount indicated on the Accident and Abuse Notification Letter and
     return the document(s) to the 86 VRS at the following email address:
     86vrs.vehiclemanagement@us.af.mil. NOTE: the asset will not be released to the
     unit regardless of its repair status until a MORD is established and the
     documentation is provided to the 86 VRS.
     1.4.4. Where responsibility cannot be determined, the owning organization will be
     responsible for reimbursement. The using organization investigates all damage not
     attributed to fair wear and tear IAW AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force
     Property.
4                                                         RAMSTEINABI24-302 9 JULY 2013


       1.4.5. The VCO or VCNCO will ensure that copies of accident reports as well as any
       photographs are submitted to the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) via the 86 AW/JA org box
       (86.AW.JA@us.af.mil) within 5 duty days for all accidents involving government-
       owned vehicles (GOV) and privately owned vehicles (POV). The SJA will provide
       guidance to the investigating officer(s) and commander(s), and conduct legal reviews of
       formal reports.
       1.4.6. The primary responsibility to identify and report accidents rests with the vehicle
       operator. The 86th Security Forces must be immediately notified of vehicle damages.
       Do not move the vehicle(s) prior to notification.
    1.5. 86 VRS/CC will monitor the vehicle accident and abuse program and up-channel reports
    on significant trends as well as the effectiveness of the program to the 86 Logistics Readiness
    Group (LRG) and 86th Airlift Wing leadership as deemed necessary.
    1.6. The 86 LRG commander is the final deciding authority to resolve all conflicts
    concerning this program.




                                      PATRICK X. MORDENTE, Brigadier General, USAF
                                      Commander
RAMSTEINABI24-302 9 JULY 2013                                                             5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFMAN 23-220_USAFESUP1, Report of Survey for Air Force Property, 12 Sept 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPD 24-3, Management, Operation and Use of Transportation Vehicles, 7 July 2010 (Certified
Current 9 November 2012)
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 June 2012
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for the Change of Publication
AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement
AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document
DD Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
SF 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB—Airbase
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
GOV/E—Government Owned Vehicle/Equipment
GSA—General Services Administration
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IAW—In Accordance With
LRG—Logistics Readiness Group
 6                                                        RAMSTEINABI24-302 9 JULY 2013


MORD—Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document
MIPR—Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
OLVIMS—On-Line Vehicle Interactive Management System
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
RA—Resource Advisor
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
T.O.—Technical Order
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Commissioned Officer

Terms
Fair Wear and Tear:—The normal expected deterioration of a vehicle or equipment based on
its age, usage and life expectancy.
Motor Vehicle Accident:—Any collision, impact, or abrasion against a fixed or moving object
with a military motor vehicle, that causes damage, whether immediately noticeable or not.
Vehicle Abuse:—An act or omission that has caused, or may cause, damage that cannot be
attributed to fair wear and tear under normal use, accident or incidents. Vehicle abuse may result
in early failure of components or immediately detectable damage. Some examples of vehicle
abuse are listed in Attachment 2 of this instruction.
Vehicle Incident: —Repairs required as a result of damages beyond the control of an individual,
which have resulted from natural causes. Such repairs will not be categorized as an accident or
abuse. Letters of explanation from individual will accompany vehicles turned in to explain any
incident damage. Examples of incidents are: (1), a rock thrown through the windshield by the
tire of a vehicle being followed; (2), a windcarried object striking a vehicle or (3), hail or other
inclement weather damage.
U-Drive-It: —Vehicle available to support organizations that do not have assigned vehicles and
to augment units with assigned vehicles in meeting infrequent peak requirements for short-term
use. Support is normally limited to 72-hours.
RAMSTEINABI24-302 9 JULY 2013                                                                  7


                                         Attachment 2
                             EXAMPLES OF VEHICLE ABUSE

A2.1. Vehicle abuse action will be initiated for vehicle or equipment damage or failure resulting
from:
   A2.1.1. Improper cargo distribution or failure to secure loads properly in cargo areas of
   vehicle or not following established loading and unloading procedures.
   A2.1.2. Using a vehicle for other than its intended or designed purpose (i.e., 6K F/L used to
   transport a 10,000 pound pallet).
   A2.1.3. Tampering with governors, distributors or pollution-control devices.
   A2.1.4. Operating vehicles with insufficient oil or coolant; failure to check fluid levels
   according to established requirements or failure to monitor dashboard instrumentation.
   A2.1.5. Operating vehicle with parking brake applied or ”riding” the brakes while vehicle is
   in motion.
   A2.1.6. Failing to protect the painted surface(s) from corrosion and/or oxidation.
   A2.1.7. Failure to clean, wax or maintain vehicle’s interior or exterior to meet corrosion
   control and appearance requirements.
   A2.1.8. Unauthorized wiring, marking or modification of a vehicle (modifications must be
   processed in writing through the VCO or VCNCO and Vehicle Management for approval).
   A2.1.9. Vehicle being operated by an unqualified or untrained operator without an instructor
   present.
   A2.1.10. Operating a vehicle with broken tire chains or improperly inflated tires; i.e., not
   IAW manufacturer recommendations.
   A2.1.11. Tire wear beyond minimum acceptable safe tread depth. Tire wear that exposes the
   cord, renders tires unsuitable to be recapped or re-grooved and is unsafe.
   A2.1.12. Intentional destruction or disfigurement of vehicle interior or exterior.
   A2.1.13. Operating a vehicle or equipment in conflict with published safety Department of
   Defense (DoD) publication, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH),
   Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), Air Force Instruction (AFI), Air Force Manual
   (AFMAN), Technical Order (T.O.) or German laws concerning vehicle safety.
   A2.1.14. Allowing water to accumulate in the vehicle interior as a result of washing with a
   hose, or the excessive accumulation of water from a storm, due to leaving windows open.
   A2.1.15. Over-filling the engine crankcase, transmission or hydraulic reservoirs.
   A2.1.16. Servicing the vehicle fuel tank, hydraulic reservoir or other fluid systems with
   incorrect fuel, oils or fluids.
   A2.1.17. Not restraining doors when opening in excessive wind.
   A2.1.18. Operating a vehicle in violation of operator’s manual or accepted driving practices.
 8                                                       RAMSTEINABI24-302 9 JULY 2013


A2.2. Other situations where vehicle abuse action will be initiated:
     A2.2.1. Failure to report any malfunctions, defects or damages on a vehicle to 86
     VRS/LGRVM within 24 hours. A pre-approved delay of this action can be authorized by 86
     VRS/LGRVM to support mission requirements.
     A2.2.2. Failure to bring vehicle or equipment to 86 VRS/LGRVM for scheduled
     maintenance before an overdue condition exists. Prior to becoming overdue, pre-approved
     rescheduling due to mission requirements is exempt.
     A2.2.3. Failure to accomplish proper operator care and maintenance stated in AFI 24-302,
     paragraph 3.19.
RAMSTEINABI24-302 9 JULY 2013                    9


                                Attachment 3
                   VEHICLE DAMAGE NOTIFICATION
 10                                                      RAMSTEINABI24-302 9 JULY 2013


                                         Attachment 4
              SAMPLE ACCIDENT OR ABUSE NOTIFICATION LETTER

MEMORANDUM FOR XXXXXX

FROM: 86 VRS/CC

SUBJECT: Vehicle ACCIDENT/ABUSE Notification and Funds Request


AFI 24-302, Para 1.20, stipulates the using organization must pay for all accident/abuse repairs.
Also, a preliminary investigation is required for any damage to a GOV, regardless of cost, to
determine whether or not a Reports of Survey for Air Force Property (ROS) will be required per
AFMAN 23-220.

Please complete the attached documents and return to the org box,
vrs.accidentabuses@ramstein.af.mil.

For questions regarding this damaged vehicle please contact the VRS org box referenced above.
For Report of Survey questions in reference to this vehicle please contact the ROS Pgm Mgr at
kmc.rosmanager@ramstein.af.mil.




                                                            SIGNATURE BLOCK
RAMSTEINABI24-302 9 JULY 2013                                                                   11


                                         Attachment 5
                               SAFE DRIVING GUIDELINES

A5.1. The goal of a vehicle accident prevention program is to reduce the number and severity of
vehicle accidents. All units should ensure a viable vehicle accident prevention program is part of
the unit’s safety program. One way to accomplish this is by incorporating driver safety into your
weekly safety briefings and becoming familiar with the following directives: AFI 91-207, The
US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, USAFE Supplement, and AFI 91-202, The US Air Force
Mishap Prevention Program, USAFE and 86 AW Supplement. There are six main areas that
should be stressed:
A5.2. Regular Vehicle Inspections (at least monthly, or more frequently as required for
Firefighting, Fuel servicing, Material Handling/463L, Nuclear-Certified assets and Security
forces assets by AFI 24-302 and other policy guidance).
   A5.2.1. Tires: Check tire pressure and visually check for damage/abnormalities.
   A5.2.2. Lights: Visually check for proper operation.
   A5.2.3. Leaks: Visually check for fuel/brake/oil/coolant leaks.
   A5.2.4. Engine oil and coolant: Visually check levels.
   A5.2.5. Battery: Visually check fluid level, cleanliness, security of hold-down.
   A5.2.6. Drive belts: Visually check for fraying or cracking.
   A5.2.7. Safety devices: Functionally check operation of seat belts, headrests and warning
   lights.
   A5.2.8. Instrument, horn and windshield wipers: Functionally check for operation.
   A5.2.9. Brake and steering: Functionally check responsiveness and effectiveness.
   A5.2.10. Note any unusual           occurrences    such    as     noise,   odor    and   erratic
   instruments/operation.
A5.3. Safe Driving Cushion between Vehicles.
   A5.3.1. Use the 2-second rule during normal driving conditions and more during inclement
   weather. As the vehicle in front of you passes an object begin counting, if you pass that
   object before reaching two (2) seconds you could be following too closely.
   A5.3.2. Never over-drive the distance lit by your headlights.
   A5.3.3. Signal your intentions at least 100 feet ahead of intersection. Not signaling your
   intentions well in advance causes other drivers to make last-minute/panic decisions.
   A5.3.4. Exercise caution anytime you are backing a vehicle; use spotters when you cannot
   see.
   A5.3.5. Use mirrors to monitor your surroundings. If you cannot see, use a spotter.
   A5.3.6. Ensure you have adequate clearance around vehicles, especially when operating
   over-sized vehicles or towing equipment. Larger vehicles need a larger area to maneuver.
 12                                                     RAMSTEINABI24-302 9 JULY 2013


A5.4. Expecting the Unexpected.
   A5.4.1. Be constantly aware of surroundings and watch for other vehicles. You not only
   have to deal with decisions that you make, but the decisions of other drivers as well.
   A5.4.2. Be attentive to situations that may come up while driving. You are not the only
   driver on the road.
   A5.4.3. Always drive defensively and expect other drivers to do something unexpected.
   A5.4.4. Be extra cautious when approaching major roadways, intersections and areas where
   vehicles are entering and exiting the roadway. High traffic areas pose a greater risk to all
   drivers.
   A5.4.5. Don’t become complacent in familiar areas. Most accidents happen within 50 miles
   of your home; knowing the area is not an excuse for not paying attention to your
   surroundings.
A5.5. Weather and Road Conditions.
   A5.5.1. Changing weather conditions can degrade road conditions in a matter of seconds.
   A5.5.2. Road surfaces can have damaged areas; be prepared for them.
   A5.5.3. Use extra time to drive safely during inclement weather conditions and when
   roadways are damaged or under construction.
A5.6. Rules of the Road.
   A5.6.1. Pay attention to traffic signs and obey them. Traffic signs give drivers information
   to prepare for situations on the road ahead.
   A5.6.2. Follow posted speed limits. Speed limits are set for a reason.
   A5.6.3. Follow directional arrows in parking lots. Arrows are used in parking lots to control
   the flow of traffic and to make things safer for everyone.
A5.7. Use of Seat Belts: Seat belt use is MANDATORY for all drivers and passengers.
A5.8. Following these tips will greatly reduce the likelihood of being involved in an accident.
Also remember that fatigued drivers are more likely to be involved in an accident. Get the rest
that you need. Driving tired has the same effect as driving under the influence of alcohol; your
reaction times increase making it more difficult to cope with incidents on the road.
