BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            RAMSTEIN AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 32-9001
435TH AIR BASE WING
                                                                                         21 MARCH 2009
                                                                                 CIVIL ENGINEERING

                                                           REAL PROPERTY BUILDING MANAGER




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                          publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 435 CES/CEDH                                     Certified by: 435 CES/CED (Tammy Hanesworth)
Supersedes: RAMSTEINABI32-9001,                                                          Pages: 3
            8 November 1994


This publication implements AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management. This instruction establishes the
policies and procedures for the building manager program, including instructions for the appointment
and replacement of the manager. It applies to all organizations occupying real property facilities
managed by the 435th Air Base Wing. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located in AF Records Management System (AFRIMS): https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Specifies the procedures for litter control, para 5.5.1; grounds maintenance, para 5.5.2; and snow
removal, para 5.5.3.

Section A--Terms

1. Real Property.   Buildings, land, structures, and any real property installed equipment are attached.
2. Real Property Installed Equipment (RPIE):
   2.1. Those items of government owned or leased equipment permanently attached or an integral part
   of the property that aids in the function of the facility.
   2.2. Organizational property accounted for on an equipment authorization inventory detail (EAID)
   list (reference AFM 671, Volume 4, Part 1, Air Force Equipment System Policy and Procedures) and
   other technical equipment belonging to and accounted for by the using organization on a separate
   property account is not real property installed equipment.
 2                                                           RAMSTEINABI32-9001 21 MARCH 2009


Section B--Responsibilities

3. Unit Commanders. According to requirements in AFP 87-8, a responsible individual must be
appointed to oversee the utilization of each base building. The commander of the unit which has the
major part of a building will appoint a primary and an alternate building manager (officer, NCO, or
civilian) to represent the interests of the using organization and help Civil Engineering perform real
property management responsibilities. The commander will send a letter to the Real Property
Management Office and give the name, rank, organization, office symbol, duty phone, DEROS
(year/month), and home phone number of appointees. Changes in building managers will be sent in
writing to the Real Property Office 10 days prior to the desired change date. Commanders will be
notified of dates and times of building manager training (see para 4). Commanders will ensure
attendance of all personnel scheduled for this training.
4. Real Property Office. The Real Property Office will consolidate the data and make a list of
building managers. Copies of the list will be sent to the Security Police, Fire Department, and Base
Civil Engineering (BCE) service call desk for use in case of emergencies. The Real Property Office will
conduct periodic building manager training sessions. The key certificate file will be established,
maintained, and controlled by the Real Property Office.
5. Building Manager. The building manager, in cooperation with the occupants, is responsible for the
care, custody, and protection of the building and installed property. Building manager responsibilities
include the following:
     5.1. Sign for and manage the distribution of all keys to the building, including the replacement of
     lost keys. The keys must be accounted for at all times. Occupants must return the keys to the
     building manager when no longer required.
     5.2. Brief the occupants on their responsibilities for the care, custody, protection of the facility
     including installed equipment, and liability for loss and damage beyond fair wear and tear.
     5.3. Publish instructions to open and close the building during duty hours and for after duty hours
     admittance and use, including security measures to be observed.
     5.4. Encourage good housekeeping. Report unsatisfactory work of the custodial services contractor
     to the Civil Engineering Service and Contract Management Branch, 786 CES/CEMS. The statement
     of work, which lists the frequencies of cleaning and the areas to be cleaned, will be provided to each
     building manager by the BCE.
     5.5. Establish procedures to make sure grounds maintenance, snow removal, and daily litter control
     are accomplished within the area adjacent to their facility(ies), and extending halfway to the nearest
     facility on all sides. If there are no other facilities in the area, or if there is a dispute concerning
     areas boundaries, the 86 AW/CC will determine the area of responsibilities for the facility(ies) in
     question.
     5.5. 1 Litter control will be performed each duty day, regardless of weather. Litter control will
     include the removal of all debris, paper, bottles, cans, and other scrap items from grounds, gutters,
     parking areas, and wooded areas.
        5.5.2. Grounds maintenance will be performed at regular intervals, unless performed by a Civil
        Engineer administered contract. Grounds maintenance includes grass cutting, leaf raking,
        trimming of hedges, cultivation of flower beds, trimming of grass around pavements, and the
        removal of grass and weeds from joints in pavements.
RAMSTEINABI32-9001 21 MARCH 2009                                                                            3


       5.5.3. Sidewalks and steps will be shoveled and kept free of ice and snow at all times.
   5.6. Encourage utilities management and energy conservation. Establish policies on accurate
   thermostat setting and ensure all doors and windows are closed during the heating season, and lights,
   water, and heat are turned off when not required.
   5.7. Instruct building occupants not to move or remove fixtures such as water, heating, lighting,
   ventilation, air conditioning equipment, and associated hardware.
   5.8. Ensure compliance with the fire prevention directives (reference AFI 32-2001, The Fire
   Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program). Advise the BCE when a potential fire or safety
   hazard is found which cannot be corrected on the spot. Track all discrepancies to ensure corrective
   action is taken.
   5.9. Notify BCE immediately when emergencies occur. Describe the problem and what is being
   done to minimize property damage. Building managers should know the location and operation of
   master controls and valves so that utilities can be isolated if necessary, in an emergency.
   5.10. Conduct monthly inspections of the building and installed equipment. Pay particular attention
   to the structural condition of the doors, windows, lights, plumbing, heating, ventilation, and air
   conditioning equipment. Use AF Form 332, BCE Work Request, to advise engineering of routine
   maintenance and repair requirements.
   5.11. Ensure the building, rooms, and offices within the building are used for the purpose approved
   by the facilities board. Variations from the approved use must be reported to the Real Property
   Management Office. Report all vacant space to the Real Property Management Office.
   5.12. If the building is to be temporarily vacant, notify Security Police for routine security checks.
   5.13. Attend initial building manager training when assigned as building manager.
   5.14. Building managers will assure, by constant surveillance, occupants do not impose floor loads
   that might overstress the structure.

Section C--Termination

6. Vacancy Notification. The unit commander/building manager will notify the Real Property Office
in writing no later than 14 days prior to the date the building or space within the building is scheduled to
be permanently vacated. The building manager must also make an appointment with the Real Property
Office to jointly inspect the premises and return keys. The building manager will be relieved of further
responsibilities for the building when the inspection is successfully completed and the key count is
correct. The building must be clean and orderly when vacated.




                                              THOMAS F. WILSON, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
