BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         RAMSTEIN AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 21-501
RAMSTEIN AIR BASE
                                                                                   27 APRIL 2012

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                        TOOL, EQUIPMENT AND TECHNICAL
                                                           ORDER CONTROL PROCEDURES




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 86 MXG/CC                                                          Certified by: 86 MXG/CC
                                                                                (Col Scott T. Fike)
Supersedes: AFI21-101_86AWGM1, 10 June 2009                                              Pages: 13


This Ramstein Airbase Instruction is required by Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aircraft
and Equipment Maintenance Management, paragraph 10.2.1. It establishes procedures for the
control and management of tools/equipment used on the flight line and in aircraft/aerospace
equipment maintenance industrial areas. It provides tool and equipment inventory, inspection,
identification, and lost or missing tool/object procedures. Paragraph 1 of this instruction applies
to 86th Maintenance Group (MXG), 309th Airlift Squadron, Chievres Air Base, and 496th Air
Base Squadron, Moron Air Base. Paragraph 2 applies to all other personnel operating at
Ramstein Air Base to include depot teams, factory representatives, contracted field teams (CFT),
and temporary duty or deployed units Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major
Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Minor changes were made to this publication. Included is the realignment of the 86th Airlift
Wing and 435th Air Base Wing. Standardization of who can authorize the turnover of
Consolidated Tool Kit (CTK) and/or equipment has been clarified in paragraph 1.3.2. The
control of warranted tools has been extended and clarified in paragraph 1.8. The 180-day
 2                                                     RAMSTEINABI21-501 27 APRIL 2012


inspection requirement for CTK/tool inspections was changed to an annual inspection to match
AFI 21-101. The 180-day inspection for spill response kits was also changed to an annual
inspection. Master Inventory Listing (MIL) files are no longer required to be maintained.
1. TOOL/TOOL KIT CONTROL FOR 86 AW, 309 AS and 496 ABS.
     1.1. General Policy. Personal tools will not be used on the flight line, in aircraft or in
     aerospace equipment industrial areas. Only tools and equipment tracked in Tool
     Accountability System (TAS) are authorized for use in these areas.
        1.1.1. A Master Inventory Listing (MIL) will be kept with each dispatchable
        Consolidated Tool Kit (CTK) and dispatchable support equipment/special tool containing
        multiple pieces. The MIL is not required to be signed.
        1.1.2. For non-dispatchable CTKs, support equipment, and special tools, the MIL resides
        within TAS. A MIL is not required to be printed and signed for non-dispatchable items.
     1.2. TAS Program. Only the approved version of TAS will be used for accountability and
     control of tools and equipment, in accordance with (IAW) AFI 21-101, paragraph 10.4.1.
        1.2.1. Units must electronically backup all TAS programs to external media on a
        monthly basis.
        1.2.2. In the event TAS is not available, each work center will have a back-up tool
        accountability procedure in place that will not hinder the mission.
        1.2.3. Tools, technical orders, equipment, etc. that are loaded in TAS will have all
        inspections listed, along with applicable items, in accordance with specific item guidance.
        1.2.4. Units will use the mobility function of TAS as prescribed by Air Mobility
        Command (AMC) Supplement to AFI 21-101, paragraph 10.4.1.2.
     1.3. CTK/TOOL/CONSUMABLES ACCOUNTABILITY. Flight Chiefs, Flight Officers-
     in-Charge (OICs) and section Non-Commissioned Officers-in-Charge (NCOICs), through
     CTK custodians, are responsible for tool and equipment accountability and control (knowing
     where tools are and who has responsibility for them). Personnel who sign for tools or pieces
     of equipment remain accountable for those items until the items are returned to the tool room
     and accountability transfers back to the CTK custodian, through a representative or tool room
     employee. The following procedures apply:
        1.3.1. At no time will anyone sign in their own CTK/equipment. It will be signed in by a
        second party or work center supervisor.
        1.3.2. CTK and/or equipment may be turned-over at locations other than the support
        section during sortie surges or extensive maintenance. Only the on-duty production
        superintendent or above may approve these turnovers. Keep transfers to a minimum.
        However, when transfers do occur, the person relinquishing control of and the one
        assuming control of the CTK will perform an inventory of the CTK in the presence of an
        E-6 or above. Use an Air Force Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, to issue the
        CTK/equipment to the next person. The E-6 or above witnessing the transfer and both
        personnel (issuer and receiver) initial the hand receipt. The person relinquishing control
        of the CTK/equipment will ensure the hand receipt is immediately delivered to the
        Support Section. Support Section personnel will make the appropriate changes in TAS
RAMSTEINABI21-501 27 APRIL 2012                                                               3


     and Support Section will keep this hand receipt until the CTK/equipment returns to
     Support. These turnovers will be treated as if the CTKs were being turned in or signed
     out at the Support Section.
     1.3.3. The issue/turn-in of CTKs to the Support Section will include the CTK and the
     key. If a CTK folder is used for the CTK, it will also be accountable. The MXG Form
     140, Composite Tool Kit (CTK) Inventory and Control Log (sign in/out form), will be
     used for CTKs not transported in and out of the Support Section. This form will be
     provided by the CTK custodians and used to sign in and out CTKs by the users. When
     the old form is full, a new form will be placed in the CTK binder and the old form will be
     maintained in the Support Section until at least three entries are created on the new form.
     1.3.4. All contents of non-dispatchable CTKs will be listed in TAS. All contents of
     dispatchable CTKs, equipment, or tools with multiple pieces will be listed in TAS and on
     the MIL.
     1.3.5. All CTKs will have the keys and CTK folder (if applicable) signed in and out of
     TAS as one, symbolizing a full CTK. If folders are used, they will be accounted for like
     any other tool (e.g. designated shadowed location if in a CTK/on the MIL, or designated
     location in a Support Section that meets accountability requirements).
     1.3.6. Engine blade blending blue dye will be controlled in TAS in the same manner as
     dispatchable Hazardous Material (HAZMAT) items.
     1.3.7. CTK procedures also apply to tools/equipment outside the Support Section (e.g.
     trailers, vehicles, CTKs sub-located to different work centers, on floor, etc).
        1.3.7.1. The keys and the CTK folder (if applicable) will be signed in and out of the
        TAS as one, symbolizing a full CTK. When signing out through TAS, the individual
        will sign out the whole CTK and receive the folder (if applicable). The MXG Form
        140 will be used to sign open and close CTKs as described in paragraph 1.3.3.
        1.3.7.2. Owners are responsible for inspections and replacement of tools for
        tools/CTKs that are permanently sub-located to another organization/work center. It
        is the owning Support Section’s responsibility to control these items in TAS and to
        issue and receive them on a daily basis.
     1.3.8. Spill Recovery Units, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Trailers, and
     Hazardous Waste Accumulation points that contain safety/Personnel Protective
     Equipment will be marked with the owning squadron designation (86 MXS, 86 AMXS,
     etc.) and one of the following: office symbol, accumulation site, or trailer number. An
     equipment content listing will be kept with spill kits and consumed items will be
     documented. All kits will be sealed and inventoried/inspected for serviceability annually.
     This inspection will be documented.
     1.3.9. To allow continued use of personal issue equipment when an individual
     accomplishes a permanent change of station (PCS) or permanent change of assignment
     (PCA), identify personal issue equipment (e.g., ear defenders, reflective belts, etc.) with
     minimum first initial, last name, and last four of the individual’s Social Security Number
     (SSN). The individual’s employee number may be used in lieu of the last four of the
     individuals SSN. Markings are not required on personally issued clothing. Work center
4                                                   RAMSTEINABI21-501 27 APRIL 2012


      personal protective equipment (PPE) not assigned to a CTK and not dispatched to the
      flight line will be marked with squadron and office symbol and will have a designated
      location for accountability. Equipment previously identified with last name, unit, and
      employee number does not need to be re-etched or replaced solely to comply with new
      marking requirements.
      1.3.10. Each Support Section will have an entry control roster listing personnel
      authorized for entry without an escort. This letter will be approved, as a minimum, by
      the NCOIC of Support Section. Quality Assurance (QA) inspectors are authorized
      unescorted entry into CTK controlled areas to perform required inspections.
      1.3.11. The markings and shadow location for tools no longer required will be removed
      to reflect the tool/item is no longer considered part of the CTK. Cutouts will be plugged
      to illustrate that no items are missing and will be secured to prevent loss and potential
      Foreign Objects (FO) entering these areas. Shadowing/outlining of permanently removed
      tools will be painted over or thoroughly marked over. For permanently removed tools,
      TAS will be updated to show deletion. For dispatchable CTKs, equipment, or tools with
      multiple pieces, a new MIL will be printed.
      1.3.12. Consumable/expendable hand tools (razor blades, acid brushes, wire brushes,
      plastic pin insertion/extraction tools, syringes, sanding/cutting and wire brush
      attachments) that are maintained in a CTK will be listed on the Master Inventory List.
      Dispatchable consumable/expendable hand tools that are not maintained in a CTK will be
      accounted for at the completion of each maintenance task.
    1.4. CTK LAYOUT/SETUP. Proper marking and layout of CTKs is critical to
    accountability and tool control. CTKs will be laid out/set up as follows:
      1.4.1. The custodian will ensure all toolboxes/equipment are etched/permanently marked
      with an Equipment Identification Designator (EID). Etchings and/or markings must be
      clear and legible. The first four digits are contained in Attachment 2. The unit
      establishes the remaining five characters IAW AFI 21-101, paragraph 10.5.
      1.4.2. CTK keys, locks, and tie down straps, if not permanently attached, are considered
      part of the CTK and must be marked with EID and identified on the MIL. All items will
      be identified on the MIL.
      1.4.3. Flight line dispatchable CTKs and equipment items will have reflector tape or
      reflective material installed in order to show the size and shape of the item during
      reduced visibility. The item will be visible from all angles.
      1.4.4. Outlines for hanging items will be marked with the same intent as shadowing.
      1.4.5. Tools inside a CTK may be color coded to allow for easy identification. All items
      belonging to a CTK must be of the same color. CTK markings will not duplicate any
      color used in the work section. Color coded tools still require an EID.
      1.4.6. All flight line dispatchable CTKs (toolboxes) will contain a Foreign Object
      Damage (FOD) container specifically marked with the letters "FOD" in contrasting
      colors. The container will not be a plastic bag. If the container is not permanently
      attached it will be marked with CTK EID and will be listed on the CTK’s MIL. Contents
      of FOD containers will be properly disposed of prior to turn-in. CTKs that are restricted
RAMSTEINABI21-501 27 APRIL 2012                                                              5


     to in-shop use only are not required to have FOD containers; however, all CTKs will be
     kept free of FOD at all times.
  1.5. INSPECTIONS. Thorough inspections/inventories are vital to tool accountability and
  maintaining serviceability of tools/equipment. The following procedures/requirements
  apply:
     1.5.1. Flight Chiefs and OICs will ensure CTKs, spare tool bins (see paragraph 1.5.4.),
     HAZMAT Lockers, and Individual Issue Bins (IIB) will be inspected annually. The
     annual inspection will be documented in TAS. At a minimum, the following items will
     be inspected:
        1.5.1.1. Legibility of etchings and required markings. Double etchings (multiple
        different etchings) are not authorized. Spare tools will have no etchings/markings
        until put into service. If a tool is removed from a CTK and will be used as a spare
        tool, then all etchings/markings will be removed as long as it is in spare tool status.
        1.5.1.2. Condition of tools.
        1.5.1.3. Existence of corrosion.
        1.5.1.4. Presence of any foreign objects.
        1.5.1.5. Condition/currency of any tech data in the CTK.
        1.5.1.6. MIL will be checked against the CTK/dispatchable equipment MIL and TAS
        to ensure accuracy.
        1.5.1.7. Inspect tool/equipment IAW specific Technical Order (TO)
        1.5.1.8. Check for overdue calibration.
        1.5.1.9. Ensure all sets contain the proper number of items (as identified on
        container).
        1.5.1.10. In addition to the prior to use inspection, the explosion-proof lanterns and
        extension lights will be inspected per T.O. 35F5-1-2, Explosive-Proof Lanterns and
        Extension Light Assemblies, paragraph 1-3.
        1.5.1.11. Shelf-life dates.
        1.5.1.12. Containers or cabinet for damage or leakage.
     1.5.2. For sub-located CTKs, the Support Section or designated CTK custodian is
     responsible for all major inspections.
     1.5.3. Infrequently used CTK/kits and CTK/kits placed in storage.
        1.5.3.1. Storage is defined as a CTK not projected for use within the standard
        inspection cycle.
        1.5.3.2. Infrequently used CTK/kits or CTK/kits placed in storage can be sealed so
        that the CTK/kit cannot be opened without breaking the seal (computer label sticker,
        lead seal, etc.). Annotate the seal with the signature of the individual performing the
        tool count, date completed, and next inventory date (not to exceed the annual
        inspection date). Inspection criteria will be the same as defined in paragraphs 1.5.1.1
        through 1.5.1.12. of this instruction.
6                                                    RAMSTEINABI21-501 27 APRIL 2012


       1.5.4. Flight Chiefs and OICs will ensure spare tools are inventoried annually and
       tracked in TAS as a CTK (SPARE).
    1.6. MOBILITY TOOLS (Accountability, Control, and Inspection). Units will use the
    mobility function of TAS as prescribed by AMC Supplement to AFI 21-101, paragraph
    10.4.1.2.
       1.6.1. Mobility CTKs will receive annual inspections and once completed, will be sealed
       so that the CTK cannot be opened without breaking the seal (computer label sticker, lead
       seal, etc.). Annotate the seal (if possible) or tag with the signature of the individual
       performing the tool count/inspection, date c/w, and next inventory date (not to exceed 1
       year). Inspection criteria will be the same as defined in paragraph 1.5.1.1 through
       1.5.1.12 of this instruction and tracked in TAS. When the CTK is deployed and the seal
       broken, the tools will revert back to the annual inspection cycle.
       1.6.2. Mobility CTKs should only be used for actual or simulated deployments. The
       deployed custodian will be responsible for all CTKs at the deployed site. The Support
       Section or deployed section supervisor will provide a secure area for storing mobility
       CTKs.
    1.7. SPECIAL PURPOSE TOOLS. IAW AFI 21-101 paragraph 10.2.1.14., units will
    develop procedures for control of Crashed, Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
    (CDDAR) equipment permanently stored/located in trailers or vehicles.          CDDAR
    tools/equipment will be properly marked and controlled in TAS. Ensure these items are
    inspected IAW all applicable Technical Orders, manuals, Air Force Instructions and this
    instruction, to include items stored and or located in vehicles.
    1.8. WARRANTED TOOL MANAGEMENT. IAW AFI 21-101, paragraph 10.2.1.3.,
    warranted tool management procedures are as follows:
       1.8.1. Warranted tools that are assigned to a CTK will be controlled IAW AFI 21-101
       and this guidance.
       1.8.2. Warranted tools not assigned to a CTK will be controlled as spare tools IAW AFI
       21-101 and this guidance.
       1.8.3. Broken warranty tools.
          1.8.3.1. Broken warranty tools will be removed from service IAW paragraph 1.10 of
          this Operation Instuction (OI).
          1.8.3.2. Warranty tools will be segregated from non-warranty tools and tracked by
          the CTK custodian to ensure proper identification and control.
    1.9. LOST TOOL PROCEDURES. IAW AFI 21-101, paragraph 10.8., 86 AW lost tool
    procedures are as follows:
       1.9.1. The individual that discovers a missing tool will notify the expediter/production
       superintendent or equivalent who in turn will immediately notify the Operations Officer,
       Flight OIC/Chief, Support Section, Maintenance Operation Control (MOC) (86 AW
       MOC will notify 721 AMXS MOC for any lost tools that could possibly have an impact
       on 721 AMXS operations or ramp), and QA. Upon notification of a lost tool/item, the
       affected production superintendent will initiate a thorough search.               If an
RAMSTEINABI21-501 27 APRIL 2012                                                              7


     aircraft/equipment is involved and the search has not resulted in the recovery of the lost
     tool within 1 hour, contact an impound authority for aircraft/equipment impoundment
     decision. Impoundment for lost tools will be at the discretion of the impound authority.
     If the suspected lost tool is on a taxiing or flying aircraft, immediately notify MOC to
     initiate actions for potential aircraft recall.
     1.9.2. The MXG Form 145, Lost Tool/Object Report, must be used to document all lost
     tools. This form will be initiated by the person with custodial responsibility of the lost
     tool within 1 hour of initial identification that a tool is lost. QA will assign a local
     control number, which will be annotated on the upper right-hand corner of the form.
     Once QA issues a control number, the MXG Form 145 must be completed even if the
     tool has been found.
     1.9.3. The lost tool form must be routed through proper channels within 3 duty days and
     provided to QA.
     1.9.4. QA will review the completed form for accuracy and provide the original to the
     86th Airlift Wing (AW) FOD Monitor. A copy will be maintained by the CTK
     custodian/responsible authority of item and kept for 1 year. When the lost tool is found,
     the respective unit will inform QA who will in-turn inform the 86 AW FOD Monitor.
     1.9.5. The tool room shift supervisor and the individual who signed for the CTK will
     ensure the missing tool is annotated on the MIL for dispatchable CTKs, equipment, or
     tools with multiple pieces and updated in TAS.
  1.10. BROKEN TOOLS. In order to standardize and clarify broken tool procedures, the
  following guidance will be followed:
     1.10.1. Unserviceable/removed tools. The user will account for all pieces of the broken
     tool and take them to the CTK custodian or Support Section. If the tool cannot be
     immediately replaced, the CTK custodian or Support Section personnel will document
     the MIL for dispatchable CTKs, equipment, or tools with multiple pieces and update
     TAS. As a minimum, annotate the MIL with “B/R” (broken and removed), the date
     broken, and employee number.
     1.10.2. For deployments, unserviceable/removed tools will be replaced immediately
     upon reconstitution after deployments. Any tools that cannot be replaced during
     deployments will be documented on the MIL as described in paragraph 1.10.1. Damaged
     tools will be annotated in the MIL. TAS annotations will be done during reconstitution
     phases.
     1.10.3. Serviceable damaged tools. When a tool is damaged but can still perform its
     designed function, the tool may be retained. Tool serviceability will be determined by
     appropriate technical orders or manufacturers guidance/manuals. Unsafe tools will NOT
     be used. At a minimum, the missing pieces/components of damaged tools will be
     documented on the MIL for dispatchable CTKs, equipment, or tools with multiple pieces
     and in TAS; also annotate the date damaged and employee number.
  1.11. TOOL REPLACEMENT. The following tool replacement procedures will be
  followed in order to establish tool procurement.
 8                                                      RAMSTEINABI21-501 27 APRIL 2012


        1.11.1. No more than three individuals per work center will be authorized to procure
        tools.
        1.11.2. Broken/unserviceable tools will not be stored in the same drawers as
        spare/serviceable tools.
     1.12. RAG CONTROL PROCEDURES. The following procedures will be followed in
     order to prevent FOD and ensure proper control/accountability of rags:
        1.12.1. Positive accountability of rags and rag control is required. Marking or
        identifying each rag with a CTK number is not necessary. To ensure standardization,
        rags will be uniform in size and color and will be issued in groups of 5 each in a
        prepackaged container. The container will be marked with number of items contained.
        The container will be counted as one of the items. Mark container with 9-digit EID.
        1.12.2. An inventory will be conducted upon receipt of rags from a contracted cleaning
        service.
        1.12.3. Operational/dispatchable rags will be inventoried at every shift turnover.
        1.12.4. Bulk stored rags (those not in Support Section for dispatch or operational use)
        will be secured for control and be loaded in TAS as a spare tool for accountability.
     1.13. TECHNICAL ORDER CONTROL PROCEDURES. Technical orders must be
     accounted for as any other tool or piece of equipment to prevent FOD and lost assets.
        1.13.1. Technical orders that may be dispatched to the flight line will be controlled in
        TAS and meet all of the requirements established by this instruction.
        1.13.2. Technical orders that will not be dispatched to the flight line are not required to
        be loaded in TAS.
2. OTHER UNITS AT RAMSTEIN AB, TO INCLUDE DEPOT TEAMS, FACTORY
REPRESENTATIVES, CONTRACTED FIELD TEAMS (CFT), AND TDY OR
DEPLOYED UNITS TOOL/TOOL KIT CONTROL. IAW AFI 21-101, paragraph
10.2.1.12., MXG/CC will establish procedures for depot teams, factory representatives, and
CFTs when working on equipment within the unit. The following procedures apply to anyone
that brings tools onto the flight line to perform maintenance on aircraft, equipment, or vehicles or
anyone that performs maintenance on equipment or vehicles that have the potential of entering
the flight line.
     2.1. Develop guidance to ensure positive tool and equipment control.
        2.1.1. Ensure guidance contains lost tool procedures. At minimum, the procedures will
        ensure MOC is notified (721 AMXS MOC will be notified for tools lost on Ramp 5 while
        86 AW MOC will be notified for tools lost on all other ramps and taxiways).
        2.1.2. Ensure guidance directs 86 AW FOD monitor to be notified of lost tool and the
        lost tool report is turned in within 3 days of incident.
     2.2. When using 86 MXG assigned tools/equipment, comply with all requirements of this
     instruction.
     2.3. When using tools not assigned to 86 MXG, comply with the minimum requirements
     listed below.
RAMSTEINABI21-501 27 APRIL 2012                                                                9


   2.4. Have a listing (or MIL equivalent) of each CTK/kit identifying components.
   2.5. Secure CTK/equipment when left unattended.
   2.6. Inventory each CTK/kit at the beginning and end of each shift, as well as at the
   completion of each maintenance task.
   2.7. Personal tools will not be used on the flight line, in aircraft or in aerospace equipment
   industrial areas.
3. AIRCREW & LIFE SUPPORT TOOL/TOOL KIT CONTROL. Tools used on the
aircraft or the flight line by the 37 Airlift Squadron and the 86th Operations Support Squadron
will be included in a CTK, properly etched per Attachment 2 and positively controlled. The
owning organizations will draft tool control/accountability procedures which will include
accounting for each CTK at the beginning and end of each flight. If a CTK is not sealed, an
inventory of said CTK will be accomplished at the beginning and end of each flight, as well as at
the completion of each maintenance task.




                                            CHARLES K. HYDE, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
 10                                                  RAMSTEINABI21-501 27 APRIL 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 12 April 2010
AFI 21-101, AMC Supplement(USAFE), Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 01
January 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
T.O. 32-1-101, Use and Care of Hand Tools and Measuring Tools, 14 September 2007
T.O. 35F5-1-2, Explosive-Proof Lanterns and Extension Light Assemblies, 11 August 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
MXG Form 140, Composite Tool Kit (CTK) Inventory and Control Log, 26 February 2007
MXG Form 145, Lost Tool/Object Report, 26 February 2007
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, 1 July 1987

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB—Air Base
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Air Force Instruction
AFM—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AS—Airlift Squadron
AMU—Aircraft Maintenance Unit
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AW—Airlift Wing
CDDAR—Crashed, Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
CFT—Contracted Field Teams
CTK—Consolidated Tool Kit
EID—Equipment Identification Designator
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
FO—Foreign Object
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
RAMSTEINABI21-501 27 APRIL 2012            11


HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
IAW—In Accordance With
IIB—Individual Issue Bins
MIL—Master Inventory Listing
MXG—Maintenance Group
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
NCOIC—Non Commissioned Officer in Charge
OI—Operating Instruction
OIC—Officer in Charge
PCA—Permenant Change of Assignment
PCS—Permenant Change of Station
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
QA—Quality Assurance
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SSN—Social Security Number
TAS—Tool Accountability System
TDY—Temporary Duty
TO—Technical Order
 12                                                  RAMSTEINABI21-501 27 APRIL 2012


                                        Attachment 2
                 WORLDWIDE (WW) IDENTIFICATION (ID) LISTING


The following table shows the current list of WWID for units assigned to Ramstein Air Base.
The first two characters (RF) identify Ramstein Air Base. The third character of the WWID
identifies the UNIT and the fourth identifies the SECTION/WORK CENTER. The
section/work center establishes the remaining five characters (any combination of
numbers/letters) for CTKs, tools, and dispatchable equipment identification.

                                  86th Airlift Wing Units

                              86th Maintenance Group Units

86th Maintenance Squadron
      Maintenance Flight            RF8A
      Fabrication                   RF8F
      Propulsion                    RF8P
      Accessories                   RF8C
      TMDE                          RF8D
      AGE                           RF8G
      Transit Alert                 RF8T

86th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
      37th Aircraft Maintenance Unit
      Support Section           RF3M
      ISO                       RF8M

       76th Aircraft Maintenance Unit
       Maintenance               RF7M

86th Maintenance Operations Squadron
      MTF                       RFTR

86th Maintenance Group Quality Assurance
      QA                        RF8Q


                                  86th Operations Group Units

37th Airlift Squadron
      Loadmasters (Aircrew)         RF3D

76th Airlift Squadron
      Flight engineers              RF7D
RAMSTEINABI21-501 27 APRIL 2012                               13


86th Operations Support Section
      Life Support              RF3L

DET 1 309 AS
      Maintenance/ TA             RF8U
      Support                     RF8S


                             86th Logistics Readiness Group

86th Materiel Maintenance Squadron
      Armament                  RFMW

86th Vehicle Readiness Squadron
      Vehicle Maintenance         RF8V
                                  (non-TAS ID 101VM)
86th Logistics Readiness Squadron
      Fuels Compliance            RF8L
      Aerial Delivery Section     RF8Z

86th Munitions Squadron
      Munitions                   RF8W
                                  RF8R


                              86th Mission Support Group

86th Communications Squadron
      Infrastructure Branch       RF4I
      Customer Support Branch     RF4S
      Airfield Systems            RF4A
      Transmissions Systems       RF4T

                             Ramstein Air Base Tenant Units


721st Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
       Support Section           RFAM

721st Aerial Port Squadron
       Vehicle Maintenance        RFAV

DET 1 AETC                        RFTR
