BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         RAMSTEIN AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 10-505
RAMSTEIN AIR BASE
                                                                                28 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                        Operations

                                                      GEOGRAPHICALLY SEPARATED UNIT
                                                                AND TENANT SUPPORT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 86 AW/ XP                                                            Certified by: 86 AW/XP
                                                                                   (Mr. M. Taylor)
                                                                                         Pages: 13


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-5, Basing 26 Nov 93 and United
States Air Force Europe (USAFE) Instruction 10-505, Geographically Separated Unit and
Tenant Support. It establishes procedures and specific responsibilities for the beddown support
of geographically separated units (GSUs) and tenant units to ensure consistent and successful
support of military personnel, employees and family members. It describes command policy and
processes to obtain available support and establishes baseline responsibilities. This instruction is
applicable to 86th Airlift Wing (86 AW) units providing support to GSUs and tenant unitsRefer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. General.
   1.1. The 86 AW/CC ensures GSU and tenant unit personnel and their dependent family
   members are adequately supported.
   1.2. For the purpose of this instruction, a GSU is a USAFE unit that is not located on its
   parent unit installation. GSUs may be supported by the unit’s parent wing or another
   Designated Support Wing (DSW) such as the 86 AW. Note: some USAFE GSUs exist solely
   to support non-USAFE units. Non-USAFE units include North Atlantic Treaty Organization
 2                                                  RAMSTEINABI10-505 28 AUGUST 2012


     (NATO) units (independent of whether the Air Force (AF) is assigned Administrative Agent
     (AA) for the unit), United States European Command (USEUCOM) activities (independent
     of whether the AF is assigned Executive Agent for the activity), non-USAFE AF activities,
     non-AF Department of Defense (DoD) activities, non-DoD US Government activities, and
     other non-US (i.e., international) activities.
2. Policy.
     2.1. At the discretion of the 86 AW/CC, short-term support may be provided to meet
     emergent US personnel (e.g., DoD, Department of Justice (DoJ), Department of State (DoS)
     requirements). This support should be finite and provided only on a reimbursable basis.
     2.2. The 86 AW will not provide administrative support to Airmen assigned to units
     receiving AA support from another service.
     2.3. Support to non-USAFE units/personnel. The 86 AW may provide support to non-
     USAFE units (e.g., Air Mobility Command (AMC), Air Combat Command (ACC), Air
     Force Space Command (AFSPC)) at the discretion of the wing commander (with
     Headquarters (HQ) USAFE/A8Z notification) or at the direction of HQ USAFE A5/8/9.
        2.3.1. When supporting a non-USAFE unit which requires reimbursement, 86 AW/XP
        will ensure a support agreement, Inter Service Support Agreement (ISSA) or international
        agreement is in place prior to providing support. The agreement must clearly stipulate
        that all reimbursable costs incurred by the 86 AW will be paid by the supported unit, in
        accordance with (IAW) DoDI 4000.19 and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 25-201, Support
        Agreements Procedures. Failure to pay for services provided will result in withholding
        or removal of those services. If only non-reimbursable resources are being provided,
        then a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) or Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
        will suffice. MOAs/MOUs are typically "non-reimbursable" agreements between two
        organizations that normally don’t require approval outside of those organizations. The 86
        AW/XP only deals with beddown/mission increases that will drive a reimbursable bill
        (comm, power, infrastructure, equipment, services, manpower, unique emergency
        response support, etc.) and not MOAs/MOUs.
        2.3.2. The 86 AW will conduct routine reviews of ISSAs with non-USAFE units to
        ensure the support remains properly documented and is reimbursed IAW DoDI 4000.19,
        AFI 25-201 and Air Force Instructions 65-601 V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures.
     2.4. Any organization or activity desiring to move onto a USAFE installation requires
     Commander United States Air Force Europe (COMUSAFE) approval. This requirement
     applies also to existing agencies planning a significant mission increase that will drive
     increased facility and/or operating support requirements.
        2.4.1. All requests for beddown actions on an 86 AW’s installation will first be routed
        through 86 AW/XP who will coordinate with HQ USAFE A5/8/9 for COMUSAFE
        approval prior to submission to the Air Staff. A5/8/9 will request that the wing
        conduct/submit an assessment/recommendation to USAFE/A8Z for all beddown requests
        prior to staffing to COMUSAFE.
        2.4.2. 86 AW/XP will ensure Headquarters AF (HAF)/A8P strategic basing processes
        are followed prior to allowing non-USAFE units to beddown.
RAMSTEINABI10-505 28 AUGUST 2012                                                             3


      2.4.3. If directed by HQ USAFE, a MOA or MOU between the sponsoring command
      and USAFE will be concluded, prior to the conclusion of the ISSA.
3. Procedures.
   3.1. 86 AW’s leadership shall determine the best method for meeting the GSU’s support
   requirements. All agreements must comply with DoD/AF guidance and have accurate
   accountability of all GSU-related funding expenditures and manpower. Refer to DoDI 4000-
   19 to document support relationships between a USAFE DSW and a non-AF GSU
   Receiver. Use AFI 25-201 to document support relationships between a DSW and an AF
   GSU Receiver.
   3.2. Support to GSUs and tenant units will generally be provided by the DSW located closest
   to the GSU in terms of geography or travel time, even if that DSW is not the GSU’s parent
   wing. Typically, the DSW providing the majority of support will have the GSU’s facilities
   on its real property records and the requirement on their unit manning document (UMD). A
   GSU’s parent wing may determine that the DSW should be the primary support provider for
   the GSU. In some cases, DSWs that are not the GSU’s parent wing will provide support for
   GSUs based on negotiated support agreements between the DSW and the GSU’s leadership
   or parent unit.
      3.2.1. MOAs and/or ISSAs between USAFE organizations are not required, unless the
      agreement is needed to document services that are being provided above and beyond the
      wing’s current financial and manpower capabilities. In these cases, since reimbursement
      for services is not required, MOUs shall provide sufficient documentation for future
      Program Objective Memorandums (POM) and requests for increased manpower.
      3.2.2. Commanders must plan for the inclusion of their assigned GSUs and non-USAFE
      units when considering specific activities: deployment-specific; drinking water,
      Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health (ESOH) support; anti-terrorism
      programs; Operations Security; and incident management.
   3.3. In most cases the full-range of support activities offered at DSWs cannot be offered at
   all GSUs. As a result of the limitations inherent with being geographically separated, AF
   members at GSUs are entitled to have Quality-of-Life (QoL) concerns addressed by the
   designated support DSW or unit.
   3.4. Each NATO unit with assigned US personnel where the AF is the Administrative Agent
   (AA) will be assigned a USAFE DSW. If the unit considers 86 AW DSW support
   unresponsive or inadequate, it should coordinate with the supporting unit. If coordination
   with the supporting unit does not satisfy the unit’s needs, it should contact 86 AW/XP for
   resolution.
      3.4.1. Support (e.g., Demand Reduction, Contingency Exercise Deployment orders,
      deployment personnel support) is provided to NATO-assigned AF personnel by
      Personnel Accounting Symbol (PAS) Code. The first two digits of the PASCODE
      designate which Force Support Squadron (FSS) provides personnel support. Finance and
      accounting support is provided based on the AF member’s assigned Accounting and
      Disbursing Symbol Number (ADSN).
4                                                  RAMSTEINABI10-505 28 AUGUST 2012


       3.4.2. DSWs are tasked to provide deployment support for AF personnel assigned to
       NATO units and should contact supported units to ensure adequately functioning
       processes are in place. Since FSSs are not equipped to provide deployment support for
       NATO personnel under their administrative control, deployment support must come from
       the supporting DSW. Deployment support may also be required for non-AF US
       personnel assigned to NATO units for which the AF is designated as the NATO AA.
           3.4.2.1. USAFE DSWs will process AF military personnel and Department of Air
           Force civilians assigned to NATO billets and provide the support necessary to deploy
           them to a combat area in accordance with AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and
           Execution.
           3.4.2.2. Deployment processors (e.g., supply, civil engineering, medical and security
           forces) will provide deployment equipment, deployment medical care and training
           upon presentation of a valid DoD ID card, NATO travel orders, tasking letter/task list
           from NATO Headquarters, or a NATO Command. Deploying NATO-billeted
           personnel need to meet all of the pre-deployment and post-deployment requirements
           listed in AFI 10-403. All deploying AF personnel in NATO billets will initiate pre-
           deployment processing through the supporting DSW’s Installation Personnel
           Readiness (IPR). This will ensure all DoD/AF policies and requirements are
           satisfied. The Airman and Family Readiness Centers’ Readiness Program will ensure
           that members and families are aware of all support services available throughout the
           deployment cycle.
           3.4.2.3. Deployment-related expenses may qualify for contingency funding and
           should be appropriately coded for reimbursement. Units preparing orders for travel to
           the DSWs for deployment preparation should ensure proper contingency accounting.
           Any funding questions should be addressed with the base comptroller.
           Comprehensive accounting of all expenditures in support of these deployment-related
           requirements must be recorded. Any manpower impact from this support to personnel
           in NATO billets needs to be documented by the DSW manpower offices and offset
           from within existing DSW manpower funding as priorities dictate.
    3.5. USAFE units shall provide support to non-USAFE AF personnel and other command
    sites in the USAFE area of responsibility (AOR) when collocated on an AF base or as
    assigned by European Command (EUCOM). Support will be documented in an ISSA and all
    reimbursable support will be recouped IAW AFI 25-201 and AFI 65-601. Non-USAFE AF
    personnel and other command sites should first seek support from their own parent command
    or AA before seeking support from USAFE.
       3.5.1. DSWs should be prepared to provide AF service-specific support not covered
       under AA agreements through ISSAs, MOUs, or MOAs. This support can include but is
       not limited to AF personnel records management, budget, training (including AF-specific
       training, weapons training, nuclear, biological and chemical warfare training), medical
       and dental, safety, command lines, demand reduction, leave and temporary duty
       processing, and deployment issues. The 86 AW will assist other command activity
       personnel with DSW support issues related to housing, finance, contracting, postal, and
       permanent change of station, including related legal issues.
RAMSTEINABI10-505 28 AUGUST 2012                                                               5


4. Responsibilities.
   4.1. 86 AW/CC will:
       4.1.1. Ensure all supported GSUs have adequate mission support, quality of life (QoL),
       and security to sustain and enhance morale.
       4.1.2. Fully integrate GSU and tenant units in the process of overall operational planning
       to include consideration of not only the actual deployment of forces, but also the
       employment mission, expeditionary organization structure, command relationships, the
       reception of forces, pre-positioning strategies, host nation support, information systems,
       forward basing, en route infrastructure, and how the GSUs and tenant units will be
       supported through the entire operations planning and execution process.
       4.1.3. Provide deployment preparation support to their respective GSUs. Preparation for
       movement can include (but is not limited to): review of personal service records and
       provide legal assistance and legal readiness services; medical processing to include
       updating inoculations; receipt of theater-specific organizational clothing and equipment;
       theater-specific cultural or environmental protection training; warrior skills,
       expeditionary combat skills, and special training; and weapons training.
       4.1.4. Ensure first-term Airmen assigned to supported GSUs are briefed by the First
       Term Airmen Center (FTAC) within 60 days of assignment.
       4.1.5. Ensure GSU personnel are included in all award and recognition programs, either
       through their DSW or parent units.
       4.1.6. Include GSU issues and requirements in Wing Master Planning or other applicable
       processes.
       4.1.7. Exercise court-martial jurisdiction over members of tenant units or Air Force
       Elements, whether designated as a unit or not, which are attached to the 86 AW as host
       command IAW AFI 51-201, paragraph 2.4.
   4.2. 86 AW/CVI will:
       4.2.1. Ensure wing exercise programs include the leadership from GSUs, wing annexes,
       AA-assigned NATO units, minor installations, support sites, and detached activities.
       Exercise evaluation teams, Inspectors General or other exercise management agencies
       representing GSUs should be involved when determining the frequency and scope of the
       exercise program. USAFE requires that GSUs participate in their supporting wing’s
       exercise program to the maximum extent possible.
   4.3. 86 AW/XP will:
       4.3.1. Coordinate required GSU and tenant unit support. Units requesting beddown support
       will complete Attachment 2 and send request to 86AW.gsusupportoffice@ramstein.af.mil.
       4.3.2. Develop and maintain programs to determine if wing can fully support beddown
       requests.
       4.3.3. Ensure Headquarters AF (HAF)/A8P strategic basing processes are followed prior
       to allowing non-USAFE units to beddown.
6                                                  RAMSTEINABI10-505 28 AUGUST 2012


       4.3.4. Staff new beddown requests or significant increases in the size of existing tenants
       for COMUSAFE approval.
       4.3.5. Ensure requests include an impact assessment/recommendation from the
       installation commander before processing for COMUSAFE’s approval.
       4.3.6. Coordinate COMUSAFE approval through USAFE/A8ZC.
       4.3.7. Notify HQ USAFE/A8Z of any site surveys or requests from non-USAFE unit
       beddowns on wing facilities or any significant increase in the manpower or footprint of
       an existing non-USAFE tenant unit.
       4.3.8. Resolve and coordinate support issues that cannot be resolved through normal
       functional channels.
       4.3.9. Notify HQ USAFE/A8Z of any proposed USAFE organizational changes
       including additions, deletions, and significant modifications of GSUs.
    4.4. 86 AW Group/CCs and Subject Matter Experts (SMEs)/Functionals will:
       4.4.1. When required, elevate appropriate GSU issues to USAFE functional
       representatives for resolution.
       4.4.2. Ensure appropriate wing representatives regularly visit and communicate with the
       GSUs and the GSU support function to address support requirements.
       4.4.3. Ensure GSU and tenant unit issues and requirements are included in appropriate
       functional boards and committees (e.g., Financial Management Board, Community
       Action Information Board, Facilities Utilization Board, and Quarterly Awards).
       4.4.4. Coordinate issues, funding and manpower through the wing GSU support
       function.
       4.4.5. Ensure base operations contract scope documents and contracts are modified for
       initial, increase, decrease, and termination of GSU support requirements.
       4.4.6. Program for manpower/funding to adequately support and sustain assigned GSUs.
    4.5. 86 AW Support Agreement Managers (SAMs) will:
       4.5.1. Conduct annual reviews of ISSAs with non-USAFE units to ensure the support
       remains properly documented and is reimbursed IAW DoDI 4000.19, AFI 25-201 and
       AFI 65-601 V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures.
       4.5.2. Ensure comprehensive triennial reviews are conducted for all inter-service, intra-
       service, and interagency support agreements. Comprehensive reviews will include a
       complete review by each Functional Area Agreement Coordinator and Resource Advisor
       whose unit provides support in a specific support agreement, as well as a complete
       manpower, comptroller and legal review for every support agreement.
       4.5.3. Ensure annual macro-level support agreements reviews are conducted in
       conjunction with the required wing comptroller-conducted annual support agreement
       budget review. Additionally, ensure the macro-level review includes contacting the
       receiver POC and determining if scope of provided support has increased or decreased
       and that the support relationship as documented in the ISSA is current and accurate.
RAMSTEINABI10-505 28 AUGUST 2012                                                           7


     4.5.4. Accomplish the appropriate support agreement after the MOA/MOU with the
     sponsoring command has been completed at HQ USAFE if command-command
     MOA/MOU was directed by HQ USAFE.
     4.5.5. Work directly with the wing GSU support function to determine the appropriate
     level of GSU support requirements.
     4.5.6. Accomplish an appropriate support agreement after the MOA/MOU with the
     sponsoring command has been completed at USAFE and an approved beddown request
     letter has been received from the wing GSU support function.
     4.5.7. At the request of the wing GSU support function, attend all wing-level beddown
     meetings.
  4.6. Installation Deployment Officer will:
     4.6.1. Be responsible for deployment planning and execution for supported GSUs.
     4.6.2. Conduct the required support activities to enable assigned GSUs to plan, prepare,
     and execute deployments IAW Combatant Commander requirements.
     4.6.3. Document deployment support in the Installation Deployment Plan.
  4.7. 86 AW Manpower will: document impact from deployment support to personnel in
  NATO billets and offset from within existing wing manpower funding as priorities dictate.
  4.8. 86th Medical Group (86 MDG) will:
     4.8.1. Provide GSU and tenant unit support specifically with the program requirements
     outlined in AFI 10-246, Food and Water Protection Program, AFI 48-144, Safe Drinking
     Water Surveillance Program, AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health
     Program, AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, and applicable USAFE
     supplements.
     4.8.2. Comply with the guidance established in AFI 10-246, AFI 44-103, The Air Force
     Independent Duty Medical Technician Program, AFI 41-101, Obtaining Alternative
     Medical and Dental Care, AFI 48-144, AFI 48-145, AFI 48-148, and applicable USAFE
     supplements.
  4.9. GSUs/Tenants will:
     4.9.1. Seek appropriate support from their host facility (i.e., wing GSU support office,
     Army, Navy, or Host Nation military). GSU leadership will periodically review existing
     interservice or host nation support agreements through the wing SAMs and wing GSU
     support function to ensure agreements are current and adequately support the mission.
     4.9.2. Ensure the readiness of assigned personnel/cargo and ensure the unit can meet all
     deployment requirements. For further guidance on support of deployment planning
     activities, refer to AFI 10-403.
     4.9.3. Coordinate with wing Demand Reduction Program Manager to ensure that
     urinalysis testing processes are in place for all active duty AF members.
     4.9.4. Provide the 86 AW/GSU Support Office with unit’s leadership and emergency
     contact information to be incorporated into the local Emergency Management program.
8                                              RAMSTEINABI10-505 28 AUGUST 2012


    4.9.5. Work with the appropriate legal office to ensure compliance with AFI 10-246, AFI
    44-103, The Air Force Independent Duty Medical Technician Program, AFI 41-101,
    Obtaining Alternative Medical and Dental Care, AFI 48-144, AFI 48-145, AFI 48-148,
    and applicable USAFE supplements for GSU members’ medical and dental care
    requirements.
    4.9.6. Comply with guidance in AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary and Preventive
    Law Programs, to ensure legal readiness of GSU members.




                                        CHALRES K. HYDE, Brigadier General, USAF
                                        Commander, 86th Airlift Wing
RAMSTEINABI10-505 28 AUGUST 2012                                                          9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support, 9 Aug 1995
DoD 7000.14-R, DoD Financial Management Regulation, 15 Nov 1992
AFPD 10-5, Basing, 26 Nov 1993
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 Jan 2008
AFPD 25-2, Support Agreements, 1 Nov 2001
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, 1 May 2005
AFPAM 32-1004, Volume 3, Working in the Operations Flight Facility Maintenance, 1 Sept
1998
AFI 34-201, Use of Non-appropriated Funds (NAFS), 17 Jun 2002
AFI 33-222, Records Management Program, 1 Jun 2001
AFI 41-101, Obtaining Alternative Medical and Dental Care, Obtaining Alternative Medical and
Dental Care, 1 Apr 1996
AFI 44-103, The Air Force Independent Duty Medical Technician Program, 1 May 2005
AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary and Preventive Law Programs, 27 Oct 2003
AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 Mar 2005
USAFEI 10-505, Geographically Separated Unit and Tenant Support, 2 Sept 2011
Prescribed Forms:
None
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sept 2009

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AA—-Administrative Agent
ACC—-Air Combat Command
ADSN—-Accounting and Disbursing Symbol Number
AF—-Air Force
AFI—-Air Force Instructions
AFMAN—-Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—-Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSPC—-Air Force Space Command
 10                                          RAMSTEINABI10-505 28 AUGUST 2012


AMC—-Air Mobility Command
AOR—-Area of Responsibility
AW—-Airlift Wing
COMUSAFE—-Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
DoD—-Department of Defense
DoJ—-Department of Justice
DoS—-Department of State
DSW—-Designated Support Wing
ESOH—-Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health
EUCOM—-European Command
FOB—-Forward Operating Base
FSS—-Force Support Squadron
FTAC—-First Term Airmen Center
GSU—-Geographically Separated Unit
HAF—-Headquarters Air Force
HQ—-Headquarters
IAW—-In Accordance With
IPR—-Installation Personnel Readiness
ISSA—-Inter Service Support Agreement
MAJCOM—-Major Command
MDG—-Medical Group
MOA—-Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—-Memorandum of Understanding
NATO—-North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OEH—-Occupational and Environmental Health
OPR—-Office of Primary Responsibility
PAS—-Personnel Accounting Symbol
POC—-Point of Contact
POM—-Program Objective Memorandums
QoL—-Quality of Life
RDS—-Records Disposition Schedule
SAM—-Support Agreement Manager
RAMSTEINABI10-505 28 AUGUST 2012                                                                11


SMEs—Subject Matter Experts
UMD—-Unit Manning Document
USAFE—-United States Air Forces in Europe
USEUCOM—-United States European Command

Terms
Activity. —Any non USAFE unit located on or supported by a USAFE base/installation (i.e., a
tenant) or any international unit for which USAFE is assigned Administrative Agent (AA). This
includes North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) units, United States European Command
(USEUCOM) functions, non-USAFE AF activities, non-AF Department of Defense (DoD)
activities , non-DoD US Government activities, and other non-US (i.e., international) activities
covered by a separate support agreement.
Administrative Agent. —The service component designated by DoD 7000.14R to budget for
and support the US military element attached to the designated international military
organization.
Annex.—For the purposes of this instruction, a USAFE Annex is a facility where:

   USAFE personnel live or are permanently assigned to work.
   the purpose and functions performed are integral to, are a major mission activity of, or are in
   direct support of the DSW.
   the geographic separation from its DSW does not require a subordinate support command
   element and headquarters to provide basic base support functions.

Designated Support Wing (DSW). The USAFE Wing designated to address the majority of
GSU and activity support requirements for the units at the assigned locations. For the purposes
of this instruction, the following Wings in USAFE are designated as DSWs: 100 ARW (RAF
Mildenhall); 48 FW (RAF Lakenheath); 501 CSW (RAF Alconbury AB); 52 FW (Spangdahlem
AB); 86 AW (Ramstein AB); 31 FW (Aviano AB); and 39 ABW (Incirlik AB).

Detached Activity. USAFE unit or activity with authorized personnel with little or no real
property.
Forward Operating Base (FOB). Semi-permanent installation used to support tactical
operations without fully established support facilities. Can be scalable, used for an extended
time period, and may contain prepositioned equipment. Back-up support by a DSW may be
required. An FOB may have real property accountability through ownership, lease, permit or
other written agreement for all real estate and facilities. FOBs that have agreements with foreign
governments which give the AF jurisdiction and control over real property meet this
requirement.

Geographically Separated Unit (GSU). For the purpose of this instruction, a USAFE unit that
is not located on its parent unit installation.
 12                                               RAMSTEINABI10-505 28 AUGUST 2012


Non-USAFE Personnel. Personnel who are assigned within the USAFE AOR, but who are not
USAFE assets. Some support is derived from their parent command, Administrative Agent, or
host installation. This instruction does not supersede these responsibilities or other support
agreements.

Other Command Unit. Organization with no USAFE or NATO personnel.

Other Command Site. Location in the USAFE AOR, manned and operated by non-USAFE
personnel, including NATO personnel, that is not collocated with a USAFE DSW or GSU.

Support Site. Facility operated by USAFE unit or supporting AF personnel that provides
general support to the AF mission and does not satisfy the criteria for a DSW or minor
installation.

Tenant Unit. Any non-USAFE organization residing or requesting to reside on a USAFE
installation.

USAFE Unmanned Property Site. Real property site owned or operated by USAFE.
RAMSTEINABI10-505 28 AUGUST 2012                      13


                             Attachment 2
             RAMSTEIN AIR BASE SUPPORT REQUEST FORM
