BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       RAMSTEIN AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 40-301
OF RAMSTEIN AIR BASE
                                                                                   1 APRIL 2011

                                                                               Medical Command

                                                             FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 86 MDG/MDOS                                                        Certified by: 86 MDG/CC
                                                                            (Col Joycelyn Elaiho)
Supersedes:    KMCI 40-301, 27 April 2007                                                 Pages: 8


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 40-3, Family Advocacy
Program. It establishes the Ramstein Family Advocacy Program (FAP) and explains policies
and procedures for identification, protection, treatment, and prevention of family maltreatment.
This instruction applies to all Air Force personnel assigned to Ramstein Air Base, all Air Force
organizational units, Department of Defense Education Authority (DoDEA) employees and
geographically separated units serviced by Ramstein Air Base. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Family Advocacy Program using the AF IMT
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised to comply with current Air Force Medical Operations
Agency guidance and must be completely reviewed. There have been minor changes throughout
this instruction to include the following: revised document to reflect change from 435th Air Base
Wing (435 ABW) to 86th Airlift Wing and significant revisions at sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3.4., 4.3.6.,
4.3.7., 4.3.9., and 4.3.12.
 2                                                       RAMSTEINABI40-301 1 APRIL 2011


1. General: This instruction assigns responsibilities and explains procedures for managing the
FAP. This instruction mandates reporting of all incidents of family maltreatment by all base
organizational units and active duty members.
2. Mission statement: The Ramstein Air Base FAP mission is to build healthy families,
resilient communities to ensure mission readiness by providing education/prevention and
therapeutic interventions of family maltreatment.
3. Responsibilities:
     3.1. Installation Commander:
        3.1.1. Responsible for implementation and management of the base FAP.
        3.1.2. Establishes Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) composed of the 86th Airlift
        Wing Vice Commander 86th Mission Support Group Commander, 86th Medical Group
        Commander, Family Advocacy Officer, Family Advocacy Outreach Manager, Airman
        and Family Readiness Center Director, Staff Judge Advocate or designee, Wing Chaplain
        or designee, Chief or Deputy Chief of Military Personnel, Chief of Security Forces or
        designee, Office of Special Investigations Detachment Commander or designee,
        Department of Defense Schools representative, and the Director of Youth Services.
        Specific responsibilities of members are outlined in AFI 40-301.
     3.2. The Family Advocacy Committee:
        3.2.1. Establishes a cooperative working relationship in the greater Kaiserslautern area.
        3.2.2. Works with the Army Family Advocacy Program to ensure clients receive the care
        needed.
        3.2.3. Works with the local German authorities to assure jurisdiction issues are addressed
        and resolved.
        3.2.4. Ensures all written memoranda of understanding with the Army and local German
        authorities to properly implement FAP are properly developed and periodically reviewed.
        3.2.5. Establishes and appoints members of the Child Sexual Maltreatment Response
        Team and the High Risk for Violence Response Team. Monitors the activities of each
        team and reviews their policy recommendations ensuring their effectiveness.
        3.2.6. Establishes written policies and procedures for local response to child sexual
        maltreatment via the Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT) and ensures
        all personnel are trained in their roles in the response process.
        3.2.7. Meets at the call of the chairperson but at least quarterly with at least 2/3 of
        appointed members in attendance.
4. Procedures:
     4.1. Outreach Program:
        4.1.1. The purpose of this program is to provide primary prevention services and
        secondary prevention programs to all Air Force personnel and their families.
        4.1.2. The Family Advocacy Outreach Manager (FAOM) functions as the FAP
        prevention team leader and community liaison. In collaboration with the Integrated
RAMSTEINABI40-301 1 APRIL 2011                                                                  3


     Delivery System (IDS) and FAP staff, the FAOM will design, develop, coordinate,
     deliver and market primary and secondary prevention programs that build on community
     assets, responds to current community needs, and are approved by the FAC.
  4.2. New Parent Support Program (NPSP):
     4.2.1. The Family Advocacy Nurses (FAN’s) are responsible for implementing, and
     coordinating the New Parent Support Program. This program provides education and
     support to expectant families and/or families who have children 0-3 years old. The
     responsibilities of the FAN include:
     4.2.1.1. Offering outreach activities at the Landstuhl Army Base Health and Wellness
     Center (HAWC).
        4.2.1.2. Providing primary prevention and education classes on a monthly basis, to
        include Preparation for Parenting, Preparation for Birth, Breastfeeding classes, Expectant
        Father’s Class, Infant Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation and other classes as appropriate.
        4.2.1.3. Conducting home visits to families enrolled in NPSP on a voluntary basis.
        4.2.1.4. Acting as liaison between families and other community agencies.
     4.2.2. The FAN’s receive referrals from health care providers, units, Tricare, and LRMC,
     in addition to self-referrals.
  4.3. Family Maltreatment Intervention:
     4.3.1. The purpose of the maltreatment intervention program is to protect victims of
     family violence from any further abuse; to offer therapeutic services to improve family
     functioning; and eliminate any further incidents of family violence.
     4.3.2. Central Registry Board (CRB):
        4.3.2.1. The Family Advocacy Officer (FAO) is responsible for the family
        maltreatment component of the FAP and will serve as coordinator of the board. The
        Vice Wing Commander will chair the CRB. In his absence, the CRB may be chaired
        by the Mission Support Group Commander.
        4.3.2.2. Composition of the CRB includes the CRB Chairperson, Staff Judge
        Advocate, Command Chief Master Sergeant, Security Forces Investigation
        Representative; Office of Special Investigations; and the FAO.          Squadron
        Commander(s) or designees of the active duty offender/active duty victim are also
        voting members. If both offender and victim are military, both commanders are
        invited and both vote.
        4.3.2.3. The CRB reviews all referrals of family maltreatment and makes incident
        status determinations. Cases are referred to by case number in meeting minutes.
        4.3.2.4. The CRB meets at the call of the chairperson, but at least monthly, unless
        there are no new referrals requiring determination.
4                                                    RAMSTEINABI40-301 1 APRIL 2011


    4.3.3. Reporting Procedures:
       4.3.3.1. All agencies, departments, or individuals affiliated with the Kaiserslautern
       Military Community will report all incidents of suspected or established family
       maltreatment directly to the Family Advocacy Clinic. Family Advocacy reports all
       cases of suspected family maltreatment to the Air Force Office of Special
       Investigations, and 86th Security Forces Squadron, in addition to notifying the
       member’s Commander and/or First Sergeant. The Family Advocacy Clinic at
       Ramstein Air Base will also make notifications and coordinate care with the Army
       Family Advocacy Program at Landstuhl Regional Medical Center as appropriate.
    4.3.4. The 86th Medical Group personnel will:
       4.3.4.1. Ensure the patient is medically stable with immediate referral to Landstuhl
       Regional Medical Center (LRMC) if the injury is severe or life threatening.
       4.3.4.2.
       4.3.4.3. Be sensitive to the clues of possible spouse or child abuse trauma, especially
       when trauma is unexplained or the explanation is inconsistent with the injury.
       Specific examples are cited in MDGI40-5.
       4.3.4.4. Provide for the necessary medical treatment and documentation of the
       injuries. The alert on-call photographer will be called for physical abuse cases to
       obtain pictures of the injuries as needed at DSN 480-5533.
    4.3.5. 86th Security Forces:
       4.3.5.1. 86th Security Forces responding to incidents of family maltreatment will
       secure the safety of the individuals involved.
           4.3.5.1.1. If the case involves a domestic incident the couple will be separated
           from one another and statements taken.
           4.3.5.1.2. If the case involves child abuse the child will not be left alone with the
           parents until a Family Advocacy representative is contacted and assesses the
           situation.
       4.3.5.2. Security Forces responding to reported incidents of family maltreatment will
       refer all cases to the FAP (after hours referrals will be made to the Emergency Room
       at LRMC as soon as possible). The FAO will provide consultation in dealing with
       abusive or neglectful families.
       4.3.5.3. Security Forces will contact the member’s commander or first sergeant for
       all incidents of spouse or child maltreatment.
       4.3.5.4. In cases of suspected child maltreatment and aggravated spouse abuse,
       Security Forces will notify Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI).
    4.3.6. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI):
       4.3.6.1. AFOSI Family Advocacy Program liaison agent will notify the FAO of all
       cases involving suspected or established family maltreatment that come to the
       attention of the installation AFOSI. In turn, the FAO will notify the AFOSI duty
       agent as soon as possible upon receipt of information concerning family
RAMSTEINABI40-301 1 APRIL 2011                                                                5


        maltreatment. AFOSI will conduct investigations into the incident as appropriate, and
        coordinate the investigation as deemed necessary.
        4.3.6.2. AFOSI will conduct a Defense Central Index of Investigations (DCII) check
        on incidents according to AFI 40-301. AFOSI personnel will notify the FAO when a
        DCII check reveals information regarding previous incidents involving the family in
        question.
        4.3.6.3. The AFOSI European Region Forensic consultant may be contacted to
        request training for medical personnel and Child Care Center personnel to assist them
        in identifying injuries consistent with child maltreatment. Request for training should
        be made in writing to the AFOSI Squadron Commander.
        4.3.6.4. In cases of Child Sexual Maltreatment, AFOSI will be consulted to assist
        with interviews.
     4.3.7. Commanders and First Sergeants:
        4.3.7.1. Coordinate with the FAO to provide a safe environment for the alleged
        victim. This may include temporarily placing the active duty member in alternate
        housing and implementing a no contact order. When no appropriate alternate housing
        placements are available, and there is a safety risk identified, command will notify the
        Family Advocacy Officer for assistance in establishing a temporary placement.
        4.3.7.2. Will report all families experiencing domestic violence to the FAP, and
        arrange for therapeutic counseling, education and referral assistance as required.
        4.3.7.3. Will work with FAP to ensure the member is present for interview and
        treatment appointments.
        4.3.7.4. Will inform the FAO the time/date of the release of an active duty member
        when sentenced to confinement for a child abuse crime. A safety assessment will be
        conducted by the FAO or Family Advocacy Treatment Manager (FATM) prior to the
        active duty member being returned to his family residence after confinement.
     4.3.8. Community Agencies:
        4.3.8.1. Community agencies will notify FAP of any incidents of child maltreatment
        or neglect, or spouse maltreatment involving military families connected with
        Ramstein Air Base.
        4.3.8.2. The Ramstein FAO will work on a collaborative basis with community
        agencies to assist in providing necessary services to families experiencing family
        maltreatment.
        4.3.8.3. Community helping agencies, and other agencies with an interest, will
        complete family violence training on an annual basis in coordination with the FAOM.
     4.3.9. Transportation of alleged victims of child maltreatment:
        4.3.9.1. Referrals of child maltreatment frequently originate from an on-base child-
        care facility or school, or are received while the alleged victim is at one of these
        facilities. When the alleged victim is a child at a Department of Defense (DoD)-
        sanctioned activity (school, Child Development Center, etc.) and is believed to be at
6                                                   RAMSTEINABI40-301 1 APRIL 2011


       risk for maltreatment, the staff member will immediately notify FAP. The FAP
       clinician assigned to the case will work with the unit representative to ensure that the
       alleged offender is not involved in transporting the alleged victim. As a last result,
       the FAP clinician will consider obtaining parental permission to interview the child at
       the DoD-sanctioned activity prior to the child having any further contact with either
       parent. After the interview with the child is complete, the non-offending parent may
       assist with transportation to FAP or MTF if needed.
       4.3.9.2. Under no circumstances may Family Advocacy Program (FAP) personnel
       transport alleged victims.
       4.3.9.3. Procedures:
          4.3.9.3.1. When a maltreatment referral suggests the need for emergency medical
          care, Ambulance Dispatch should be called immediately for transport to the
          nearest medical treatment facility.
          4.3.9.3.2. When referrals involve allegations of child sexual abuse the CSMRT
          will be activated and will contribute to decisions related to transportation of the
          alleged victim.
       4.3.9.3.3. A reliable individual known to the child, identified by the parent and
       approved of by the First Sergeant may transport the alleged victim to FAP for
       interview and/or medical assessment.
          4.3.9.3.4. If parents do not provide consent, the non-offending parent will be
          accompanied by a chaperone appointed by the First Sergeant to transport the child
          to FAP for interview and/or medical assessment.
          4.3.9.3.5. If the above listed options are not viable; the Jugendamt will be
          contacted to arrange transportation through the German Polizei.
    4.3.10. Child Sexual Maltreatment:
       4.3.10.1. The Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team (CSMRT) consists of the
       Family Advocacy Officer or designee, and representatives from AFOSI and the Staff
       Judge Advocate. The CSMRT will convene in person or telephonically to manage
       the initial response to all child sexual maltreatment allegations.
       4.3.10.2. The CSMRT will coordinate to minimize the number of interviews or
       examinations in order to reduce potential emotional trauma to the alleged victim(s).
       4.3.10.3. The CSMRT will develop and implement plans to ensure the safety of both
       the alleged victim(s) and the alleged offender(s).
       4.3.10.4. In cases of multiple victims or a complex situation of child sexual
       maltreatment, the CSMRT will advise the FAC regarding requests for the deployment
       of the Family Advocacy Command Assistance Team (FACAT).
       4.3.10.5. The CSMRT reports to the FAC.
    4.3.11. High Risk for Violence:
       4.3.11.1. The High Risk for Violence Response Team (HRVRT) consists of the Family
       Advocacy Officer, FAP clinician, AFOSI, Staff Judge Advocate, Security Forces, the
RAMSTEINABI40-301 1 APRIL 2011                                                                 7


          Command, Mental Health Provider and other members as deemed necessary on a case-
          by-case basis. The HRVRT manages potentially dangerous situations involving FAP
          clients when members of the family may be in imminent danger of harm by other family
          members or FAP staff may be in imminent danger of harm by a FAP client or ex-client.
          4.3.11.2. The FAO must be notified when there is a threat of immediate harm to an
          individual within the FAP system. The HRVRT will be activated by the FAO upon
          notification of potential threat of harm. The HRVRT will assess the level of danger and
          then develop and implement a course of action to manage the risk of violence. The
          HRVRT members have authority to make commitments and decisions on behalf of their
          organizations or agencies.
          4.3.11.3. The HRVRT reports to the FAC.
      4.3.12. Jurisdiction of Family Maltreatment Cases
          4.3.12.1. Active Duty Members and their Family Members:
             4.3.12.1.1. All United States Air Force active duty members and their families
             assigned to Ramstein Air Base (RAB) will receive services from the 86th Medical
             Group, Family Advocacy Program when maltreatment is suspected.
             4.3.12.1.2. All US Army active duty members and their families in the
             Kaiserslautern area will receive services from the Landstuhl Regional Medical
             Center (LRMC), Family Advocacy Program.
          4.3.12.2. Cases involving Department of Defense Employees and Civilian
          Contractors assigned to RAB:
             4.3.12.2.1. The FAO will consult with SJA before opening a case. If determined
             by SJA to be appropriate, the family is notified. If cooperative, a case will be
             opened and services will be offered.
             4.3.12.2.2. If the family refuses services the case will be logged in as a “no
             reasonable suspicion” and appropriate referrals to civilian agencies will be made.
             In some cases, a recommendation will be made to the Civilian Misconduct Board.
          4.3.12.3. Cases involving retirees:
             4.3.12.3.1. At the discretion of the FAO, on a space available basis, suspicions of
             child or partner maltreatment of retiree family members can be opened. When
             there is no “space available” appointments, safety assessment and planning will
             be offered followed by referrals to appropriate community resources.

5. Adopted Forms:

AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            MARK C. DILLON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
 8                                                 RAMSTEINABI40-301 1 APRIL 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Air Force Policy Directive 40-3, Family Advocacy Program, 10 March 2005
Air Force Medical Operations Guidance, Family Advocacy Program Standards, Dec 2009
Medical Group Instruction 44-120, Family Advocacy Program

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB—Air Base
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigation
CRB—Central Registry Board
FAN—Family Advocacy Nurse
FAO—Family Advocacy Officer
FAOM—Family Advocacy Outreach Manager
FAP—Family Advocacy Program
HRVRT—High Risk for Violence Response Team
LRMC—Landstuhl Regional Medical Center
MDGI—Medical Group Instruction
NPSP—New Parent Support Program
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
