BY ORDER OF THE                                         RAMSTEIN AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 36-2801
COMMANDER 86TH AIRLIFT WING                                                               15 AUGUST 1996
                                                                        Certified Current 28 November 2008
                                                                                                 Personnel

                                                                                    BASE HONOR GUARD




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the RAB WWW site at: https://wwwmil.usafe.af.
mil/bases/ramstein/86cg/786cs/pubs/index.html. If you lack access, contact the Base Publishing Office.


OPR: 86 SVS/SVX (SSgt Lozano)                                    Certified by: 86 SVS/SVX (Capt Wright)
Supersedes RABR 900-1, 15 April 1993                                                             Pages: 4
                                                                        Distribution: F,X. (team members)

This instruction establishes the method for selection, notification, dispatch, and utilization of the 86th Air-
lift Wing Base Honor Guard at Ramstein AB. It also outlines the responsibilities of key personnel of the
honor guard. It applies to all assigned and tenant units at Ramstein AB.
SUMMARY OF REVISIONS:
Updates organizational office symbols and publication references; changes minimum requirement of base
honor guard team (para 1); adds medal request for outstanding honor guard members (para 11.5).



1. General . The base honor guard will consist of one cohesive team (4 elements) made up of a mini-
mum of one officer and 38 members. This additional duty contingent under the 86th Airlift Wing will
represent Ramstein AB in the performance of all military honors at ceremonies, funerals, and other public
relations functions deemed appropriate by the 86th Airlift Wing or the 86th Support Group Commander.
Administration of the base honor guard will be the responsibility of the 86th Services Squadron.

2. Manning. Each organization at Ramstein AB is tasked to provide members for the honor guard. The
86th Mission Support Squadron Commander will establish the quotas for the 86th Airlift Wing and the
Ramstein tenant units for manning the honor guard. Units are encouraged to provide volunteers for all
positions. In the event quotas cannot be filled with volunteers, appointments will become mandatory.
The minimum tour of duty for all members will be one year unless waived by agreement of the appropri-
ate unit commander and the Honor Guard Commander (HGC)/Honor Guard Officer in Charge (HG OIC)/
NonCommissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC).

3. Training. Training is a mandatory formation and will be conducted on Thursday of each week. Train-
ing will start at 1400 and conclude at 1700. No squadron or personal appointments should be scheduled
for honor guard team members on training days. No-shows and late arrivals will be reported to their units
2                                                                     RABI36-2801 15 AUGUST 1996

by the end of the training day. Supplementary training sessions may be scheduled by the HGC/OIC or
NCOIC as required to prepare for specific ceremonies.

4. Honor Guard Commander/OIC/NCOIC will:
    4.1. Become familiar with all aspects of honor guard duties and publications covered in the honor
    guard training booklet.
    4.2. Make sure each member of the honor guard is briefed regarding their responsibilities and under-
    stands the purpose, importance, and duties of the base honor guard.
    4.3. Delegate responsibilities to assistants in the areas of administration, training, equipment, and
    inspections. Assign personnel to act as trainers and instructors as needed.
    4.4. Act as alternate equipment custodian for all equipment and supplies used by the honor guard and
    ensure monthly inventories are taken and furnished to the honor guard administrator. Brief all mem-
    bers on their responsibilities in maintaining all equipment and facilities.
    4.5. Issue necessary equipment to all personnel for training and ceremonial purposes on AF Form
    1297, Temporary Issue Receipt.
    4.6. Ensure all training necessary to maintain a high standard of proficiency in drill and ceremony is
    scheduled, conducted, and annotated in proper records.
    4.7. Act as a point of contact on all requests for ceremonies and functions. The HGC/OIC/NCOIC
    will coordinate all necessary aspects related to meeting the requirement for efficient operation of all
    events. They will ensure that all requested ceremonies and functions are annotated and assigned
    proper personnel to perform them.
    4.8. Ensure notification is made to the motor pool dispatcher, at a minimum of 24 hours in advance,
    when possible, for all vehicle requirements. Pick-up time should be far enough in advance to allow
    for last minute changes in vehicle selection.
    4.9. Make certain the honor guard departs for performances so that they will arrive at least one hour
    before performance time. If it is known the honor guard will be late for a scheduled formation, imme-
    diately inform the point of contact.
    4.10. Receive briefings on all performances immediately afterwards and ensure the HGC/OIC/
    NCOIC of the function initiates post performance reports within 24 hours.
    4.11. Ensure immediate return and proper storage of all ceremonial equipment and coordinate with
    the honor guard administrator for replacement equipment and supplies when needed.
    4.12. Interview personnel departing the honor guard and request replacements from unit honor guard
    coordinators. They will maintain the honor guard quota status and report monthly to the commander
    of services and/or operations officer those units not meeting their quotas.
    4.13. Ensure an accurate list of all members is on file at linen exchange for the purpose of cleaning
    honor guard uniforms and ceremonial items; update this list monthly, and furnish a copy to the honor
    guard administrator.
    4.14. Ensure an accurate list of all members authorized to draw weapons is on file at the Base Weap-
    ons Storage Facility; update this list annually or as changes occur.
RABI36-2801 15 AUGUST 1996                                                                               3

   4.15. Monitor all training records and ensure proper qualification of all members in performing all
   aspects of military honors. Ensure training is annotated weekly and member’s status is accurately
   maintained.
   4.16. Perform open ranks dress inspection of all members periodically. The HGC/OIC/NCOIC will
   ensure strict compliance of dress and appearance by all members assigned.
   4.17. Have the authority to remove any member who does not meet the high standards inferred in this
   instruction or who becomes an administrative problem.

5. Honor Guard Function NCOs. This individual is responsible for the efficient operation of an entire
military ceremony or function as assigned by the HGC/OIC/NCOIC. The honor guard function NCO will
become aware of all aspects of honor guard duties and publications covered in the honor guard booklet.
They will assume responsibilities in areas concerning colors, firing party, body bearing, and training
directed by the HGC/OIC/NCOIC.

6. Honor Guard Administrator. The 86th Services Squadron Commander (86 SVS) or the honor guard
administrator designated by the 86 SVS commander will be the contact point for all requests from the
base and local community for honor guard formations. The honor guard administrator will:
   6.1. Keep in contact with the HGC/OIC/NCOIC concerning all requests.
   6.2. Act as the primary equipment custodian on the honor guard equipment account and provide the
   base honor guard with the required equipment to be used in ceremonies.
   6.3. Budget for funds required and establish a separate organization code under the services projected
   funds management record (PFMR) to support the complete program.
   6.4. Schedule invited distinguished guests to perform an open ranks inspection on a periodic basis.

7. Honor Guard Members. The application will have an acknowledgment block for the team member’s
first line supervisor through the first sergeant. All honor guard members will keep the HGC/OIC/NCOIC
advised of times they will not be available for duty, reasons such as leave, TDY (personnel going TDY in
excess of 60 consecutive days must be replaced), etc. The honor guard member’s performance at a detail
or training session will have priority over any other base activities, appointments, or squadron additional
duties. They will be relieved of all base and squadron details, except mobility and their wartime skill
(with the exception of bay orderly for dormitory residents). All members must report for training and/or
functions on time and in the proper uniform as prescribed by the HGC/OIC/NCOIC. It is imperative that
all honor guard members maintain a high degree of professionalism as prescribed in all Air Force publi-
cations while assigned to the Ramstein Air Base Honor Guard.

8. Honor Guard Uniforms. It is important that all honor guard members have a clean, pressed, seasonal
uniform available for immediate use. Members may take required clothing needed to perform honor
guard duties to linen exchange for cleaning at government expense. Each member will provide linen
exchange with a letter signed by the HGC/OIC/NCOIC to authorize the cleaning of each uniform.

9. Transportation. The 86th Transportation Squadron Commander will be responsible to furnish the
base honor guard with vehicles that are clean and in good repair before being checked out of the transpor-
4                                                                     RABI36-2801 15 AUGUST 1996

tation squadron u-drive section. When possible, the base honor guard will provide drivers for the vehi-
cles. Normal vehicle turn-in procedures outlined at transportation will apply.

10. Records: Maintain and dispose of records accumulated as a result of this directive in accordance with
AFMAN 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule.

11. Special Considerations.
    11.1. Personnel assigned to the base honor guard are authorized free cleaning of their honor guard
    uniform and equipment at linen exchange.
    11.2. Enlisted personnel assigned to the base honor guard will be excused from all base additional
    duties except mobility and their wartime skill. Mobility is considered normal duty associated with the
    job to which one is assigned. Assignment to a mobility position does not preclude an individual from
    being a member of the base honor guard; however, mobility exercises and actual deployments will
    take precedence over base honor guard activities.
    11.3. Honor guard members are authorized to wear the practice uniform to duty stations on days of
    practice (Thursdays) and days of practice for a function. Honor guard members are authorized to
    wear the honor guard uniform to work stations on days when they must first go to normal duty loca-
    tions and later in the day report for honor guard duties. The honor guard uniform need not be worn if
    it is not practical, will limit individuals in the performance of duty, or when the uniform will become
    unpresentable before the ceremony is performed.
    11.4. Single room occupancy for honor guard member when available.
    11.5. Medal request by the 86th Airlift Wing Base Honor Guard for outstanding honor guard mem-
    bers.



                                          LARRY A. SMITH, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
