BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            RAMSTEIN AIR BASE PAMPHLET 32-602
86TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                        27 MAY 2011

                                                                                   Civil Engineering

                                                   MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING BROCHURE




ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 86 CES/CEH                                                             Certified by: 86 AW/CC
                                                                                  (Brig Gen Dillion)
Supersedes:    RAMSTEINABPAM32-602,                                                        Pages: 19
               27 October 2004


These procedures prescribe and explain resident and government responsibilities with respect to
Military Family Housing in the Kaiserslautern Military Community (KMC). Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This change revises RAMSTEIN PAMPHLET 32-602, 27 Oct 2004 by (1) clarifying personal
recreational equipment responsibility to ensure play equipment, grills, trampolines, swing sets,
basketball goals and other types of play stations are installed properly and according to
manufacturer‘s specifications, (2) deleting area/building leader responsibilities, (3) deleting
itemized table of estimated repair costs, (4) deleting care of interior, (5) revising care of exterior,
and incorporate within landscaping and grounds care, (6) deleting reference to lead hazards, (7)
updating contact information, (8) updating cost factors/replacement damage costs, (9)
renumbering paragraphs affected by this change.

Introduction. Welcome to the Kaiserslautern Military Community (KMC) Family Housing.
The Installation Commander (86 AW/CC), Base Civil Engineer (86 CEG/CC) and Housing
Management Office (86 CES/CEH) are responsible for ensuring that on-base military family
housing (MFH) units are maintained according to Air Force standards and provide a safe and
 2                                                 RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011


secure home for our residents. It is your responsibility as a member of the community to keep up
to date on what is going on, actively participate in housing events, and help enforce standards.

Acceptance of MFH indicates a member's agreement to accept the standards in this pamphlet.
Failure to accept these standards or discharge responsibilities in an effective manner could be
grounds for termination and may result in disciplinary action. We ask for your continued support
in keeping our housing areas looking good and to make our community one we all can be proud
of.
1. AIR FORCE RESPONSIBILITIES. The Air Force will provide maintenance and repair,
refuse collection and disposal, pest control, fire and police protection.
     1.1. Family Housing Maintenance
        1.1.1. Maintenance and Repair. The 86th Civil Engineer Group (CEG) has primary
        responsibility for maintenance of your home. However, in the KMC, a contractor is
        responsible for most day-to-day housing maintenance, operation of the MFH U-Fix-It
        Stores and the cleaning of stairwells. The Housing U-Fix-It Stores are located at
        Ramstein, Landstuhl and Vogelweh.
        1.1.2. Service Calls. When the Service Call Desk receives a call for repairs, a job order
        number is generated and provided to the resident. Please write down the job order
        number for reference. You will be provided an approximate date/time the work will be
        performed.
            1.1.2.1. Service Call Priority. There are three categories of service calls:
            emergency, urgent and routine.

Table 1. Service Call Priority.
 Service Call    Response/Completion Time         Defined As

  Emergency       60 min, complete within         A structural, utility or mechanical problem
                  24 hours                        that could cause loss of life or property.
                                                  Complete utility failure (electricity, heat,
                                                  water or sewage).

  Urgent          48 hours, complete within       Failure or deficiency, which does not
                  5 calendar days                 immediately endanger the residents or
                                                  threaten damage to property, but would
                                                  soon inconvenience and affect the health
                                                  and well being of the residents. Examples
                                                  are: faucet dripping and dishwasher
                                                  inoperative.

  Routine         5 calendar days, complete       Work of a routine nature that does not
                  within 30 calendar days         meet the criteria of emergency or urgent.
RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011                                                               3


         1.1.2.2. Lockout Service Call. Occupants of on-base housing can contact housing
         maintenance contractor 24/7 for assistance should they be locked out of their quarters.
         You will be charged a fee (fee subject to change) for lockout service. Cost of
         replacement of lost keys is also the responsibility of the resident. In the event lost
         keys require a change in the locks, the expense of replacement is also the resident‘s
         responsibility.
         1.1.2.3. Contract Service Problems. The Housing Quality Assurance Team
         monitors the maintenance contractor‘s work. Residents should expect quality
         maintenance with courteous and prompt service. If you experience problems let
         Housing know (DSN 489-7108 or commercial 0631-536-7108 or e-mail
         86ces.cehhousingoffice@ramstein.af.mil).
  1.2. Housing Refuse and Recyclable Collection. Recycling is the law in Germany. The
  Air Force is responsible for providing Refuse and Recycling containers in the MFH areas,
  which will be emptied at regularly scheduled times. Proper disposal of personal property is
  the responsibility of the resident. You may be charged removal/clean-up fees and have your
  privilege to live in base housing terminated if you abandon property inside or outside of your
  quarters. Oversized items and hazardous waste materials are the resident‘s responsibility to
  dispose of at the nearest recycle center.
     1.2.1. Parking in front of community refuse collection points or blocking access to
     dumpsters/in-ground containers/collection points is prohibited.
     1.2.2. Please report any damaged or broken containers to the Facilities Section at DSN
     489-7108 or commercial 0631-536-7108.
     1.2.3. Changes to collection schedule are published in the KMC Housing Newsletter,
     KMC Newspaper, area marquees, the housing website, ―KMC All‖ E-mail, your building
     leader, and at http://www.ramstein.af.mil/library/factsheets/factsheet.asp?id=13946.
     1.2.4. Authorized Use of MFH Community Refuse Collection Points. Off-base
     residents, military or civilian and their family members, contractors, teachers and local
     national residents are not authorized to bring their personal property refuse to dispose of
     in MFH. If you see this happen, please note the license plate number, call Security
     Forces immediately.
     1.2.5. Disposal of Dead Animals. The pickup and disposal of dead animals (excluding
     household pets) is the responsibility of the 786th Civil Engineer Squadron. Contact Civil
     Engineer (CE) Customer Service, DSN 489-6623/7703 or commercial 0631-536-6623 to
     report the location of the animal.
  1.3. Landscaping and Grounds Care.
     1.3.1. Resident Landscaping and Grounds Care Responsibility – Stairwell Units.
         1.3.1.1. Each multi-family stairwell facility is assigned a building leader who is
         responsible for the overall enforcement of standards in their Area of Responsibility
         (AOR). AOR is defined as the closer of a 50-foot radius around the facility or
         halfway to the next facility and to the middle of the street. Building leaders or their
         representatives are responsible for ensuring standards are met and may detail
         residents to perform work when needed.
4                                                   RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011


           1.3.1.2. Equipment to accomplish the grounds maintenance for multi-family stairwell
           facilities is provided to the building leader through the MFH U-Fix-It Store. Outside
           water hoses and sprinklers, rakes, anti-skid material for ice control, snow shovels, leaf
           bags, brooms and mulch will be issued as requested by the building leader to perform
           these duties.
           1.3.1.3. CE Grounds Care Responsibilities. Civil Engineering is responsible for
           grounds care in multi-family stairwell units to include landscaping, grass cutting,
           edging of lawns and trimming of shrubs and trees in community areas.
       1.3.2. Resident Landscaping and Grounds Care Responsibility – Townhouse
       Units. Each townhouse resident is responsible for maintaining their AOR, defined as the
       closer of a 50-foot radius around the facility or halfway to the next facility and to the
       middle of the street, including the small strips between the sidewalk and the curb on the
       front and side of townhouses. The rear boundary for your AOR is your back fence.
       Townhouse residents must provide all their own personal lawn care equipment and
       supplies to maintain the standards of their AOR. Limited yard equipment, tools and
       supplies (i.e. mulch, grass seed, fertilizer) are available at the U-Fix-It stores.
    1.4. HOUSING INSPECTIONS. Regular inspections of MFH units ensure all units are
    safe and suitable for residency. Mandatory safety inspections will be conducted, IAW the
    guidance below. Periodic yard inspections occur regularly and when standards (Para 1.4.5.)
    are not maintained, residents are reminded through a yard ticketing program. During
    summer months, a ‗Yard of the Month‘ program honors exceptional exterior care
       1.4.1. Initial Inspections. A housing representative will conduct an initial occupancy
       inspection of your assigned quarters with you. Any discrepancies identified will be noted
       on an AF Form 227, Quarters Condition Inspection Report. You have 15 calendar days
       after the initial inspection to report any additional discrepancies. You should confirm
       your yard maintenance AOR with the inspector.
       1.4.2. Pre-Final Inspection. The purpose of this inspection is to prepare you to vacate
       your quarters. The housing inspector will provide cleaning requirements and identify
       routine maintenance and liability of damages beyond fair wear and tear as required.
       1.4.3. Final Inspection. Once your unit has passed final inspection and keys are
       returned, the inspector will have you sign an AF Form 594, Basic Allowance for Housing
       (BAH), to initiate your quarter‘s allowance. You will also be provided a copy of AF
       Form 227, Quarters Condition Inspection Report, showing satisfactory clearance. If your
       unit does not meet standards the inspector will provide you a written list of discrepancies
       to be corrected. IMMEDIATELY contact the Housing Assistance Section and schedule
       a re-inspection. Inspection failures impact many agencies and people, therefore, should
       you fail a third inspection, you will be required to turn in your keys. Housing
       representatives will then prepare necessary documentation to withhold funds from your
       pay to cover cleaning costs. Moves are difficult and we will make every effort to ensure
       the transition out of your quarters is a smooth one.
       1.4.4. Mandatory Safety Inspections. There are several mandatory safety inspections
       that require entry into your home. These inspections include: annual fire protection
       system maintenance inspection, positive air flow system inspection, filter replacement
RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011                                                                5


      service and dryer duct cleaning service maintenance. If you are not able to be at home
      during the scheduled time, you may have a trusted person authorize entry.
      1.4.5. Inspection Standards: The following chart provides guidance regarding MFH
      inspection standards.

Table 2. Inspection Standards.
  3. INSPECTION STANDARDS FOR FAMILY HOUSING
  ITEM                           STANDARD
  Removal of Debris (All)        Lawn and parking areas must be kept free of debris (paper,
                                 cans, candy wrappers, etc.). Additionally, items such as
                                 tires, car batteries or other miscellaneous hazardous waste
                                 items must be removed and properly disposed of.
  Mow Grass (Other Than          Accomplish as necessary to maintain a neat appearance.
  Stairwell Units)               Grass should not be cut shorter than two (2) inches and not
                                 exceed four (4) inches in height. Mow grass adjacent to
                                 your parking area and garage. Grassed areas must be
                                 maintained in a grassed condition at all times during your
                                 occupancy.
  Grass in Cracks/Crevices       Remove grass and weeds from cracks in sidewalks, steps,
  and Fences (All)               parking spaces, street gutters and door steps. This
                                 includes grass in cracks on the bottom side of the curb
                                 where it meets the street. All weeds and climbing noxious
                                 vines should be removed from fences.
  Edge Grass (Other than         Edge sidewalks, driveways and roadways to maintain a
  Stairwell Units)               neat appearance. Do not dig trenches.


   Flower Beds                   Free of weeds, debris and trash, well maintained,
                                 mulched.

  Watering (All)                 Grass shall be watered regularly to maintain a green and
                                 healthy appearance. Newly sodded or seeded areas shall be
                                 watered daily.
6                                                  RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011


    Shrubs/Trees (All)             Shrubs located in your AOR must be kept neatly trimmed
                                   and not be allowed to contact the exterior wall of the unit or
                                   grow over curbs, sidewalks or through fencing. Trimming
                                   of trees from ground level is resident responsibility. Tree
                                   cutting above the first story will be accomplished by CE. If
                                   there are tree limbs that could damage the roof contact
                                   Grounds Maintenance at DSN 480-6919.
    Garages, Driveways, Patios     Garages, driveways, patios must be neatly maintained.
                                   These areas must not be cluttered or unattractive.

    Vehicle Repairs                Repair of vehicles is not authorized in your garage, carport,
                                   driveway, or parking space. Utilize the Auto Hobby Shop
                                   for ―Home Repairs‖. Vehicles that are dripping fluids (oil,
                                   antifreeze, transmission fluid, brake fluid or other
                                   automotive fluids) on the driveway or roadway must be
                                   removed from the housing area. Unregistered vehicles may
                                   not be in driveways or on streets.

    Snow and Ice Removal (All)     Remove snow and ice from all parking spaces, walks,
                                   sidewalks, steps, fire hydrants and in front of assigned
                                   refuse containers as necessary from 0700 - 2000 daily.

    Exterior Surfaces              Do not drill or place nails in the exterior or fence. Do not
                                   attach anything on the exterior or fence. Use a garden hose
                                   and soft brush to remove dirt build-up on the exterior
                                   finishes.

    Outside Faucets                All houses are equipped with outside faucets.
                                   IT IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY TO DISCONNECT
                                   ALL HOSES FROM OUTSIDE FAUCETS!!
                                   Freeze-ups can and will occur if you do not disconnect your
                                   hose. If your pipes burst due to your negligence, you may
                                   be held financially responsible.
    Driveways, garage floors,      Remove all stains (including oil) from masonry surfaces
    patio surfaces and sidewalks   immediately. You are required to keep all masonry surfaces
                                   free of stains at all times. You will be required to clean all
                                   stains from masonry surfaces when you clear quarters. This
                                   includes on street parking in front of your unit
RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011                                                                  7


  Garage Doors                     You are required to keep your overhead garage door closed
                                   when not in use. This will prevent water line freeze-ups in
                                   the winter, vandalism, improve the appearance of the
                                   neighborhood and limit rodent access to your unit. Also,
                                   tighten nuts and bolts on the garage door periodically

  Front Yard                       Items such as BBQ grills, basketball hoops, swing sets,
                                   bicycles, sheds or toys may NOT be stored in the front yard
                                   or on the front porch/entryway. Front yards and porches
                                   will be kept neat and uncluttered.

   1.5. Snow Removal. The 786th Civil Engineer Squadron is responsible for snow removal
   from streets and public sidewalks beyond the resident‘s assigned areas. Building Leaders
   will identify requirements for residents of multi-family stairwell facilities for snow and ice
   removal from common use areas (driveways, walks, sidewalks, steps and around fire
   hydrants).
2. RESIDENT RESPONSIBILITIES. Resident responsibilities are the same as those
expected of prudent homeowners in the private sector. Residents are required to ensure that their
quarters (including grounds) are properly maintained, clean, free of any safety hazards, and
present a positive appearance and image. The resident provides all supplies and equipment
needed to keep the quarters and assigned area clean and orderly throughout the period of
occupancy.
   2.1. Good Neighbors. Military family housing and close neighbors are synonymous. For
   multi-unit stairwell facilities, a building leader has been appointed for your building. The
   purpose of these leaders is to improve communication between housing residents and senior
   leadership. These representatives are not police officers or conflict mediators, both Security
   Forces and squadron commanders/first sergeants are available to perform these functions.
   However, residents in multi-unit stairwell facilities are expected and required to fully
   cooperate with the building leader.
   2.2. Social Visits. Housing residents are responsible for their guests. A social visit up to 30
   days is permissible. The 86 AW/CC may authorize extensions. Written requests for an
   extension, coordinated through the member‘s unit commander, must be submitted through
   the Housing Office.
   2.3. Leave or Extended TDY. If you will be absent from your quarters, leaving it
   unoccupied for extended periods (over 3 days), you must make arrangements for security,
   prudent care, which includes yard maintenance (mowing, watering, edging, trimming), snow
   removal and periodic inspection of your quarters. You must provide the Housing Office
   (0631-536-6671) and your building leader (if you reside in a multi-family unit) with written
   notification disclosing your intended absence and the name of the person you have
   designated who will have access to your quarters (i.e. house sit, water plants, etc).
   2.4. Foster Children. The 86 AW/CC must approve requests to house foster children in
   MFH. Contact the Family Housing Office (0631-536-6671) for additional information and
   guidance.
8                                                  RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011


    2.5. Nannies. MFH residents may employ a live-in child-care provider with 86 AW/CC
    approval. Requests for permission for a child-care provider to live in your MFH unit must be
    forwarded to the Housing Director in accordance with AFI 32-6001.
    2.6. Telephone Installation. MFH residents are responsible for all arrangements and
    expenses regarding the installation and disconnection of communication and internet service
    in MFH. Information may be obtained at any TKS office on base. Modifying original
    installed wiring or adding cable in your home for additional communications service requires
    an                                                                                   approved
    AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, approved by MFH, before installation.
    The telephone and cable lines inside your unit do not belong to the communications service
    company. If lines are damaged under your contract or direction you are responsible for
    repair. Additional telephone or internet cables installed by you or at your direction must be
    removed and the area restored to its original condition upon termination of MFH.
    2.7. Leasing and Subleasing. Leasing or subleasing MFH units is not authorized.
    2.8. Unaccompanied Tours. Members in housing who receive assignment to an overseas-
    unaccompanied (dependent restricted tour) of 18 months or less who wish to leave their
    families in housing must request permission. Contact the Assistance Section (DSN 489-
    6671/6672 or commercial 0631-536-6671/6672)) for further information.
    2.9. Maintenance and Repair. You are responsible for the cleanliness and simple
    maintenance and repair of your home such as changing light bulbs, replacing sink stoppers,
    cleaning stove burners, and basic insect control.
    2.10. Resident Liability for Damage to Family Housing, Equipment and
    Furnishings. Under Federal Law (10 U.S.C. 2775), members of the Armed Forces
    occupying MFH shall be held liable and accountable for the loss or damage to MFH units,
    equipment or furnishings caused by the abuse or negligence of the member, the member‘s
    dependents and/or the member‘s guests. In the case of simple negligence, the amount of
    liability is limited to 1 month‘s basic pay. In the case of gross negligence or willful
    misconduct or abuse, members are liable for the full amount of damages or loss. AFMAN
    23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, provides guidance on how to determine
    responsibility and financial liability.
       2.10.1. Damages to Housing. Damages to quarters beyond reasonable wear and tear are
       the responsibility of the military resident. When damage has occurred, the sponsor has
       options on how repair or replacement can be made (for example, you may hire a
       contractor to do the work or make the repairs yourself). All repairs must meet Air Force
       standards, regardless of who accomplishes the work. Please call the Housing Facilities
       Section (0631-536-7108) if you have questions.
       2.10.2. Insurance. While occupying family housing, you are highly encouraged to
       purchase commercial insurance such as renter‘s insurance to protect yourself in case of a
       loss. You should consider a policy that covers not only your personal property, but also
       provides coverage for any damage or loss to the housing unit, equipment or furnishings.
       Further, you should consider a policy that provides liability insurance in the event
       someone is injured in your housing unit.
RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011                                                                  9


         2.10.3. Determining Replacement Costs. In determining replacement costs, Housing
         uses the table below to determine the amount for each grade and bedroom size.
         Replacement costs are calculated based on the Department of Defense Family Housing
         Cost Model.

Table 3. Replacement Costs.

                                  Bedrooms                          Amount
E1/E6                             2                                 $145,000
                                  2 (modified)                      $160,000
                                  3                                 $175,000
                                  4                                 $210,000
                                  5                                 $250,000
E7/E8 and O1/O3                   2                                 $160,000
                                  2 (modified)                      $180,000
                                  3                                 $200,000
                                  4                                 $230,000
                                  5                                 $270,000
O4/O5                             3                                 $220,000
                                  4                                 $250,000
O6                                4                                 $270,000
07/010                            4                                 $360,000
07/010 (command)                  4                                 $395,000



     2.11. Energy Conservation. You and your family members are responsible to use utilities
     wisely and eliminate waste. Always promptly report any malfunctions to the Housing
     Maintenance Service Call Desk at 06371-46-39510.
         2.11.1. Water. Think Conservation—unnecessary water use leads to additional
         wastewater treatment expense. Clean faucet screens/strainers/aerators frequently.
         2.11.2. Heating. Recommend temperature control on radiators/thermostats be set at 3.
         Conservation efforts result in large heating fuel cost savings. The 86 AW/CC makes the
         determination as to when heat will be turned on/off in the KMC to include MFH. The 86
         CEG is responsible for monitoring weather changes. The high and low temperature is
         taken every day and if the average is above or below 55 degrees Fahrenheit for 5
         consecutive days, heat will be turned on or off accordingly. To help reduce heating costs,
         please follow these procedures:
 10                                                 RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011


- Keep exterior doors and windows closed when using radiators.
- Make sure radiators are not covered/blocked by furniture or hanging drapes.
- Clean your refrigerator condenser coils at least every other month.



       2.11.3. Electricity. Please ensure that lights and appliances are turned off when not in
       use. Unplug transformers as they continue to use power even when turned off. Your
       commitment to conserving electricity helps to ensure costs remain manageable.
   2.12. Introduce Yourself To Your Building Leader (Multi-family Facility
   Resident). You are responsible to introduce yourself to the building leader in your building
   within 10 calendar days of moving into your quarters. This informational meeting will start
   you out on the right foot for an enjoyable stay in the KMC–beside that, it‘s what good
   neighbors do!
   2.13. Government Furnished Appliances. Ranges, refrigerators, washers, dryers and
   dishwashers are government-furnished and serviced. If you have problems, do not attempt
   repairs or adjustments. Problems should be called in as a service call to the housing
   maintenance contractor, 06371-463-9510, IAW paragraph 1.1.2 of this Instruction. No
   government-owned appliance shall be removed or relocated.
   2.14. Privately-Owned Appliances. Occupant-owned refrigerators or freezers may be
   used. Please contact Housing Facilities prior to installing an additional appliance to ensure
   your electrical circuit is adequate.
   2.15. MFH U-Fix-It Store(s). MFH U-Fix-It stores are located at Landstuhl, Vogelweh and
   Ramstein. We encourage you to use the U-Fix-It Store to get supplies. Numerous items for
   maintaining your home, such as cabinet door latches/knobs, door bumper stops, door handles,
   touch-up paint, commode seats, towel bars and toilet paper spindles may be obtained.
   2.16. Pest Control. Tenants are responsible for taking appropriate self-help measures
   regarding any pest infestations. Facilities with pest infestations that do not respond to
   properly applied self-help measures after 30 days may be treated by Pest Management
   personnel. Pest Management must survey unit to determine reasons for self-help pest control
   failure before treatment.
   2.17. Stairwells (Multi-Family Stairwell Facilities). Due to safety and stairwell access
   (egress) concerns, items such as shoes, bicycles, toys, furniture, potted plants or refuse shall
   not be placed in your stairwell. You may neatly display a nameplate, wreath or wall
   decoration and foldable strollers may be neatly stored under stairs. DO NOT NAIL OR
   SCREW ANYTHING TO THE WOOD DOOR OR FRAME.
   2.18. Basements. Storage rooms may only be used for personal storage. Common areas,
   hallways, bike rooms and community rooms are not for personal storage areas and all
   residents are responsible to ensure these areas remain clutter free.
   2.19. Balconies. Refuse and unsightly items, such as mops, brooms and cleaning supplies
   will not be stored on or under balconies and pets should not be left on balconies unattended.
   Balconies are intended for recreational outdoor living, not as storage spaces.
RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011                                                              11


  2.20. Seasonal Decorations. Exterior seasonal decorations on balconies of multi-family
  facilities and in townhouse yards may be displayed 30 days prior to seasonal event and must
  be removed no later than 10 days after event. Do not place or attach decorations on or to
  balcony railings, entrance doors canopies, on roofs or to gutters. DO NOT USE NAILS OR
  SCREWS ON WOOD DOORS OR DOOR FRAMES. All electrical connections for
  seasonal decorations must meet UL or DIN requirements. 220V-110V transformers may not
  be used outside.
  2.21. Gardens. Vegetable gardens are prohibited in MFH.
  2.22. Waterbeds. Waterbeds are prohibited in MFH.
  2.23. Smoking. Smoking is strictly prohibited in all KMC Multi-Family Stairwell Housing.
  This policy is intended to improve our readiness posture by increasing the well-being of all
  stairwell housing residents. Service members, their dependents and guests are not authorized
  to smoke tobacco products in stairwell apartments, including the balconies, patios, storage
  and community rooms, as well as exterior common areas, except for designated smoking
  areas, which include all grill huts. However, if a grill hut is being used by non-smokers, the
  right of the non-smoker(s) will prevail. Smokers will ensure non-smokers utilizing the grill
  huts are not impacted by second-hand smoke. Residents who choose to smoke are
  responsible for proper and complete disposal of their tobacco products to include cigarette
  butts, cigars, matches and packaging materials.
  2.24. Satellite Dishes/Antennas. Satellite dishes and antennas of any kind are prohibited in
  MFH.
  2.25. Storage Sheds. External storage sheds are prohibited in MFH.
  2.26. Air Conditioners. Air conditioners are prohibited in MFH.
  2.27. Window Coverings. Aluminum foil (tin foil), tinting film, newspaper, signs,
  advertisements, blankets, etc., are prohibited window coverings in MFH. Traditional curtains
  and blinds are the only authorized window covering in MFH.
  2.28. Flag Display. Townhouse residents may display one American flag properly mounted
  on the wooden post per housing U-Fix-It Store instructions. American flags are available for
  housing residents at the U-Fix-It Store.
  2.29. Noise Control.
     2.29.1. Excessive noise is the primary complaint received by Housing Management.
     Many military personnel are shift workers and sleep during the day. Please be
     considerate. Daily ―Quiet Hours‖ are from 2200 to 0600 hours and from 1300 to 1500
     hours. Unnecessary noise, such as excessive dog barking/howling, loud music or
     slamming vehicle or apartment doors is prohibited.
     2.29.2. Noise Enforcement. Residents should contact Security Forces to report noise
     violations. Organizational commanders will take appropriate action through the chain of
     command against violators.
  2.30. Personal Owned Exterior Recreation Equipment and Outdoor Recreation Areas
     2.30.1. We cannot possibly list all personal recreational equipment or amenities that you
     may choose for your family. It is your personal responsibility to ensure play equipment,
 12                                                 RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011


       grills, trampolines, swing sets, basketball goals and other types of play stations are
       installed properly and according to manufacturer‘s specifications. The Air Force is not
       responsible for any injuries resulting from the improper installation or care of personal
       recreational equipment or amenities.
       2.30.2. Wading Pools. Use of small wading pools is authorized under adult supervision.
       For safety, the pool:
- Will not be more than 8 inches deep and 5 feet in diameter.
- Will NEVER be left unattended with water in it.




       2.30.3. Grill Huts and Outdoor Recreation Area Pads. The use of grill huts, outdoor
       recreation area pads, picnic tables and benches are on a ―first come‖ basis. Please be
       considerate of neighbors during quiet hours. Bonfires inside grill huts or in the housing
       areas are prohibited. User is responsible for clean up and proper disposal of trash.
       2.30.4. Personal Barbecue Grills. BBQ grills stored in grill huts shall be marked with
       member‘s building and unit number for easy identification. Grills should be kept away
       from siding, overhangs, deck rails, and porches. Do not light grills in garages or
       unventilated areas.
       2.30.5. Playgrounds and Mini-Sports Areas. Playgrounds and mini-sports areas are
       open for the use of all MFH residents from dawn to dusk every day. Please be
       considerate of neighbors during quiet hours. The user is responsible for clean up and
       proper disposal of trash.
   2.31. Supervision/Unattended Children. Children should be closely supervised at all
   times. Parents are ultimately responsible for the safety and supervision of their children.
   Parents must consider several factors when they consider leaving their children unsupervised,
   including (1) the age and maturity of the child, (2) duration and frequency of time without
   direct adult supervision, (3) child‘s ability to seek help, (4) mental, physical and emotional
   handicapping conditions, (5) number and ages of children left without supervision, (6)
   responsibility given to the unsupervised child, (7) nature and setting of unsupervised activity
   and (8) relevant KMC instructions.
   2.32. Pets. Pet ownership in Germany and in government quarters is a privilege. Pet
   owners must register their pet(s) with the Veterinary Clinic located on Pulaski Barracks
   within 10 working days after arrival in the KMC or when the animal is 4 months old. A
   current rabies shot is required for registration. Animals must be re-registered annually. The
   total number of dogs and/or cats will not exceed two per MFH unit. Breeds (cross-breeds)
   of dogs that are restricted or prohibited in Germany are Pit Bull, American Staffordshire
   Terrier, Staffordshire Bull Terrier, Ban dog and Tosa Inu and therefore these breeds are
   prohibited in family housing. Wild, farm or exotic animals are prohibited. Breeding or
   raising pets for profit or fun is prohibited. Nursing litters will not exceed 4 months after
   birth.
RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011                                                               13


       2.32.1. Cleaning Up After Your Pet. Pet owners are responsible for immediate
       removal of their pet's feces from all areas. Pet relief stations are located throughout
       housing areas. Pets are not allowed on playgrounds or sports fields and please do not
       allow pets to urinate or defecate on balconies.
       2.32.2. Pet control. When outdoors, pets must be on a leash and a responsible person
       must be in control of the animal at all times. Dogs and cats may roam unsupervised
       within a fenced enclosure only if they are unable to jump the fence or do not cause a
       nuisance to neighbors. Pets may not be left unattended on a chain or leash inside of a
       fenced area. Pets will not be housed on balconies or other areas outside of assigned
       quarters. Pet damage is owner responsibility.
       2.32.3. Dog Bites: Report all dog bites or pet assaults to Security Forces.
   2.33. Safety Alert. All windows and balcony doors above the first floor level have been
   fitted with a key operated locking device to prevent opening. Watch your children as
   window screens will not prevent a fall out of the window. LOCKS ARE NOT INTENDED
   TO TAKE THE PLACE OF PARENTAL SUPERVISION.
   2.34. Self Help Work. All self-help work requires completion of an AF Form 332, Base
   Civil Engineer Work Request. The form is available at Housing Management in building
   1001 Vogelweh or the Ramstein Satellite Office, building 2410.
       2.34.1. Self-help work is permitted in housing if the proposed work is relatively simple,
       and is primarily for the resident‘s benefit. Self-help work must not generate additional
       maintenance requirements or repair costs to the government; must not add to the living or
       storage area of the basic structure by increasing space; must not increase permanent
       living areas by enclosing and weatherproofing existing balconies, storage, carports, etc;
       and must not require using government-furnished labor. Examples of self-help work
       which are normally approved; painting, shelving and wall paper/border. All electrical
       and plumbing work will be accomplished by a certified craftsman. Self-help work
       installed by residents must be removed prior to final inspection unless accepted, in
       writing, by incoming resident and the housing representative. When removing self-help
       work, area must be restored to its original condition. If you have any questions, ask your
       Housing representative at your pre-final inspection.
       2.34.2. Painting Interior Walls. An approved AF Form 332 is required prior to
       painting. Paint will not be issued for any color change and the painted areas must be
       returned to the original color prior to terminating quarters.
   2.35. Attic Space. The attic spaces above your upper level and your garage are not designed
   as living or storage areas. These spaces are not protected by a smoke/fire alarm system and
   are not environmentally controlled, heated or ventilated. The government claims no
   responsibility for damage of personal property placed in these areas.
3. TERMINATION OF MFH. Upon termination, your unit must be left clean and orderly.
Remove personal property, self-help work and arrange for government furniture to be picked up,
prior to your final clearance. Do not forget to check balconies, patios and storage areas. Once
all requirements are met you will be cleared from quarters and your housing allowance will be
initiated.
14                                                RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011


  3.1. Final Inspections: Paragraph 1.4.5. discusses inspections related to termination of
  MFH.
  3.2. Methods of Termination:
     3.2.1. Giving Notice With Orders. When you receive notification of orders for a PCS
     move, retirement, discharge or separation, you must notify Housing a MINIMUM OF 40
     DAYS IN ADVANCE OF YOUR DESIRED FINAL INSPECTION DATE. During
     peak months (April through September), it is recommended you give at least 60 days
     notice in order to obtain desired termination date. Call Housing at commercial 0631-536-
     6671/72 to schedule your pre-final and final inspection dates. The Air Force is not
     responsible for a delay in final inspection due to a failure to properly notify Housing of
     an impending PCS.
     3.2.2. Voluntary Termination of On Base Quarters. After completion of a mandatory
     1-year occupancy, residents who desire to voluntarily vacate government quarters must
     provide a written request and receive approval from the Housing Office at least 40 days
     prior to desired final inspection date. A sample termination letter is available.
     3.2.3. Family Separation. A member who no longer lives with his or her dependents
     (or dependents no longer live with the member) is required to terminate housing within
     30 days.
4. COMMUNITY/RESIDENTAL ACTIVITIES.
  4.1. Yard Sales/Garage Sales. Sales in family housing are permitted on Saturdays only.
  Residents are encouraged to utilize the various community activity centers for recurring sales
  of personal property. Sales must be coordinated with building leaders in multi-family
  stairwell units to schedule common area use. Parking issues and disturbance of neighbors is
  reason to terminate sale. Residents may not use signs to advertise sales anywhere within the
  KMC housing areas.
  4.2. Business Enterprises. Requests for permission to conduct commercial activities in
  assigned family housing must be submitted in writing to the Housing Director, 86 CES/CEH.
  Written approval from the 86 AW/CC must be granted prior to starting the business.
  4.3. Solicitation in Military Family Housing. Solicitation and fund-raising require prior
  approval of the 86 AW/CC. No flyers or handbills are permitted in MFH areas. Solicitation
  by unauthorized businesses, organizations or groups is strictly prohibited.
  4.4. Family Day Care Providers. Before providing childcare in your home, you must be
  licensed through the Family Day Care Program. In compliance with AFI 34-276 (Family
  Child Care Programs), any person caring for other families‘ children for more than 10 hours
  per week on a regular basis in on-base housing must be licensed by the Air Force and meet
  all Air Force and local installation requirements. Homes can accommodate up to six children
  and includes only two children under 2 years old. Residents can contact the Family Child
  Care Program in building 408 on Ramstein, call DSN 480-5761 or commercial 06371-47-
  5761 or building 1044 on Vogelweh, call DSN 489-6040 or commercial 0631-536-6040.
  4.5. Repair of Personal Property. Repair work on your vehicle, recreational vehicle or
  boat/trailer is not authorized. The Auto Skills Centers or an off-base location should be used
RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011                                                                   15


   for major repairs.    Auto Skills Centers are located on Kapaun, Pulaski, Ramstein and
   Landstuhl.
   4.6. Fireworks. Fireworks are prohibited.
   4.7. Parking. Parking in any manner that constitutes a public nuisance, safety hazard,, or
   impedance to fire, police, medical or snow removal operations is strictly prohibited. Each
   townhouse residence is provided a garage and driveway for parking. Each multi-family
   stairwell resident is assigned one designated parking space. Additional vehicles must be
   parked at an unmarked or undesignated parking space. On street parking is allowed if it is a
   designated parking slot. At no time will a non-operational and/or unregistered privately
   owned vehicle be parked within MFH. Parking is prohibited within 5 meters (16 feet) of a
   fire hydrant, intersection, emergency exit doors of buildings, crosswalks, garbage receptacles
   and driveways. Parking which blocks sidewalks is prohibited.
   4.8. Parking Recreational Vehicles or Trailers in MFH. Except for loading or unloading,
   trailers, campers and other recreational vehicles will not be parked in any MFH area. The
   recreational vehicle lot is located in Kapaun Air Station (AS). For more information,
   contact the Kapaun Auto Skills Center.
5. FIRE PROTECTION. As the military sponsor it is your responsibility to instruct all family
members in fire prevention and evacuation procedures.
   5.1. Prevention Instructions. All residents of MFH must receive a mandatory fire prevention
   briefing prior to occupancy. A computerized briefing is available at the Housing Office and on the
   housing website http://www.ramstein.af.mil/library/factsheets/factsheet.asp?id=13946
   5.2. Fire Evacuation Plan. All MFH residents must create and practice an evacuation plan.
   It may save the life of a loved one. The Fire Department should be made aware of
   handicapped family members.
   5.3. Fire Protection Systems. The fire protections systems located in your home have been
   installed for the protection of your family and your neighbors. THEY WILL SAVE YOUR
   LIFE – DO NOT TAMPER WITH THEM. If you have problem with a fire protection
   system in your home, IMMEDIATELY report it to Housing Maintenance 24/7.
   5.4. Fire Extinguishers. In multi-unit stairwell units, fire extinguishers are installed in the
   stairwell on every other floor. Determine the location of the nearest extinguisher before you
   need it.
   5.5. Fire Reporting. If a fire occurs in your home, notify the base Fire Department
   immediately. Remain calm. Provide your name, house number and street. Do not hang up
   until told to do so by the operator. Report all fires regardless of size, lack of damage or
   whether fire has been extinguished. To report a fire dial 06371-47-112.
   5.6. Ceiling Fans and Smoke Detectors. One of the primary causes of smoke detector false
   alarms is the accumulation of dust on fan blades. Ceiling fan blades accumulate dust very
   quickly and when the fan is turned on the dust becomes airborne and the smoke detector
   activates causing a false alarm. Please keep the blades clean and dust free.
   5.7. Storage of Flammable Liquids. If you reside in a multi-unit stairwell facility, contact
   your building leader for proper storage of gasoline or other flammable liquids. If you reside
   in a single, duplex or townhouse unit, gasoline shall be stored in an approved safety container
 16                                               RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011


   with contents labeled and is limited to not more than 5 gallons. Flammables may only be
   stored in the garage. No storage is allowed in the utility room or in attic space. DO NOT
   STORE PROPANE GAS TANKS INSIDE OF UNIT.
   5.8. Clothes Dryer/Vent. Clean clothes dryer lint trap after each use. Never place plastic
   articles in dryer. Check and clean the flexible hose connected to your dryer for lint
   accumulation at least once a month.
   5.9. Cooking Appliances. Never leave cooking items unattended. Should a grease fire
   occur, cover the burning pan with a lid, turn off the appliance and call the Fire Department.
   NEVER USE WATER! DO NOT ATTEMPT TO MOVE THE PAN! Clean kitchen
   exhaust fan filter often to prevent grease accumulation.
   5.10. Housekeeping. Keep trash from accumulating in closets, attics, storage areas or near
   wall heaters (radiators). Combustible materials including clothing should not be placed
   adjacent to or within 2 feet of water heater, radiator or similar appliances. NOTE: ANY
   QUESTIONS ON FIRE PREVENTION SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO THE BASE
   FIRE PREVENTION DEPARTMENT – Commercial 06371-47-5940
6. SECURITY FORCES. The 86 AW/CC is responsible for the safety and protection of all
personnel and government property. Military Security Forces routinely patrol housing areas and
respond and investigate all incidents. Inquiries concerning law enforcement should be directed
to Security Forces.
   6.1. MFH Curfew Hours. Do you know where your children are? Children under 18 years
   old must be inside their quarters between the hours of 2300 and 0600 hours.
   6.2. Speed Limit. Speed limits in all KMC housing areas are 20 kph and are posted and are
   enforced by Security Forces.
   6.3. Firearms. Privately owned firearms may not be stored in MFH. You may store them at
   the 86th Security Forces Squadron Primary Armory, building 2189, Ramstein AB. Please
   contact the Security Forces Armory at DSN 480-5916/2404 for further information regarding
   the storage/use of privately-owned weapons. Refer to 86 AW Integrated Defense Plan 31-
   101 Para C-2-M-3 for complete guidance on the control and registration and local
   procedures.     Also refer to AER 190-6, Registration and Control of Privately Owned
   Firearms and Other Weapons in Germany/USAFE 31-205 (CNE-C6F INST
   5300.15Q/USAFE INST 31-205)
   6.4. Crime Stop. Call 112 (all areas) to report a crime or emergency in progress.
   6.5. Privately Owned, Gasoline-Powered Equipment. Motorcycles, motorbikes, motor
   scooters, mopeds and other privately owned, gasoline-powered equipment will be parked in
   an authorized parking slot. They will not be stored in member‘s apartment, basement,
   storage rooms/cages, bicycle room, stairwell, etc. Additionally, they may not be parked on
   sidewalks, on bench/picnic table pads or any other bricked surface.
   6.6. Motor Vehicle Registration. All privately-owned vehicles must be registered with
   569th USFPS at Kapaun AS- to include inoperative vehicles pending repair or disposal. Do
   not park inoperative registered vehicles in family housing areas.
7. SPECIAL CLIMATIC CONDITIONS. In Germany, winter driving is a fact of life.
Drivers in the KMC have several sources to receive current road conditions primary
RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011                                                                 17


www.ramstein.af.mil, secondary AFN, TV, radio and DSN 480-COLD, etc. Television reports
appear regularly as a message crawler on the bottom of the screen during severe weather.
Information is also available via the web on the Ramstein Web site. KMC residents can also
receive the latest information by calling DSN 480-2653 (DSN 480-COLD) or 06371-47-2653.
8. ENVIRONMENT. German laws regarding environmental protection apply to all
government MFH occupants and are quite stringent.
   8.1. Asbestos Concerns. Residents should be aware that asbestos may exist in stairwell
   buildings, and is presently being controlled and monitored by Environmental Compliance
   and the 86th Medical Group Bioenvironmental Engineering department. If you have any
   concerns or questions, call 86 CES/CEA, at DSN 480-7712, or Bioenvironmental at DSN
   479-2220.
   8.2. Mold. Due to the type of construction used in Germany, improper ventilation may
   cause mold to grow on walls and furniture. Mold can be responsible for irritant and allergic
   reactions. Controlling mold is a matter of controlling moisture. Plainly put, if there‘s a mold
   problem, it starts with moisture, and that must be stopped before mold can be cleaned and
   controlled. Once the moisture problem is cured, it is very likely that mold won‘t come back.
   Residents are required to take steps to properly ventilate their MFH units. Ventilate your
   home daily for a minimum of 2 times twenty minutes daily. Cross ventilation is necessary so
   interior doors must be opened along with windows on opposing sides. If there is no exhaust
   fan in bathroom, window should be ajar to let humid air out. Furniture should not be placed
   against walls as it prevents air circulation. To help prevent mold in your quarters, we
   recommend the following measures:
- Dry condensation from damp/affected areas
- Increase air circulation by using a household fan, kitchen vent hood exhaust while cooking and
bathroom exhaust fans/windows when shower is in use.
- Minimize dust accumulation throughout the house and clean mildew from visible surfaces
using a detergent and water or mild household cleaner, wearing ordinary household rubber
gloves.
- Report recurring leaks and persistent mold, mildew and moisture to Housing.


Upon notification, a housing inspector and a maintenance service provider will jointly conduct a
visual inspection to identify mold growth and water leaks on wall surfaces and in building
systems. If mold is located in multiple areas or is extensive the resident may be temporarily
relocated. Mold-related health concerns should be referred to a health care provider for
evaluation. Bioenvironmental Engineering may conduct an appropriate health risk assessment.
Based on recommendation, relocation may be required.
   8.3. Hazardous Waste. There are numerous household products that contain chemicals that
   become hazardous waste when disposed of improperly. Never pour motor oil or any other
   hazardous substance down the storm drain. It goes directly into nearby streams and ground
   water. It could also result in disciplinary actions. It only takes a few particles of oil to
   contaminate a million parts of water. With just a little bit of effort you can reduce the threat
   of hazardous waste in our community. We all should act responsibly when using and
18                                              RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011


  disposing of these products. First, purchase only what you need and use the hazardous
  substances altogether; that is, use products without toxic chemicals. Lastly, if hazardous
  items are to be used in the home, dispose of them and their containers responsibility.
  Household hazardous waste is accepted at the recycling centers during normal hours of
  operation. If you need advice on the proper disposal of a certain substance or if you have
  concerns, call the 86 CES Environmental Management Section at DSN 480-9318.




                                         MARK C. DILLON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                         Commander, 86th Airlift Wing
RAMSTEINABPAM32-602 27 MAY 2011                                                       19


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-6001, Family Housing Management, 21 August 2006
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
USAFE 31-205, Registration and Control of Privately Owned Firearms and Other Weapons in
Germany/USAFE 31-205 (CNE-C6F INST 5300.15Q/USAFE INST 31-205), 20 July 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
86 AW/CC—86 Airlift Wing, Commander
86 CEG/CC—86 Civil Engineer Group, Commander
86 CES/CEH—86 Civil Engineer Squadron, Housing Management
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AOR—Area of Responsibility
BAH—Basic Allowance for Housing
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFRIMS—Air Force Information Management System
IAW—In Accordance With
KMC—Kaiserslautern Military Community
MFH—Military Family Housing
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
