BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             RAMSTEIN AIR BASE
RAMSTEIN AIR BASE                                                    INSTRUCTION 36-2901

                                                                            13 AUGUST 2013

                                                                                    Personnel

                                               COMMANDER’S EMPHASIS ON MILITARY
                                                                     STANDARDS


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 86 AW/CCK                                                        Certified by: 86 AW/CV
                                                                     (Col Kenneth T. Bibb Jr.)
                                                                                     Pages: 18



This instruction implements AFPD 36-29, Military Standards. This instruction provides
guidance that was formerly found in 86th Airlift Wing Commander (86 AW/CC) Policy Letters.
This instruction supersedes all guidance provided in previous 86th Airlift Wing Commander (86
AW/CC) Policy Letters on the same subjects. It applies to all organizations on Ramstein Air
Base and Air Force geographically separated installations in the Kaiserslautern Military
Community unless otherwise specified in subsequent paragraphs. Military members who violate
the specific prohibitions contained in this instruction can be prosecuted under Article 92,
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), or any other article from the UCMJ, as appropriate.
Direct questions or comments on the contents of this instruction, through appropriate channels,
to 86th Airlift Wing, Unit 3300, APO AE 09094. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363_USAFESUP, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force Records Management
System (AFRIMS): https://www.my.af.mil/gcssaf61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
 2                                                 RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013


1. Responsible Alcohol Use
     1.1. Alcohol Related Incidents (ARIs) are a serious issue for our Airmen, families, and local
     community. ARIs directly affect our ability to conduct our military mission, disrupt unit
     manning and productivity, and create additional burdens on unit leadership.
     1.2. Airmen can and must make responsible choices involving alcohol consumption. ARIs
     are avoidable—the circumstances leading up to them are directly shaped by our choices. We
     must make responsible choices, and our decisions must reflect “service before self.” No
     excuse can justify the behavior, which negatively impacts our mission, people, and
     community. Therefore, our bottom line is: “No ARIs…No Excuses…Drink Responsibly!”
     1.3. Our first pillar for combating ARIs is Mission Focus. ARIs directly impede mission
     success by creating additional workloads such as investigations, medical attention, and
     disciplinary proceedings, thereby distracting us from our mission. ARIs result in harmful
     and costly consequences, including the death of our Airmen. We must discuss the negative
     impact of alcohol abuse on mission accomplishment with our Airmen.
     1.4. Our second pillar for defeating ARIs is Taking Care of Each Other. We must
     reinvigorate the Wingman concept. A Wingman should never be our excuse for irresponsible
     choices and behaviors. Wingmen must step in before a situation escalates and help ensure
     right decisions are made in the first place. Most importantly, Airmen should not make
     choices that put their wingmen in vulnerable or risky positions.
     1.5. Our third pillar for eliminating ARIs is Personal Accountability.             Personal
     accountability means taking ownership of our actions and adhering to Air Force standards
     and core values. Using the core values as a guide is essential to good decision-making. On
     and off duty decisions can have significant impacts on our mission, units and families. Our
     nation depends on responsible and reliable Airmen.
     1.6. We need to be mindful of what alcohol related incidents cost us. Many Airmen with
     great potential have ended their careers because they failed to meet their personal
     responsibility due to poor choices and often criminal behavior related to the use of alcohol.
     Our mission, Airmen and families demand responsible alcohol use—anything less will
     directly undermine the defense of our nation.
     1.7. In accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 44-121, Alcohol and Drug Abuse
     Prevention and Treatment (Adapt) Program, unit commanders will refer all service members
     to the ADAPT program when substance use is suspected to be a contributing factor in any
     incident, e.g., DUI/driving while intoxicated (DWI), public intoxication, drunk and
     disorderly, spouse/child abuse and maltreatment, under-aged drinking, positive drug test, or
     medical incidents.
     1.8. Referrals can be made by calling ADAPT at DSN 479-2390. Referrals will occur
     within seven (7) calendar days of the incident.
2. Courtesy Patrols
     2.1. Courtesy patrols are defined as wing, group, and squadron leadership joining the 569th
     United States Forces Police Squadron (USFPS) and host nation law enforcement personnel to
     conduct foot patrols throughout the high-density “Walk Platz” area of Kaiserslautern.
     Courtesy patrols provide wing leadership with vital situational awareness regarding the
RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013                                                               3


   presence of our Airmen in downtown Kaiserslautern during late night hours. Individuals
   conducting courtesy patrols with the 569 USFPS will attend a safety or post briefing prior to
   accompanying security forces members to the downtown area.
   2.2. 86 AW group commanders, deputy group commanders, group superintendents,
   squadron commanders and squadron first sergeants will perform a courtesy patrol within 90
   days of being in that position. 86 AW group leadership will track and enforce compliance
   within their groups.
   2.3. Tenant organization commanders will determine specific requirements for Courtesy
   Patrol participation.
3. General Order Regarding Personnel Curfew
   3.1. Curfew policies are intended to protect service members and reduce the potential for
   off-duty misconduct, mishaps and incidents. When deemed necessary, the 86 AW/CC will
   establish a curfew for all assigned personnel. Curfew orders will be disseminated through
   official channels including, but not limited to: unit recall, livewire, and/or mass email. When
   implemented, the 86 AW/CC will provide specific procedures.
4. Child Supervision
   4.1. The child supervision matrix (Attachment 2) provides standards for the supervision of
   children within the KMC. Parents are ultimately responsible for the welfare and actions of
   their children, and failure to exercise those parental responsibilities may constitute child
   neglect. Parents must use good judgment and consider the physical, emotional and
   psychological maturity of their child when determining the level of supervision required.
   Children with a history of ADHD, ADD, Developmental Delay, behavior problems,
   impulsivity, psychiatric problems or other impairments should not be given the degree of
   self-management/responsibility indicated in the child supervision matrix.
5. Military Pass Sign-Out Procedures
   5.1. Commanders will establish appropriate accountability procedures for military members
   within their respective groups. These procedures shall include, at a minimum, the following:
   5.2. All military members who travel outside the "local duty area" (defined for this
   instruction as a 200-mile radius from Ramstein Air Base or the center of a geographically
   separated unit) will sign out through procedures established by unit commanders.
   Commanders and supervisors will ensure that Airmen are using solid Operational Risk
   Management (ORM) and safety principles for their travel planning (i.e. appropriate modes of
   travel, driving times, lodging reservations, etc).
   5.3. Military members will enter appropriate contact information on an AF Form 4392,
   Predeparture Safety Briefing prior to departure. For accountability purposes, unit
   commanders shall be able to provide a copy of the AF Form 4392 at any time.
   5.4. For members traveling solely within the local duty area, sign out is required when such
   travel includes an overnight stay away from the member's primary residence and if the
   member cannot be reached at a phone number provided on the unit recall roster.
   5.5. As part of the sign out process, commanders will ensure that members traveling outside
   of Germany (or Host Nation for GSUs) have all appropriate travel documents (passports,
 4                                                   RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013


     visa, International Drivers License, Green Insurance card, etc.). Commanders will ensure
     that prior to such travel, members review current travel requirements and restrictions listed in
     the Department of Defense (DoD) Foreign Clearance Guide (https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil/ ).
6. Prohibition of Use of Flash Media Devices
     6.1. Due to availability and affordability, the use of external USB memory devices has
     increased dramatically. These devices include external hard drives, memory sticks, thumb
     drives, smart phones, MP3/4 players, digital cameras, and any other USB devices capable of
     storing information. These devices pose serious information assurance security risks and
     expose the Ramstein Enterprise Network to possible damage and the theft or accidental
     release of sensitive information by circumventing network perimeter defenses.
     6.2. Connecting any external USB memory device to the Ramstein Enterprise Network
     computer systems is prohibited unless the device has been specifically approved by the unit
     Information Assurance Officer. Furthermore, approved devices may only be attached to the
     Ramstein Enterprise Network computer systems by individual users who have been approved
     by their commander to connect external USB memory devices. These restrictions apply to
     all networked computer systems, regardless of the physical location (Ramstein Airbase (AB),
     Vogelweh AB, Geographical Separated Units (GSUs), etc.) or if the system is temporarily
     removed from the Ramstein Enterprise Network (Temporary Duty (TDY) or VPN from
     home).
     6.3. The 86th Communications Squadron monitors compliance by actively scanning the
     network for unauthorized USB memory devices. When an unauthorized USB memory
     device is connected, the computer records the USB memory device’s serial number and
     tracks the user who logged in to that computer at the time.
     6.4. Users who violate this policy: (1) will be reported to the 86th Communications
     Squadron Commander (86 CS/CC), (2) will have their network account temporarily disabled,
     (3) will re-accomplish annual Information Assurance training, (4) will have their Squadron
     Commander (or equivalent) report a synopsis of corrective actions to the 86 CS/CC for
     network access restoral, (5) and, if currently approved for use of approved USB devices, will
     have USB device privileges suspended for a 6-month period.
7. Off-Base Uniform Wear
     7.1. During Force Protection Condition (FPCON) Normal, Alpha, and Bravo, wearing of
     military uniforms off base is authorized with the following caveats:
     7.2. Personnel traveling via commercial means (aircraft, trains, buses, etc.) will wear civilian
     clothing and when possible, not carry items that readily convey a DoD affiliation.
     7.3. Uniform wear on local public transportation is limited to taxi use only.
     7.4. Personnel will limit activities off base in uniform and avoid locations where uniforms
     are inappropriate or where alcohol is regularly served (i.e., bars, pubs, etc.).
     7.5. For planned gatherings of less than 50 uniformed individuals, the senior sponsoring
     member determines if uniform wear is appropriate. Off-base gatherings of 50+ in uniform
     require threat working group review and obtain garrison/installation commander approval.
RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013                                                                5


   7.6. During FPCON Charlie or Delta, the off-base uniform policy will be directed by
   applicable garrison/installation commander.
8. Designated No-Hat Areas
   8.1. The following areas are designated as permanent no-hat areas at Ramstein AB,
   Vogelweh and Kapaun Air Station (AS).
   8.2. The flight line aircraft maintenance areas, to include the area surrounding the Dual Bay
   Hangar, bldg 2018 (86 Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (AMXS)).
   8.3. Areas 200 feet around bldgs 2019, 2295, 2214, and 2208 within maintenance areas (86
   Maintenance Squadron (MXS)).
   8.4. Area between bldgs 2210 and 2291 (37 AS).
   8.5. Area between bldgs 2330 and 1331 (76 AS).
   8.6. The flight line and maintenance areas around bldgs 2089 and 2231 (86 AMXS).
   8.7. Areas around fuels flight bldgs 2283, 2310, 2314 and fuel truck parking area (86
   Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS).
   8.8. AMC aircraft parking area and areas around bldgs 2368 and 3330 (721 Air Mobility
   Squadron (AMXS).
   8.9. Cargo handling areas inside fenced area surrounding bldg 3334 and 3335 (721 APS).
   8.10. Immediate vicinity of bldg 2356 (721 AMXS).
   8.11. Fenced area adjacent to bldgs 2693 and 2694 (86 Munitions Squadron (MUNS).
   8.12. Inside the fenced area of the Joint Mobility Processing Center (86 LRS).
   8.13. General Purpose Vehicle Compound (86 Vehicle Readiness Squadron (VRS).
   8.14. Special Purpose Vehicle Compound (86 VRS).
   8.15. Munitions Storage Area to include inside the fence line of building 2696 (86 MUNS).
   8.16. Cryogenics Storage Area, building 2050, inside fence line and liquid oxygen (LOX)
   cart ready line (86 LRS).
   8.17. Entire Combat Arms Training Complex (569 USFPS).
   8.18. The area inside the fence from building 2220 to Ramp 6, Ramp 1, and Dual Bay (86
   AMXS).
   8.19. Picnic, barbeque and athletic areas may be designated as "No Hat Areas" by group or
   squadron commanders only during special functions.
   8.20. Area between back doors of bldg. 2388 (521 AMOW).
   8.21. The sidewalk connecting the Area Dental Lab entrance to the south entrance of
   building 31 (86 DS).
   8.22. Hats are to be worn at all times in all other outdoor locations, to include outdoor eating
   areas run by Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES), 86th Force Support Squadron
   (FSS) and/or concessionaires.
 6                                                   RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013


     8.23. Guidance for the establishment of "no hat" areas stipulates that these areas be
     designated as such only for mission or safety reasons. They are not designated for
     convenience and should be kept to an absolute minimum. The above locations have been
     reviewed and validated by the Kaiserslautern Military Community (KMC) First Sergeants in
     consultation with their commanders.
9. Wear of Unit Designator on Desert Sand T-Shirt
     9.1. Personnel are authorized the wear of unit designation on the desert sand t-shirt. The silk
     screen will be affixed to the left side of the chest and will not exceed five inches in diameter.
     Unit designations will be limited to unit emblems/patches only.
10. Sage Green Fleece
     10.1. Personnel are authorized indoor wear of the sage green fleece when working in an
     open-door hangar/bay/garage. All other indoor wear of the sage green fleece will be
     explicitly determined by the Wing Commander.
11. Wear of the Black Watch Cap
     11.1. Personnel are authorized wear of the black watch cap from 1 October through 15 May
     of each year as weather dictates. The black watch cap will only be worn with authorized
     outer garments, physical training uniform or service dress.
12. Wear of the Sage Green Watch Cap
     12.1. Personnel are authorized wear of the sage green watch cap from 1 October through 15
     May of each year as weather dictates. The sage green watch cap will only be worn with
     authorized outer garments or physical training uniform.
13. Wear of Headgear
     13.1. Personnel are authorized to wear plain dark blue or black religious head coverings
     indoors while in uniform. Religious head coverings may also be worn, concealed under the
     uniform/headgear, outdoors while in uniform.
14. Winter Clothing Wear
     14.1. Personnel are authorized the wear of winter clothing items to include but not limited to
     parkas, protective footwear and specialized winter flight clothing from 1 October through 15
     May of each year as weather dictates, and then only in immediate execution of those duties
     requiring this equipment.
15. RAB Motorcycle Mentorship Program
     15.1. The 86 AW motorcycle mentorship program is designed to enhance continuing rider
     education, technical skill development, and rider camaraderie with the goal of reducing
     motorcycle mishaps. European roads pose unique challenges to motorcycle riders
     accustomed to riding in the U.S. The various types of road materials and climate create a
     challenging environment for both inexperienced and even the most experienced riders. Our
     installation has a cadre of cyclists who have acquired improved riding skills through several
     years of experience in Europe. These riders can demonstrate proficiency and help reduce the
     risks of riding in Europe by passing their talents and techniques to our novice cyclist
     community. A unit sponsored mentorship program is the best way to capitalize on this
RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013                                                               7


   experience. The objective of the mentorship program is to foster an environment conducive
   to the transfer of valuable experience, skill, and knowledge in order to produce a safer
   motorcycle rider and eliminate mishaps.
   15.2. Unit commanders will establish a mentorship council and implement a motorcycle
   mentorship program within their organization. The mentorship council should include the
   unit commander, motorcycle safety representatives (MSR), the unit safety representative or
   staff, and a cadre of mentor riders. Commanders can tailor their programs to best fit their
   squadrons as long as the ultimate goal is to facilitate safer riding. At a minimum, the
   program should encompass the following:
   15.3. The mentorship council should select the most experienced riders to be mentors. An
   experienced rider is not based on age, but on total riding experience. A rider gains experience
   by riding in various climates, weather conditions, operating different types of motorcycles
   and miles traveled. If experienced riders are not available, the MSR should contact their
   designated group representatives to seek available mentors from other units.
   15.4. A rider should be considered inexperienced if they are either a first-time rider or new
   to the Ramstein area. The mentorship council may consider any rider as a novice and
   recommend additional training.
   15.5. Units without a large enough contingent of riders may combine with other units within
   their Group. The overall goal is to keep each mentorship program large enough to provide
   worthwhile instruction without becoming too large to prohibit one-on-one interaction
   between riders and mentors.
16. RAB Motorcycle Registration Program
   16.1. An extensive historical review of motorcycle training revealed that 90% of all
   Ramstein-assigned AF motorcycle riders obtained their licenses by completing their
   qualification training on a motorcycle which they did not own. It is important that riders
   train on the motorcycle they intend to ride. All motorcycles are different and we must “train
   like we fight” or in this case, “train like we ride!”
   16.2. Air Force military and civilian personnel and their family members applying for a
   motorcycle license (app I) must complete the licensing and registration requirements IAW
   Army in Europe (AE) Regulation 190-1, Registering and Operating Privately Owned Motor
   Vehicles in Germany and USAFE 31-202, Driver and Vehicle Requirements and The
   Installation Traffic Code for The U.S. Forces in Germany.
   16.3. Additionally, the Ramstein Installation Commander's goal is to have all personnel
   receive required Motorcycle Safety Foundation (MSF) courses on the motorcycle they will
   operate in Germany. Therefore, additional requirements are levied for Air Force military and
   civilian personnel and their family members operating motorcycles on Ramstein AB,
   Vogelweh, Kapuan and Einsiedlerhof:
   16.4. Air Force personnel who have a valid country license or motorcycle endorsement will
   be issued a 3-day temporary motorcycle license/registration to complete the required
   Motorcycle Safety Foundation (MSF) safety course (Basic (novice) or Experienced) on the
   motorcycle they will operate in Germany. Riders who have never been trained or have
 8                                                   RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013


     expired training (greater than three years) must transport, not ride, their motorcycle to and
     from training.
     16.5. Upon completion of required training, members will show proof and the local
     community Defense Transportation System (DTS) will issue AE Form 190-1G (valid for 60
     days) and send the AE Form 190-1T, Application for U.S. Forces Pov Certificate of License
     and Allied Transactions and fee to the USAREUR Registry of Motor Vehicles (RMV) for
     processing.
     16.6. If a member purchases a new motorcycle, he/she must conduct retraining on that
     motorcycle and receive a signed memorandum in order to register.
     16.7. Personnel are exempt from retraining if they can provide proof (e.g. registration
     documents) that they have owned their motorcycle for more than 18 months or if the
     purchase of a new motorcycle is of similar type and capability of a previously registered
     motorcycle.
     16.8. A motorcycle of similar type can be classified as one of the following style of
     motorcycles: touring, cruiser, sportbike, dual purpose, standard and scooter. A rider going
     from a cruiser to a sportbike will be retrained. A rider going from a cruiser to another cruiser
     will be considered for exemption from retraining. A motorcycle with similar capabilities can
     also be classified by the engine size (250cc, 600cc, 750cc, 900cc, 1000cc, etc.). A rider
     going from a 250cc to 600cc or 750cc to 1000cc will be retrained. A rider staying at or near
     the same engine size (within 150 cc) is exempt from retraining.
     16.9. The unit commander, with assistance and recommendations from the unit Motorcycle
     Safety Representative, will interview each rider before providing a signature on the
     registration memorandum to determine if an exemption is warranted.
17. Use of Headphones
     17.1. The use of headphones while running, jogging, walking, bicycling, or skating hinders
     or prevents recognition of emergency signals, alarms, announcements, approach of vehicles,
     human speech, and the ability to determine the direction from which sounds are coming.
     17.2. Headphone use is prohibited on all roadways and sidewalks on Ramstein AB with the
     exception of the following areas: The northwestern portion of the Hercules Trail (once it
     exits sidewalks behind housing), the Rails to Trails track east of Lawn Avenue, and the
     fitness assessment track. See 786 FSS-Approved Jogging/Running Tracks (Attachment 3)
     for a map of trails.
     17.3. Headphone use off-base is prohibited when running, jogging, walking, bicycling, or
     skating on roadways or trails that are subject to any type of vehicle traffic.
18. Wear of Reflective Belts
     18.1. Reflective belts and vests are a proven way to enhance the safety of Air Force
     members. Therefore, when in military uniform, all KMC Air Force personnel are required to
     wear reflective belts or vests when outdoors and exposed to traffic environments during
     hours of darkness (dusk to dawn) or periods of reduced visibility. Additionally, all joggers,
     in or out of uniform, will wear a sufficient amount of reflective type clothing (i.e. AF PT
     uniform) or reflective belts/vests on jogging apparel during hours of darkness or periods of
     reduced visibility.
RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013                                                                  9


   18.2. Definitions
      18.2.1. Darkness: official sunset to sunrise.
      18.2.2. Reduced visibility: anytime inclement weather or restricted visibility requires a
      vehicle operator to use headlights (and/or windshield wipers) to maintain traffic lane
      awareness or alignment.
      18.2.3. Exposure to traffic environments: conducting any type of activity in streets or
      parking lots (i.e. directing traffic or street construction work).
   18.3. Commanders will issue reflective belts or vests to their military members and will
   enforce their wear. Commanders and supervisors will provide on-the-spot correction for
   members failing to wear reflective belts. At the discretion of the 86 SFS/CC and/or 569
   USFPS/CC, Security Forces personnel requiring a tactical advantage may be exempt from
   the wear of reflective belts/vests. We must take every action we can to protect the most
   important resource we have, our people.
19. Commander's Equal Opportunity Guidance
   19.1. Our Airmen are our most important resource. The diversity of our personnel and
   professional talent is what makes our Air Force the most powerful air, space and cyber force
   on the planet. Our standard is to ensure each individual has the opportunity to reach their full
   potential in an environment free from discrimination and sexual harassment. Treating each
   other with respect and human dignity is the right thing to do and is essential to our combat
   readiness. All Airmen are part of our Air Force family. Let's treat each other that way.
   19.2. Air Force policy on discrimination and sexual harassment is very simple and direct.
   Discrimination based on race, color, religion, national origin, sex (and in the case of civilian
   employees age or disability) in any form destroys morale and is incompatible with good
   order and discipline.
   19.3. All commanders, first sergeants and supervisors are expected to set the example and to
   hold their subordinates accountable for violations of discrimination and sexual harassment.
   In addition, it is our responsibility to ensure that personnel who have complaints of
   discrimination are apprised of their right to seek assistance from the 86th Airlift Wing Equal
   Opportunity Office. Everyone should be able to live and work in an environment free from
   discrimination and harassment.
20. Installation Commander's Critical Information Requirements (CCIRs)
   20.1. It is imperative that critical information flows to the appropriate agencies at the earliest
   possible time. The CCIRs listed below are the minimum requirements that must be up-
   channeled through the 86 AW Command Post (CP), who will facilitate the C2 process and
   notify appropriate leadership and lateral support agencies.
   20.2. The following CCIRs require immediate notification to the 86 AW/CP.
   20.3. All OPREP-3/CCIR reports that apply to 86 AW units and installations.
   20.4. Death or Serious Injury/Illness of any active duty, civilian, or dependent personnel
   assigned to Ramstein AB (permanently or temporarily).
 10                                                RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013


   20.5. Any aircraft incident/accident at Ramstein AB and/or involving 86 AW personnel or
   equipment.
   20.6. Any suicide, attempted suicide, or suicidal ideation by an 86 AW member or their
   dependent at home station or deployed/TDY location.
   20.7. Negligent discharge of a firearm.
   20.8. Alcohol Related Incident (ARI) of any member of the 86 AW or any ARI that may
   cause host nation media attention.
   20.9. Any event(s) that may cause international/local media attention.
   20.10. Any off-base fire or other incident affecting housing of an 86 AW assigned person.
   20.11. Any unusual occurrence or significant event/incident involving installation resources
   that does not meet any reporting criteria but in the judgment of the commander merits 86 AW
   attention.
   20.12. 86 AW Point of Contact (POC) for CCIRs is 86 AW/CP Chief, 480-2121 or
   86aw.cp@ramstein.af.mil for questions.
21. Base Appearance Program
   21.1. Maintaining USAFE’s premier installation is a cooperative effort among all assigned
   organizations. The Base Appearance Program consists of two key elements: The Base Pride
   Program and the Facilities Excellence Team (FET).
   21.2. The Base Pride Program provides a systematic, organized approach to maintaining our
   base appearance at a high-level every day. The Base Pride Program does not release facility
   managers from their current responsibilities to clean within 100 feet of their facility; instead,
   it supplements the facility manager program by assigning ownership to all other areas beyond
   the immediate vicinity of a facility (see Base Pride ownership map at Attachment 5 and Base
   Pride checklist at Attachment 6). The intent of this program is to encourage all community
   members to take pride in the appearance of their base and provide commanders with an
   organized and effective means to initiate such efforts. Base pride days are scheduled
   whenever deemed necessary by the 86th AW leadership, at a minimum twice a year in
   conjunction with Fall and Spring Cleanup days.
   21.3. The FET is an installation-wide detail responsible to police areas and pick-up trash,
   cigarette butts, debris, empty common area trashcans, etc.           During high-visibility
   visits/events, the FET team aggressively works specific routes, which include areas on
   Ramstein, Vogelweh and Kapaun.
22. Safety Guidelines
   22.1. Ramstein hosts the most unique mission in Europe. We have the ability to respond to
   every crisis in theater. Although our daily operations are very diverse, our primary duty is to
   assure continual readiness and excel when we are called to the fight. Our objective is to
   ensure all of our team members are safe both on and off duty. Commanders and supervisors
   at all levels are responsible to protect personnel and equipment under their authority.
RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013                                                           11


  22.2. While commanders are committed to providing the safest working environment
  possible, we all have a personal responsibility to ensure our own safety and the safety of
  those around us. Know your limitations and, as good wingmen, watch out for one another.
  22.3. The challenges we face require our constant attention. Everyone must assess risk at all
  levels and implement mitigating actions. ORM is the cornerstone of mishap prevention for
  commanders, supervisors and individuals to make consistent decisions that ensure mission
  success.
  22.4. Correct hazardous situations on the spot; call “knock-it-off” if necessary and use your
  chain of command to correct the situation. If someone is hurt or something is damaged,
  report the event as soon as possible.
  22.5. The bottom line is clear; we must accomplish our combat mission while protecting our
  people and resources. This begins with a proactive, daily application of risk management
  principles in everything we do. Mishap prevention or mishap reporting inquiries can be
  directed to the 86 AW Safety Office at DSN 480-1840.




                                          CHARLES K. HYDE, Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Commander
 12                                              RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, 29 October 2009
Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 33-363_USAFESUP, Management of Records, 25 November 2008
AFI 44-121, Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (Adapt) Program, 11 April
2011
AE Regulation 190-1, Registering and Operating Privately Owned Motor Vehicles in Germany,
4 December 2006
USAFE 31-202, Driver and Vehicle Requirements and The Installation Traffic Code for The U.S.
Forces in Germany, 4 December 2008
Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated
Occupational Safety, 7 July 2004
Air Force Instruction 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 27 October 2011
86th Airlift Wing Instruction 31-201, Installation Traffic Code, Date TBD
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AE Form 190-1T, Application for U.S. Forces Pov Certificate of License and Allied
Transactions, December 2008
AF Form 4392, Predeparture Safety Briefing, 5 August 2011
Prescribed Forms
No Prescribed Forms

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AE—Army in Europe
AB—Air Base
ADAPT—Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH STD—Air Force Office of Safety and Health
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Management System
AMS—Air Mobility Squadron
RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013                             13


AMXS—Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
ARI—Alcohol Related Incident
AS—Air Station
AW—Airlift Wing
CC—Commander
CCIR—Commander's Critical Information Requirements
CP—Command Post
DoD—Department of Defense
DUI—Driving Under the Influence
DWI—Driving While Intoxicated
FET—Facilities Excellence Team
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
FSS—Force Support Squadron
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IAW—In Accordance With
KMC—Kaiserslautern Military Community
LOX—Liquid Oxygen LRS - Logistics Readiness Squadron
MSF—Motorcycle Safety Foundation
MSR—Motorcycle Safety Officer
MUNS—Munitions Squadron
MXS—Maintenance Squadron
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USFPS—United States Forces Police Squadron
VPN—Virtual Private Network VRS -Vehicle Readiness Squadron
14                      RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013


                 Attachment 2
     KMC CHILD SUPERVISION POLICY MATRIX
RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013                      15


                             Attachment 3
             786 FSS-APPROVED JOGGING/RUNNING TRACKS

Figure A3.1. IMAGE A2 JOGGING/RUNNING TRACK
 16                                                 RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013


                                           Attachment 4
              86 AW MOTORCYCLE REGISTRATION LETTER (SAMPLE)

MEMORANDUM FOR 569 USFPS/S5V
FROM: Unit Commander
SUBJECT: Motorcycle Registration

1. This is to certify that (grade, last name, first name)____________________________from
________________________(organization) has completed an appropriate Motorcycle Safety
Foundation (MSF) rider course on the vehicle to be registered or provided the necessary
competency documentation validating the 18 month requirement on (dd-mmm-yyyy)
__________________. Member is authorized to register the following vehicle and must present
this document along with all other required materials to the 569 USFPS vehicle registration
office. This letter is valid only for 30 days from date of issuance.


Year :______________
Make :________________
Model: __________________
Cubic centimeters/cc: __________




Unit Commander (print and sign name)                            Date
RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013               17


                             Attachment 5
                     BASE PRIDE OWNERSHIP MAP
18                                                   RAMSTEINABI36-2901 13 AUGUST 2013


                                          Attachment 6
                                 BASE PRIDE CHECKLIST

Base Pride Checklist
NO.                         ACTION                                                                   NO YES
      Purpose: To encourage all personnel to take pride in the appearance of RAB, identify
      specific areas of responsibilities/requirements, and facilitate a fair- shared team
      approach to base cleanliness
                        Within Designated AOR
      Clear trash & debris from sidewalks/parking lots/curbs/street gutters/smoking areas (pick
      up cigarette butts)/common areas/wooded areas throughout the AOR (pay specific
 1    attention to the corners of parking lots were street sweepers cannot access)
 2    Pick up trash and debris adjacent to or along roadway within AOR
      Clean area around dumpsters and recycling containers/ensure lids are closed and the
 3
      dumpsters are not filled above normal capacity
      Remove fallen tree limbs and pull weeds from sidewalks/curbs/puzzle pads/planters
      boxes & flower beds (place branches/bagged leaves & weeds at the nearest MAIN
      roadway for pickup by CE--separate tree branches and shrubs into two piles at curbside--
 4    one for small wood stems up to 4 inches in diameter, and another for larger material --
      Contact CE customer service if items place on main roadways are not picked up Comm.
      0631-536-6623/7703/7107, DSN 489-6623/7703/7107)
      Empty all exterior trash and cigarette butt cans (Cigarette waste should be emptied in a
 5    plastic bag with water covering the contents and placed beside the butt can or trash
      container until the next duty day)
      Facility Manager's Responsibilities (within 100 ft of facility)
 1    Accomplish all of the above within 100 feet of the facility
 2    Rake leaves and pick up litter and debris
 3    Clean glass on all windows/doors inside & out
 4    Clean shared parking lots beyond 100 ft in the vicinity of facility
 5    Trim bushes/shrubs/hedges ensure a healthy and neat appearance around facility
      Visually inspect entire exterior of facility for maintenance needs such as painting/pressure
 6    washing/repairs…etc (Contact CE customer service or submit a work request)
                             *Notes*
      Contact the Self Help Store to pick up bio-degradable bags/borrow rakes/shovels/leaf
      blowers…etc: Ramstein AFB building 510 M-Th 0700 -1130
      & 1215 - 1600 F 0700 -1130 & 1215 - 1445 Phone # 480-5034/5035
      Weed burners can be borrowed from the Self Help store after the user attends a short
      training class (contact the Self Help to schedule training)
      Authorized users of the self help store include the following: Sq CC/First
      Sgt/Airmen Dorm Leader/Facility Managers/Alternate Facility Managers
      Leaves and weeds need to be placed in bio-degradable bags (available at Self Help)
