BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             RANDOLPH AFB INSTRUCTION 44-108
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                                                   1 MARCH 2006
                                                                     Certified Current 20 May 2008

                                                                                            Medical

                                BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN

           COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY:  Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:           There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 12 MDG/SGGM (Maj Kemp)                  Certified by: 12 MDG/CC (Col Gavron)
Supersedes RANDOLPHAFBI44-108, 13 March 2002                           Pages: 14

This instruction applies to 12 FTW personnel who are at risk for exposure to blood and body
fluids as part of their duties as delineated in paragraphs 2.1. and 2.2. It also applies to associate
units assigned to Randolph AFB. This plan is a prevention activity that is focused equally on the
safety of the healthcare worker (HCW), the patient, and the communities we serve. This
publication references and attempts to comply with all tenets of 29 Code of Federal Regulations
(CFR) 1910.1030, 6 Dec 1991, and AFI 44-108, Infection Control Program. This document
includes the updated requirements to 29 CFR 1910.1030 set forth in the 18 Apr 01, Needlestick
Safety and Prevention Act. The OSHA Standards and Compliance documents specify elements
of this exposure control plan. The Infection Control Program incorporates guidance within U.S.
Public Health Service Guidelines for the Management of Occupational Exposures to HBV, HCV,
and HIV and Recommendation for Post-exposure (i.e., blood and body fluid) Prophylaxis 29
Jun 2001. Contract employees and partnership personnel, as well as students from local colleges
who may train at the 12 MDG, must be included in their employer's/college's exposure control plan
as outlined in 29 CFR 1910.1030. If clearly specified in these contracts or Memoranda of
Understanding, the 12 MDG can administer required immunizations and provide follow up for
exposure incidents, but all record keeping requirements and other provisions of 29 CFR 1910.1030
are the responsibility of the employer/college/contractor. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFM 37-123,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (AF RDS) located at: https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

Changes to this publication include: rephrased wording (paragraphs 1.2., 1.4., and 2.3.); addition
of definitions for high risk (paragraph 1.4.); exposure prone personnel (paragraph 1.5.); the
designation of exposure prone personnel (paragraph 2.1.); the addition of Security Forces
Investigations and Search and Recovery Team to the list of job classifications where some
employees have potential exposure to bloodborne pathogens (paragraph 2.2.); adds the
2                                                   RANDOLPHAFBI44-108             1 MARCH 2006

authorization of approved use of waterless hand cleansers in with the clinic (paragraph 4.2.); and
adds requirement for hepatitis C antibody testing (paragraphs 10.3.1.1., 10.3.1.2., and 10.4.1.).

1. Guidelines and Definitions.

    1.1. Blood: human blood, human blood components, and products from human blood.

    1.2. Contaminated: Means the presence, or the reasonably anticipated presence, of blood or
    other potentially infectious materials on an item or surface. At Randolph, the term
    "Contaminated Waste" is equated with OSHA regulated waste. Contaminated waste includes
    needles, scalpel blades, catheters and other sharps, and other disposable items contaminated
    with blood or any other possible infectious item. 12 MDG policy is that needle sharps are
    not recapped, bent or purposely separated by hand, except where specifically identified in
    paragraph 5.3. Sharps containers are located as close to the point of use as possible for the
    safe disposal of contaminated sharps waste.

    1.3. Standard Precautions: Refers to an infectious disease control system intended to
    prevent healthcare workers from parenteral, mucous membrane, and non-intact skin
    exposures to bloodborne pathogens. The 12 MDG applies standard precautions during all
    medical procedures. All blood and body fluids are treated as if potentially infectious. This is
    IAW Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and Healthcare Infection Control Practices
    Advisory Committee (HICPAC).

    1.4. High Risk Personnel: Personnel working in, or under jurisdiction of, Air Force Medical
    Treatment Facilities (MTF) and Guard and Reserve medical units, who have direct contact
    with patients or blood/body fluids, and have ongoing risk for injuries with contaminated
    sharp instruments and needles.

    1.5. Exposure Prone Personnel: Medical and dental providers, nurses, and technicians who
    perform invasive procedures, defined by the Centers of Disease Control as “surgical entry
    into tissues, cavities, or organs or repair of major traumatic injuries associated with operating
    or delivery room, emergency department, or outpatient setting (dental and physician), cardiac
    catheterization and angiographic procedures; vaginal/cesarean delivery or other invasive
    obstetric procedure where bleeding occurs; or manipulation, cutting, or removal of any oral
    or perioral tissues, including tooth structure, during which bleeding occurs or potential for
    bleeding exists.” NOTE: All exposure prone personnel are also high risk.

2. Exposure Determination.

    2.1. List of job classifications where all employees have potential exposure to bloodborne
    pathogens:

         JOB TITLES
         Aerospace Physiology Officers
         Aerospace Physiology Technicians
RANDOLPHAFBI44-108          1 MARCH 2006                                                      3

       Biomedical Equipment Technicians
       Clinical Social Workers
       Clinical Psychologists
       Dental Laboratory Technicians – Exposure prone
       Dental Technicians - Exposure prone
       Dentists (all specialties) - Exposure prone
       Immunization Technicians
       Laboratory Officers
       Laboratory Technicians
       Medical Service Technicians
       Nurse Practitioners
       Nurses (all specialties)
       Nursing Assistants
       Physician Assistants
       Physicians (all specialties)
       Radiology Technicians
       Optometrists
       Optometry Technicians
       Physical Therapists
       Physical Therapy Technicians

  2.2. List of job classifications where some employees have potential exposure to bloodborne
  pathogens:

       JOB TITLE and TASKS
       Security Forces - emergency rescue procedures, rendering first aid.
       Housekeeper - sorting laundry, handling trash.
       Firefighter - emergency rescue procedures, rendering first aid.
       Security Forces Investigations/OSI - field investigation, securing crime scene,
       collecting contaminated evidence, transporting suspects, personnel.
       Life Guard - all trained staff (whether volunteer or employed) that render first aid,
       rescue, and lifesaving procedures.
       Life Support Technician - servicing of aircrew equipment, cleaning flight crew masks,
       hoses, helmets.
       Search and Recovery Team – recovering remains.

  2.3. Job listings of employees required to be trained in and provide first aid as a collateral
  duty. These individuals will receive bloodborne pathogen training and follow the
  requirements in this supplement (Note: employees in the sections listed below are not
  required to complete pre-exposure Hepatitis B virus (HBV) vaccination, but will be offered
  the HBV vaccine as part of routine post-exposure evaluation and follow up following any
  mucous membrane exposure incident occurring from their occupation.):

       JOB LISTINGS
       Child Development Center Staff
4                                                  RANDOLPHAFBI44-108             1 MARCH 2006

         Home Day Care Providers
         Youth Center Staff /Youth Services Swim Program Staff
         Exterior/Interior Electric
         Liquid Fuels Maintenance
         Cable Maintenance
         Refueling Maintenance
         Fuel Systems Repair

3. Schedule and Implementation of OSHA Standard 29 CFR 1910.1030.

    3.1. The mandatory use of standard precautions (formerly universal precautions) for all
    patient contact was placed into effect 6 March 1992 IAW federal guidance. It mandates that
    all human blood and body fluids be treated as if known to be infected with HBV, Human
    Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) or other bloodborne pathogens. Appropriate control
    measures must be in place to protect the healthcare worker or other employee against
    bloodborne pathogens encountered in the workplace. Under circumstances in which
    differentiation between body fluid types is difficult or impossible, all body fluids shall be
    considered potentially infectious.

    3.2. Standard precautions in conjunction with effective work practice controls will be used
    to minimize or eliminate potential exposure risk to bloodborne pathogens. Each work center
    (see para 2.2. and 2.3.) will incorporate engineering and workplace controls that are unique to
    their area. This information will be included in the training plan for their section’s work
    center.

4. Guidelines for the Prevention and Control of Infection in Patients.

    4.1. Randolph Clinic will comply with HICPAC current literature including: Guideline for
    Infection Control in Health Care Personnel, Guideline for Isolation Precautions in
    Hospitals, Guidelines for Hand Washing and Hand Antisepsis in Health Care Settings,
    Guideline for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia, Guideline for Prevention of
    Intravascular Device-Related Infection, Guideline for Preventing of Surgical Site Infection.
    The Clinic also follows CDC: Guidelines for Handwashing and Environmental Control, and
    Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of Mycobacterium Tuberculosis in Health Care
    Facilities.

    4.2. Hand washing is the responsibility of each employee. The employee's supervisor or
    section chief will ensure the hand washing responsibility is enforced. Clinic Infection
    Control Self-Inspection Checklists should include washing hands at least 15 seconds with
    approved liquid soap or the approved waterless hand cleanser between all patients. Hand
    washing facilities and waterless hand cleanser dispensers are located throughout Randolph
    Clinic in examination rooms, restrooms, treatment areas, and specimen collection areas.

    4.3. Hand washing facilities are also available in the Fire Department. In areas where hand
    washing facilities are not immediately available (i.e., on-scene rescue), antiseptic hand
RANDOLPHAFBI44-108           1 MARCH 2006                                                      5

   cleaners will be provided and used as an interim measure; hands will be rewashed with soap
   and running water as soon as it is feasible. Location of hand washing facilities will be
   briefed to all personnel as part of their training.

   4.4. Hands will be washed:

        4.4.1. Immediately or soon after removal of gloves or personal protective equipment.

        4.4.2. Immediately or soon after coming in contact with blood or other potentially
        infectious material.

        4.4.3. After arrival in the work place (prior to beginning duties).

        4.4.4. Before and after performing any personal bodily function, such as eating,
        sneezing, and using the restroom.

        4.4.5. Before performing invasive procedures.

        4.4.6. Before and after touching wounds, whether surgical, traumatic, or associated
        with an invasive device.

        4.4.7. Before and after each patient contact.

        4.4.8. After touching inanimate sources that have probable bloodborne pathogens
        contamination.

        4.4.9. Before and after entering and working in a highly contaminated area, such as a
        containment room or dirty utility room.

        4.4.10. After any situation which microbial contamination of hands may occur, such as
        smoking.

        4.4.11. Before departure for home.

        4.4.12. When employee is in doubt about the necessity for washing their hands.

5. Needle and Sharps Management.

   5.1. Medical Service programs will stress proper management of needles and sharps.
   Health care providers (HCPs) will be aware of the occupational health hazards concerning
   their use. Common sense, safety, and environmental concerns should be paramount
   regarding the health care provider's use and disposal of needles and sharps. Emphasis should
   be placed on the minimal handling of these items. Hospital Aseptic Management System
   (HAMS)/Clinic Housekeeping and Maintenance Services personnel are educated at initial job
   HAZCOM Training regarding infectious waste, needle sticks, or other mucous membrane
6                                                  RANDOLPHAFBI44-108             1 MARCH 2006

    bloodborne pathogen (BBP) exposure, with a copy of BBP training outline for medical
    employees which will be maintained and approved on an annual basis by the Infection
    Control Officer (ICO).

    5.2. Contaminated needles and sharps will be placed in disposable containers and will not
    be recapped, bent, or broken (except for the Dental Clinic when using local anesthetic as
    stated in para 1.5.3).

    5.3. Dental Clinic will follow the existing guidelines outlined in the most current USAF
    Guidelines for Infection Control in Dentistry. Only in the Dental Clinic will recapping and
    reusing of needles be allowed. Such recapping or needle removal must be accomplished
    through the use of a mechanical device or a one-handed technique. Immediately or soon
    after, contaminated reusable needles will be placed in a puncture resistant, leak-proof,
    appropriately labeled container until properly processed. Reusable sharps that are
    contaminated with blood or other potentially infectious material (OPIM) will not be stored or
    processed in a manner that requires employees to reach by hand into the container where
    these needles have been placed. All efforts will be made to minimize risk of percutaneous
    injury when processing sharp instruments.

    5.4. Extreme caution must be exercised when disposing of needles and sharps. They must
    be disposed of in puncture resistant, leak-proof sharps containers specifically designated for
    needles and sharps disposal. Sharps containers are located in all patient care areas and must
    be changed when three fourths full.

    5.5. Non-medical personnel with a medical reason to possess contaminated sharps (e.g.,
    diabetic patients on insulin) will dispose of sharps in a rigid container (e.g., plain, covered
    coffee can) by regular trash collection methods as allowed by federal and state law.

    5.6. The Infection Control Function (ICF) will review on an annual basis medical devices
    that are appropriate, commercially available, and effective.

         5.6.1. This includes sharps with engineered sharps incident protection (SESIP).

    5.7. The ICO will notify the entire clinic staff soliciting input from clinic employees
    regarding SESIPs and needleless systems. The ICO will also base the need to implement
    additional SESIPs for individual clinic sections upon annual review of needlestick
    incidents/causes.

    5.8. This notification and review will be documented annually as an attachment to this ECP.

6. Environment of Care and Regulated Medical Waste.

    6.1. An ICF-approved list of antiseptics and disinfectants is posted in the MTF Instruction
    for Infection Control (12 MDG 44-1, Mar 05). This includes anti-microbial hand washing
    agents used by healthcare workers and antiseptics for patient use.
RANDOLPHAFBI44-108          1 MARCH 2006                                                       7


  6.2. Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics or lip balm, and handling contact lenses
  are prohibited in work areas where there is reasonably anticipated occupational exposure to
  bloodborne pathogens.

  6.3. Storage of food and drink in refrigerators, freezers, or on countertops where potentially
  infectious materials are stored or the potential for exposure to infectious material exists, is
  prohibited.

  6.4. Mouth pipetting of blood or other infectious materials is prohibited.

  6.5. Specimens of blood or other potentially infectious material will be placed in a container
  to prevent leakage during collection, handling, processing, storage, transporting, or shipping
  to final destinations.

  6.6. Red plastic biohazard bags are the primary containers used for disposal of regulated
  waste. These bags are stored in sturdy cardboard boxes marked "Biohazard".

       6.6.1. If specimen leakage is anticipated, double or triple-bagged primary containers
       are permitted.

       6.6.2. If a specimen could puncture the primary container, the primary container will
       be placed in a puncture resistant secondary container.

  6.7. Medical equipment that becomes contaminated with blood or other infectious material
  will be decontaminated as necessary prior to servicing or shipping. Trained personnel will
  decontaminate potentially contaminated items, such as rescue equipment. Bleach diluted to
  100 parts per million chlorine residual can be used for many non-sensitive, contaminated
  objects to adequately decontaminate them.

  6.8. A readily observable biohazard label will be attached to the portion of the equipment
  which remains contaminated prior to processing.

  6.9. All employees will use appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) to minimize
  exposure risks. Equipment will be considered appropriate only if it does not permit blood or
  other potentially infectious materials to pass through or to reach the employee's work clothes,
  street clothes, undergarments, skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucous membranes under normal
  condition and duration of use.

       6.9.1. Medical Logistics will provide PPE for all medical employees at risk. Non-
       medical units should establish an account with Medical Logistics to obtain PPE. PPE
       will include, but not be limited to; gloves, gowns, laboratory coats, masks, eye
       protection, mouthpieces, resuscitation bags, or other ventilation devices.

       6.9.2. The supervisor or section head will enforce the use of PPE for all employees.
8                                             RANDOLPHAFBI44-108             1 MARCH 2006

    Declination of use will only be allowed under rare and extraordinary circumstances
    where specific use of personal protective equipment will prevent delivery of health care
    or pose as a safety hazard to the employee or co-workers. Determinations will be made
    and documented whether changes to PPE use procedures need to be instituted to
    prevent further occurrences.

    6.9.3. The supervisor or section chief will ensure availability of PPE in the work area.
    Hypoallergenic gloves, powderless gloves, or other similar alternatives will be
    available for those employees with a demonstrated dermatitis or allergy to latex gloves.

    6.9.4. Medical Logistics personnel will provide for cleaning, laundering, disposing,
    repairing, and replacing of medical PPE utilized for protection against biohazards.
    Other organizations covered by this exposure control plan are responsible for cleaning,
    laundering, disposing, repairing, and replacing of personal protective equipment.

    6.9.5. All PPE worn will be removed prior to the member leaving the work area.

    6.9.6. If blood or OPIM penetrates a garment, the garment will be carefully removed to
    avoid contact with unprotected skin and appropriately bagged as contaminated waste as
    soon as possible after the incident.

    6.9.7. All contaminated PPE will be placed in an appropriately designated area or
    container for storage prior to decontamination or disposal.

    6.9.8. Disposable gloves will be worn when it is reasonably anticipated that the
    employee will have direct contact with blood or OPIM, mucous membrane, or non-
    intact skin; when performing vascular access procedures; and when handling or
    touching contaminated items or surfaces. Gloves will be replaced as soon as practical
    when contaminated, torn, punctured, or when their ability to function as a barrier is
    compromised.

    6.9.9. Masks, eye protection, and face shields, will be worn whenever splashes, spray,
    spatter, or droplets of blood or OPIM may be generated and contamination of the eyes,
    nose, or mouth is a possibility. Protective eyewear will be worn for any invasive
    procedure or activity that produces aerosolization of blood or body fluids, in which
    exposure to the eyes can be anticipated, such as suctioning patients, dental treatment
    with any rotary or ultrasonic instruments, or instrument processing. Protective eyewear
    must provide peripheral as well as direct protection from exposure. Employees will use
    either personally issued goggles, glasses with side shields or complete face shields
    which extend to the chin. If goggles are shared within a work center, they will be
    disinfected between users.

    6.9.10. Outer protective clothing such as gowns, aprons, lab coats, or clinic jackets will
    be worn in occupational exposure situations. The type and characteristics will depend
    on the task and degree of exposure anticipated.
RANDOLPHAFBI44-108          1 MARCH 2006                                                         9


       6.9.11. Heavy duty, industrial grade utility gloves will be worn when any activity, such
       as handling trash, decontamination of instruments, or environmental cleaning, is
       performed. Utility gloves will be washed when minimal soiling occurs. Utility gloves
       will be changed when heavily soiled or when the integrity of the barrier has been
       compromised. After removing gloves, employees will wash their hands with an anti-
       microbial soap as soon as possible.

  6.10. Supervisors or section chiefs are responsible for ensuring work areas are maintained in
  a clean and sanitary condition.

       6.10.1. Operating instructions will be established for each appropriate clinic area
       indicating the schedule for cleaning and methods of decontamination based upon work
       area and procedures performed in the area. Each individual will monitor contracted
       housekeeping activities and any discrepancies in violation of contract requirements will
       be reported to the facility manager.

       6.10.2. All equipment and work surfaces will be barrier protected to prevent
       contamination from blood or OPIM. Surfaces that cannot be barrier protected will be
       decontaminated as soon as possible after procedures involving blood or other
       potentially infectious materials.

               6.10.2.1. Protective coverings such as plastic wrap, aluminum foil, or
               imperviously-backed absorbent paper used to cover equipment and work
               surfaces will be immediately replaced when they become overly contaminated,
               or at the end of the work shift if contamination occurs.

               6.10.2.2. Contaminated work surfaces will be decontaminated with a
               disinfectant approved by the ICF after completion of procedures, immediately
               after any blood spill or other potentially infectious material is introduced, and at
               the end of each work shift. A practical and effective decontamination solution
               will consist of one ounce of household bleach (5% sodium hypochlorate) with
               one gallon of water or other recognized equivalent.

               6.10.2.3. All bins, pails, cans, and similar receptacles intended for reuse will
               be decontaminated on a regularly scheduled basis or as soon as possible when
               visibly contaminated.

               6.10.2.4. Broken glassware, which may be contaminated, will not be picked up
               by hand. It will be cleaned using mechanical means, such as a brush and
               dustpan, tongs, or forceps and placed in a sharps container.

       6.10.3. Proper disposal of medical waste is essential to minimize or eliminate the
       exposure risk to Clinic patients and personnel. Disposal will be accomplished in
       accordance with applicable federal, state, and local regulations.
10                                                 RANDOLPHAFBI44-108            1 MARCH 2006


     6.11. Contaminated laundry will be handled as little as possible with a minimum of agitation
     to prevent gross microbial contamination of the air and of persons handling the laundry.

          6.11.1. All contaminated laundry will be bagged or put into carts at the location it was
          used and it will not be presorted or rinsed in the location of use. It will be clearly
          labeled as contaminated or placed in a red bag. Contaminated laundry will be placed
          and transported in bags or containers labeled or color-coded as biohazard.

          6.11.2. Wet contaminated laundry will be placed in bags or containers in such a
          manner as to prevent soak-through and leakage. Employees handling contaminated
          laundry will wear protective gloves and other appropriate personal protective
          equipment.

7. HBV Immunizations.

     7.1. All personnel who have potential exposure to blood and OPIM in their workplace will
     be offered HBV immunizations. Individuals in training programs from other institutions will
     provide proof of prior HBV immunizations before performing training at the 12 MDG.
     Individuals will in-process through Public Health (PH) within 5 working days of assignment
     to the MDG. Public Health will screen records and process the individual(s) IAW Clinic
     Employee Health Program Guidelines. If the individual will have potential exposure to
     blood or OPIM as indicated by their job series or place of work and they have not been
     previously immunized against HBV, they will be offered HBV immunization. HBV vaccine
     will also be offered to personnel in the job classifications listed in paragraph 2.2.

     7.2. Individuals with potential exposure to blood or OPIM will receive their initial HBV
     immunizations within 10 working days of initial assignment to workplace duties involving
     potential occupational exposure to blood or body fluids. They will continue the vaccination
     series as recommended by the vaccine manufacturer, the CDC, and the USAF Surgeon
     General.

     7.3. All active duty military members assigned to the 12 MDG will receive the HBV
     vaccination series IAW current AF/SG policy. Within the MDG, only civil service
     employees not performing direct medical duties may decline HBV immunizations. Unless
     medically contraindicated, all direct hire civilian medical personnel whose duties may
     involve reasonably anticipated exposure to blood or body fluids will be immunized against
     HBV as a condition of employment. While we will not compel volunteers to be immunized
     against HBV, they will not be allowed to perform duties involving potential exposure to
     blood or body fluids unless they have been immunized against or provide proof of prior
     immunity to HBV. Civil service employees who do not wish to be immunized against HBV
     will sign a declination statement. This option to refuse HBV immunization is by law. An
     employee who initially declined HBV vaccination may reconsider their decision at any time
     and receive the immunization. Contract personnel will receive HBV vaccinations from their
     contractor hiring authority as per the health provisions included in their contract.
RANDOLPHAFBI44-108           1 MARCH 2006                                                      11

8. Communication of Hazards to Employees.

   8.1. The use of biohazard labels on all potentially infectious waste disposal containers,
   colored containers for disposal of sharps, and colored bags for liners of disposal buckets is
   mandatory.

   8.2. All employees with occupational exposure to BBPs must receive initial and annual
   training on the hazards associated with blood & OPIM and the protective measures to be
   taken to minimize the risk of occupational exposure. Initial training must be accomplished at
   the time of initial assignment to tasks where occupational exposure may take place. Annual
   training will be accomplished within 12 months of any previous training. The 12 MDG
   Education and Training Office maintains a standardized BBP training module available on
   the MDG Intranet. This module will be used to train 12 MDG employees. Other base
   workplaces identified at potential risk for BBP exposure will complete initial and annual
   BBP training by viewing the BBP training videotape, Bloodborne Pathogens (Industry
   Version) kept at the PH office. A knowledgeable trainer will conduct this training. The
   contract hiring authority is responsible for providing HBV vaccinations, initial & annual
   training, and keeping appropriate documentation on all contract employees.

   8.3. Supervisors will ensure all current employees, including volunteers with potential
   exposure to blood or OPIM, complete initial workplace specific training.

   8.4. Training may be done by the supervisor or by another trainer approved by the
   Commander, Medical Operations Squadron; Commander, Medical Support Squadron; or
   Commander, Aeromedical-Dental Squadron.

   8.5. Supervisors will document training on AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health
   Record, for each employee. Within the 12 MDG, the clinic section supervisor will record
   initial and annual workplace-specific BBP training. The MDG Education and Training
   Office will record and monitor annual clinic BBP training via each member’s completion of
   the BBP training module located on the MDG intranet. This documentation will include:
   date of training, training plan title, summary of content of training, names and duty titles of
   trainees, and whether initial or annual training. PH will review the content of initial/annual
   BBP training provided to applicable base industrial shops to ensure proper scope and content.
   PH will review this training on an annual basis during Occupational Health Program reviews
   and provide supervisors with updated training materials as needed. PH will discuss any
   changes to federal directives/requirements (i.e., 29 CFR 1910.1030) at this time to ensure
   program compliance.

9. Record Keeping for 29 CFR 1910.1030.

   9.1. Medical Records: SF 600, Chronological Record of Medical Care, overprint will be
   used to document in-processing and employee health requirements for clinic employees. A
   SF 513, Consultation Sheet, SF 600, and one incident statement (clinic employees only) will
   be used to document and follow potential exposure incidents. The SF 513 will be used to
12                                                   RANDOLPHAFBI44-108           1 MARCH 2006

     provide notification to the patient of a contaminated exposure incident. Contaminated
     exposure incident information will be kept for the duration of employment plus 30 years.
     Within 15 days of completion of the initial evaluation, the HCP will notify the exposed
     member of the source test results and recommendation for the member to receive HBV
     vaccination & required follow-up testing.

     9.2. Infection Control Officer (12 MDOS/SGOBP) will monitor training documentation
     from all MDG employees IAW AFI 44-108. PH will assist work centers with available
     training materials. All work centers covered by this plan are to retain training plans for a
     period of 3 years and forward records of annual training to the PH Flight, 12 ADS/SGGM.

10. Procedure for Evaluation of Circumstances Surrounding Exposure.

     10.1. Each employee will notify their supervisor when they believe they have been
     potentially exposed to a bloodborne pathogen by splash, puncture wound, or other event.
     Supervisors will refer the employee to the bloodborne pathogens physician. If the incident
     occurs while the Clinic is closed, the individual will report to the Emergency Room at
     Brooke Army Medical Center (BAMC) or Wilford Hall Medical Center (WHMC). When
     individuals are seen at BAMC or WHMC, the individual will notify their supervisor at the
     earliest possible time.

     10.2. Location of Job Descriptions and 29 CFR 1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens:

          10.2.1. Supervisors maintain individual job descriptions. The ICF has determined
          which duty sections and jobs have potential exposure to BBP. Those locations are in
          paragraph 1.2. of this publication.

          10.2.2. A copy of 29 CFR 1910.1030 is located in PH and Bioenvironmental
          Engineering. A copy of the 29 CFR 1910.1030 and RANDOLPHAFBI44-108 will be
          kept in each workplace identified as a potential or collateral risk for BBP exposure.
          The location of these plans within the workplace (i.e., employee access) will be
          addressed during initial training.

     10.3. Testing following a potential exposure:

          10.3.1.    Source patient:

                     10.3.1.1. Occupational exposures should be considered urgent medical
                     concerns to ensure timely post-exposure management. IAW Updated
                     MMWR June 29, 2001, Recommendations and Reports 50 (RR11); 1-42
                     military personnel will have a blood sample drawn as soon as possible after
                     the exposure. It will be tested IAW CDC Guidelines for HBV surface
                     antigen, hepatitis C (HCV) antibody and antibody to the HIV.

                     10.3.1.2. Retired military, dependents, volunteers, or civilian employees will
RANDOLPHAFBI44-108          1 MARCH 2006                                                        13

                  be asked if they will provide blood for an HIV antibody test, HBV surface
                  antigen and HCV antibody. They may decline to have any or all of the
                  testing done. Prior to testing they will receive an explanation of why the
                  testing is being done, how the results will be used, where they will be
                  recorded, and the confidentiality of the results. Personnel agreeing to testing
                  must sign a permission for HIV Antibody Testing Consent Form.

       10.3.2.    Exposed patient. The individual with potential exposure to blood and
       OPIM will have the testing accomplished IAW the most current CDC guidance.
       Exposed military personnel will have this testing done without exception. Civilians and
       volunteers will be given the option of having the testing accomplished. The standard of
       follow-up testing and medical care is addressed within U.S. Public Health Service
       Guidelines for the Management of Occupational Exposures to HBV, HCV, and HIV and
       Recommendation for Post-exposure Prophylaxis 29 Jun 2001.

  10.4. Evaluation and Treatment. The exposed patient will be evaluated and counseled on
  the potential for exposure to bloodborne pathogens by a HCP. The HCP will review the
  medical record for documentation of prior immunization against HBV (nonimmunized
  personnel will be offered the vaccine), HBV titer (protection level), and HIV testing.

       10.4.1.     If possible, the HCP will also review the chart of the source patient for
       potential exposure for HBV, HCV and HIV testing and will interview the source for
       risk factors associated with these diseases (sexual history, drug use, history of hepatitis,
       HIV, etc). These facts and the circumstances will be recorded on the SF 600.

       10.4.2.     12 MDG Form 05-03, Event Report Form, will be completed for each
       potential exposure incident. The HCP will make a determination of the necessity to
       administer prophylaxis for HBV and HIV. PH will assist with most current guidance
       for assessing needlestick or mucous membrane bodily fluids exposure prophylaxis and
       treatment. The individuals will be referred via an SF 513 consultation sheet to PH with
       their medical records after receiving treatment. PH will arrange for follow-up testing
       and treatment as necessary. If the evaluation occurs at other than normal duty hours the
       patient will be referred by the medical treatment facility rendering care to a healthcare
       provider at the 12 MDG. The HCP will, in turn, refer the patient to PH as described
       above.

  10.5. Notification of Evaluation. PH will provide a copy of the HCP’s written opinion,
  within 15 days of the completion of the evaluation, as outlined in 29 CFR 1910.1030. Also,
  PH will provide the exposed patient copies of results of their medical evaluation as well as
  copies of the serology test results when requested. PH will also inform the exposed member
  about the HBV and HIV status of the source patient and about the confidentiality of that
  information. Blood test results will only be provided to the exposed member in person (or
  via certified mail if member is unable to be contacted) and will be clearly documented in the
  medical record.
14                                                   RANDOLPHAFBI44-108             1 MARCH 2006

     10.6. Documentation of Testing, Evaluation, Treatment, and Notification:

            10.6.1. The source of potential exposures will have a SF 600 in their medical
            records indicating they were involved in a potential exposure incident, the tests
            required, and whether they accepted or declined testing (if retired military, civilian, or
            volunteer).

            10.6.2. Patients of potential exposure will have the incident documented on the SF
            600, SF 513, and on a 12 MDG Form 05-03 (Medical Group employees only). PH
            will maintain a roster (Sharps Injury Log may suffice) of the exposed patients and
            will provide reminders for follow-up testing and treatment, if necessary. A copy of
            the completed SF 600 will be filed in the individual's medical record.

            10.6.3. Record sharps injuries involving contaminated objects on the new OSHA
            Form 300, Log of Work Related Injuries, and OSHA Form 301, Injury and Illness
            Incident Report. These forms will be segregated from other types of injuries or
            illness documentation and forwarded to Base Ground Safety (12 FTW/SEG) on a
            monthly basis.

            10.6.4. Sharps Injury Log must be maintained for 5 years following the end of the
            year in which a sharps incident occurs. This log must contain type and brand of
            device, route of exposure, documentation of the source individual, work area where
            exposure occurred, and an explanation of how the event occurred.

11. Forms Prescribed. AF Forms 55, Employee Safety and Health Record. 12 MDG Form
05-03, Event Report Form. Standard Forms 513, Consultation Sheet, and 600, Chronological
Record of Medical Care. OSHA Forms 300, Log of Work Related Injuries, and 301, Injury
and Illness Incident Report.




                                             RICHARD M. CLARK, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 12th Flying Training Wing
