BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            RANDOLPH AFB INSTRUCTION 48-137
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                                                 1 MARCH 2006
                                                                  Certified Current 20 MAY 2008

                                                                              Aerospace Medicine

                                                   RESPIRATORY PROTECTION PROGRAM

         COMPLIANCE WITH THISPUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:          There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 12 ADS/SGGB (SrA Baskin)               Certified by: 12 MDGS/CC (Col Gavron)
Supersedes: RANDOLPHAFBI48-137, 10 May 2004                              Pages: 8

This instruction establishes responsibilities, procedures, and requirements for a thorough and
effective Respiratory Protection Program in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.134, Respiratory
Protection and Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standard 48-137,
Respiratory Protection Program. It applies to all organizations in which personnel wear
respirators or filtering face piece devices. This publication requires the collection and or
maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authority to collect
and maintain the records prescribed in this publication is Executive Order 9397. Air Force Form
55, Employee Safety and Health Record, has an appropriate PA statement. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFM 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (AF RDS) located at: https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS

Changes to this publication include the changing of supervisor responsibilities (paragraphs 1.2.3.
and 2.7.) and the authorization of wear of military-unique respirators by military members in
Chemical Biological Radiological Nuclear & High-Yield Explosive (CBRNE) environments
(paragraph 2.1.).

1. Responsibilities: Responsibilities are defined in AFOSH Std 48-137. Additional local
responsibilities regarding implementation of the base Respiratory Protection Program are:

   1.1. Base Program Administrator: Shall be the Flight Commander of the Bioenvironmental
   Engineering Flight (BEF) or a trained individual from the BEF designated by the Flight
   Commander IAW AFOSH Std 48-137.

   1.2. Workplace Supervisors shall:

       1.2.1. Contact the BEF for information and guidance regarding the Respiratory
       Protection Program. In case of an emergency after duty hours, a BEF representative may
       be contacted via the Randolph Command Center at 652-1859.
2                                              RANDOLPHAFBI48-137            1 MARCH 2006

    1.2.2. Contact the BEF to schedule initial Supervisor Respiratory Protection Training.
    This training is required for all supervisors who have the responsibility of overseeing
    work activities of one or more persons who wear respirators. Training must be re-
    accomplished for all new workplace supervisors, regardless of when prior training was
    accomplished. Training must be documented on the AF Form 55, or an approved
    automated system, such as Core-Automated Maintenance System (CAMS) or Enterprise
    Environmental, Safety, & Occupational Health Management Information System
    (EESOH-MIS).

    1.2.3. Ensure all personnel who wear respiratory protection receive initial medical
    screening, fit testing, and training prior to wearing a respirator. Ensure fit testing and
    training are received at least annually thereafter. Workplace supervisors are responsible
    for ensuring that workers receive training and are scheduled for fit-testing prior the
    expiration of their last fit-test. BEF will conduct all fit testing.

    1.2.4. Maintain this instruction and AFOSH Std 48-137 in work areas where respiratory
    protection is used. These documents are part of your work area written program.

    1.2.5. Develop and maintain a work area Respiratory Protection Program Operating
    Instruction (RPP OI) for all work areas where respirators are used. The BEF can provide
    an OI template and most of the technical information required below. This OI must
    include the following information and be approved by the BEF.

         1.2.5.1. Description of each situation or operation where respiratory protection is
         required.

         1.2.5.2. The name, chemical state, reasonable estimate of employee exposure, and
         the hazards associated with each chemical of concern.

         1.2.5.3. The specific respirators approved by the BEF for use in each
         situation/operation. Where airline respirators are used, the specific setup will be
         listed to include, as a minimum, the manufacturer/serial number/type of
         compressor, delivery pressure(s), breathing class, hose type/length, types of alarms,
         etc.

         1.2.5.4. Procedures for the proper use of respirators, to include mandatory user
         seal check procedures.

         1.2.5.5. Procedures and schedules for inspecting, cleaning, disinfecting, storing,
         repairing, discarding, and maintaining respirators. Ensure OI reflects cleaning and
         disinfecting procedures outlined in Appendix B-2 of 29 CFR 1910.134, or
         procedures recommended by the manufacturer, if equivalent in effectiveness.

         1.2.5.6. BEF will generate workshop specific cartridge change-out schedules for
         all shops that utilize air-purifying respirators with chemical cartridges. This
         schedule must be implemented as an element in the shop’s OI.
RANDOLPHAFBI48-137          1 MARCH 2006                                                       3

            1.2.5.7. An element must be included that states when and how often shop
            personnel; to include supervisors, respirator maintainers, & respirator users must be
            medically evaluated, trained and/or fit-tested.

            1.2.5.8. Procedures for regularly evaluating the effectiveness of the program.

            1.2.5.9. Where atmosphere-supplying (airline or SCBA) respirators are used,
            procedures for ensuring that the air is tested quarterly and meets Grade D
            requirements as stated in T.O. 42B-1-22, Quality Control of Compressed and
            Liquid Breathing Air, and 29 CFR 1910.134. Procedures must also be included to
            ensure that BE receives copies of the laboratory test results.

      1.2.6. Contact the BEF to request an evaluation of potentially hazardous airborne
      substances when there are changes in work practices, inoperative engineering controls,
      substance substitutions, newly acquired chemicals, or when personnel experience
      symptoms indicative of chemical exposures.

      1.2.7. Provide initial and annual training IAW the attached lesson plan for individuals
      who elect to wear filtering face piece devices (FFPD). Training must be documented on
      the AF Form 55, CAMS, or EESOH-MIS.

      1.2.8. Ensure that replacement respirator parts are used only on the respirator for which
      they are intended (i.e. do not mix and match parts). Mixing parts (including airline
      hoses) will invalidate the certification of the respirator.

      1.2.9. Receive written approval from the BEF for a specific make and model of
      respirator, prior to submitting an order to Base Supply or making an IMPAC card
      purchase. The certified personal protective equipment (PPE) list provided by the BEF
      during routine occupational health surveillance may serve this purpose.

   1.3. 12th Logistics Readiness Squadron shall:

      1.3.1. Ensure the BEF has approved each respiratory protection request before
      purchasing, ordering, or issuing respirators.

      1.3.2. Ensure “suitable substitutes” for any respirator or respirator part are not
      purchased, ordered, or issued.

      1.3.3. Ensure all respirators and respirator parts are issue exception code (IEX) coded
      “Z”.

2. Base Program Elements.

   2.1. Procedures for Selecting Respirators: Respiratory protection will be selected and
   approved by the BEF prior to purchase. Respirators will be selected to protect against the
   specific inhalation hazards present in the work area. Only National Institute of Occupational
4                                                  RANDOLPHAFBI48-137             1 MARCH 2006

    Safety and Health (NIOSH) certified respirators will be used except in military-unique
    operations in CBRNE environments by military personnel.

    2.2. Medical Evaluations of Employees.

       2.2.1. A medical evaluation to determine each employee’s fitness to use a respirator is
       required prior to fit testing and use of respiratory protection.

       2.2.2. A medical questionnaire must be completed by each employee who is to wear
       respiratory protection. This questionnaire can be obtained from the Public Health Flight,
       652-2456. Questionnaires will be kept confidential.

       2.2.3. Each employee has the right to discuss the results of their medical questionnaire
       and exam with a medical provider. Contact Flight Medicine to schedule an appointment
       if desired.

       2.2.4. The medical provider will provide a written recommendation for each employee
       who is medically screened for the respiratory protection program. This recommendation
       will state any limitations on respirator use, and a copy will be provided to the employee
       and a copy will be placed in the employee's medical record.

       2.2.5. Full medical evaluations do not need to be conducted annually.

       2.2.6. Additional medical evaluations will be required if:

            2.2.6.1. The employee has signs or symptoms related to their ability to use a
            respirator.

            2.2.6.2. A health care provider, supervisor, or Respiratory Protection Program
            Manager determines another evaluation is necessary.

            2.2.6.3. Information from the BEF, including observations during fit testing, shop
            surveys, or program evaluation indicates a need for reevaluation.

            2.2.6.4. A change in workplace conditions occurs (e.g. physical work conditions,
            protective clothing, process changes, etc.) that may result in a substantial increase in
            the physiological burden placed on an employee. This pertains to individuals
            changing job tasks, changing the PPE that is worn to complete a task, and/or
            moving to a new work area. If an individual is performing the same job but at a
            different location with similar environmental conditions, then a new evaluation is
            not needed. The final decision rests with the primary care manager.

       2.2.7. An abbreviated medical questionnaire is required for annual medical surveillance.

    2.3. Fit Testing Procedures
RANDOLPHAFBI48-137          1 MARCH 2006                                                         5

     2.3.1. Fit test procedures in 29 CFR 1910.134 Appendix A will be followed. A copy of
     this standard will be maintained in the BEF office.

     2.3.2. Fit tests will be conducted with the same make, model, style, and size of
     respirator to be worn during actual operations. The BEF will determine if personnel must
     bring their respirator face piece to the BEF for fit testing. Each individual must bring any
     corrective lenses that will be worn with the respirator to the fit test.

     2.3.3. Fit tests will be accomplished at the BEF (Bldg. 1040) prior to requiring an
     employee to wear a respirator, and at least annually thereafter. Personnel must have a
     current fit test in order to wear a respirator. Additionally, fit testing is required if there
     are any changes in physical condition (such as facial scarring, dental changes, cosmetic
     surgery, or 20 lbs in body weight) that could affect the face seal of the respirator.

     2.3.4. The BEF will not fit test any individual without proof of an initial or annual
     medical evaluation. The currency of all medical evaluations will be validated through
     PHF.

     2.3.5. Fit tests will be documented on an AF Form 2772, Certificate of Respirator Fit
     Test or equivalent. A copy will be given to the employee and must be maintained with
     their AF Form 55, Employee Health & Safety Record, or equivalent, or with the
     section’s Respiratory Protection Program Binder, until the next fit test is administered. A
     copy of each AF Form 2772 will also be maintained at the BEF.

  2.4. Procedures for Proper Use of Respirators in Routine and Emergency Situations.

     2.4.1. Personnel who have facial hair that comes between the respirator’s sealing surface
     and the face, or that interferes with valve function will not wear tight fitting respirators.
     AFOSH Standard 48-137 defines facial hair as "Any hair on the face of an individual
     which interferes with a normal face-to-respirator seal. This includes beards, sideburns,
     mustaches, goatees, stubble, or more than one day's facial hair growth."

     2.4.2. Employees who have any conditions that interfere with the face-to-face piece seal
     will not wear tight fitting respirators.

     2.4.3. Corrective glasses, goggles, or other personal protective equipment must be worn
     so that they do not interfere with the face-to-face piece seal. Spectacles with straps or
     temple bars that pass through the face-to-face piece seal are expressly forbidden. This
     includes the military issue corrective glasses issued for use with the MCU-2P. Gas
     permeable soft contact lenses may be worn with respirators.

     2.4.4. A user seal check is required each time a tight fitting face piece is put donned.

     2.4.5. Employees will leave the respirator use area when they suspect their respirator is
     not working properly. For example, when they detect vapor or gas breakthrough (i.e.
     they smell chemicals), when breathing resistance changes (i.e. it becomes difficult or
6                                                 RANDOLPHAFBI48-137             1 MARCH 2006

       much easier to breathe), when there is leakage around the face piece, or when filtering
       elements are to be replaced. Required repairs/maintenance must be accomplished before
       returning to the work area.

       2.4.6. With the exception of Fire Department, Hazardous Material Spill Team, and BEF
       personnel in emergency situations, no Randolph AFB employee will enter an
       Immediately Dangerous to Life or Health (IDLH) atmosphere.

    2.5. Procedures and Schedules for Cleaning, Disinfecting, Storing, Inspecting, Discarding,
    and Otherwise Maintaining Respirators.

       2.5.1. Routinely used respirators on Randolph AFB will be issued to individuals for
       exclusive use by one worker only. These respirators will be cleaned and disinfected as
       often as necessary to be maintained in a sanitary condition. At a minimum, these
       respirators will be cleaned and sanitized at the end of each day in which the respirator is
       used. Each individual issued a respirator is responsible for its primary maintenance and
       care.

       2.5.2. Routine use respirators will be inspected before each use an after cleaning and
       disinfecting procedures are completed as stated in paragraph 2.5.1.

       2.5.3. Emergency use/Escape respirators will be inspected at least monthly, and will be
       checked for proper function before and after each use.

       2.5.4. An AF Form 1071, Inspection/Maintenance Record, shall be maintained for
       each SCBA and airline respirator to document inspections, cleaning and disinfecting
       procedures

       2.5.5. Emergency use respirators shall be quickly accessible at all times, and their
       storage area shall be clearly marked.

       2.5.6. Any respirator that does not meet inspection criteria shall be immediately
       removed from service and replaced/repaired.

    2.6. Procedures to Ensure Adequate Quality, Quantity, and Flow of Breathing Air for
    Supplied Air Respirators: Compressed breathing air shall meet at least the requirements for
    Type 1-Grade D breathing air. Other requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134 and T.O. 42B-1-22
    will be met, and will be addressed in work area RPP OI's.

    2.7. Training of Employees in Respiratory Hazards and Proper Use of Respirators, to
    Include Donning & Doffing, Limitations & Maintenance: Training is required at least
    annually. Workplace supervisors will ensure initial and annual training takes place before
    annual fit testing. Employees will be required to demonstrate knowledge of the following:

       2.7.1. Why respirators are necessary and how improper fit, usage, or maintenance can
       compromise the protective effect of the respirator.
RANDOLPHAFBI48-137            1 MARCH 2006                                                    7

       2.7.2. Capabilities and limitations of the respirator.

       2.7.3. How to use a respirator effectively in emergency situations, to include situations
       when the respirator malfunctions.

       2.7.4. How to inspect, don, doff, use, and perform a seal check of the respirator.

       2.7.5. Guidelines for respirator maintenance and storage.

       2.7.6. The general requirements of 29 CFR 1910.134.

   2.8. Emergency and Rescue Team (Fire Department) Respirator Training: This training
   will be conducted by the Fire Chief or his designated trainer. A lesson plan must be attached
   to the Fire Department RPP OI. BEF will provide consultation on request.

   2.9. Procedures for Regularly Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Program: BEF will
   evaluate work areas where respirators are worn at least annually. During these visits
   employees will be asked if there are any problems with the program, and checks will be
   made to ensure the written program is being properly implemented.

   2.10. Elective Use of Respirators: With the exception of filtering face piece devices (dust
   masks); elective use respirators are not permitted. Personnel who wear filtering face piece
   devices will be trained by the supervisor on the attached information. Filtering Face Piece
   Device training will be documented on AF Form 55 or equivalent.

3. Forms Adopted. AF Forms 55, Employee Safety and Health Record (PA), 1071,
Inspection/Maintenance Record, and 2772, Certificate of Respirator Fit Test.




                                               RICHARD M. CLARK, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 12th Flying Training Wing

Attachment:
1. Lesson Plan for Filtering Face Piece Device Users
8                                                   RANDOLPHAFBI48-137            1 MARCH 2006

                                          Attachment 1

            LESSON PLAN FOR FILTERING FACE PIECE DEVICE USERS

1. Filtering face piece devices are not considered by the US Air Force to be respiratory
protection for purposes of AFOSH Std 48-137, Respiratory Protection Program. These devices
may be worn strictly for comfort purposes if an Air Force employee desires to wear them.

2. Their supervisor must train filtering face piece device users initially and annually on the
limitations of these devices.

3. Filtering Face Piece Device (FFPD) Limitations:

    3.1. FFPDs are approved by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health
    (NIOSH) as protection against dusts and mists ONLY. That is, they remove some particles,
    but not gases and vapors.

    3.2. Examples of contaminants an FFPD will NOT remove include carbon monoxide,
    solvents (in paint, cleaning solutions, etc), fuel vapors, alcohol vapors, and acids.

    3.3. Examples of contaminants an FFPD may remove to a level that could increase your
    comfort include wood dust, cement dust, dirt, spray enamel mist (the pigment only), and
    fiberglass. This will only happen IF you are able to maintain a good face-to-face piece seal.

    3.4. FFPDs are NEVER to be worn during tasks for which respiratory protection is required,
    as specified by the BEF.

    3.5. FFPDs are NEVER to be used in atmospheres that could be immediately dangerous to
    life and health.

    3.6. FFPDs are NEVER to be used in atmospheres containing less than 19.5 percent oxygen.

    3.7. Follow the manufacturer’s instruction for replacing FFPDs. In general, if you detect
    breathing resistance you must replace the FFPD.

    3.8. The FFPD should be worn and maintained IAW the manufacturer’s instructions. The
    nosepiece and cup should be fitted as close as possible to the face. Straps should be
    positioned IAW manufacturer’s instructions so that the FFPD does not shift. Straps will not
    be worn overhead coverings or hard hats.

    3.9. An FFPD will provide little or no protection if the wearer is not clean-shaven.
