BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                             RANDOLPH AFB INSTRUCTION 40-101
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                                              1 NOVEMBER 2005
                                                                      Certified Current 8 June 2008

                                                                                 Medical Command

                                                               FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM

         COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:           There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 12 MDOS/SGOHF (Capt Beville)                         Certified by: 12 MDG/CC (Col Gavron)
                                                                                      Pages: 5

This instruction implements AFPD 40-1, Health Promotion and AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy.
It establishes policy and procedures to identify, minimize, and, where possible, prevent family
maltreatment at Randolph AFB. It further establishes policy for identifying and assisting Air
Force family members with special medical, psychological, or educational needs. It is directed
to all base personnel. It establishes procedures to identify, report, assess, and treat families who
are at risk for maltreatment and/or experiencing domestic violence. Ensure all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFM 37-
123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) (available at https://afrims.amc.af.mil).

This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information subject to the Privacy Act of
1974 authorized by 10, USC 8013. Section 9012, Title 10, United States Code, and Executive
Order 9397 are authority for establishing and maintaining medical records. Family Advocacy
personnel will show, and upon request, give the involved individual a Privacy Act Statement for
each form used to collect personal data before asking for the information.

1. References:

   1.1. AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program

   1.2. AFPD 37-1, Air Force Information Management

   1.3. AFI 40-301, Family Advocacy

   1.4. AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Functions

   1.5. Air Force Family Advocacy Program Standards, October 2004

   1.6. Memorandum of Understanding, 19 April 2004
2                                           RANDOLPHAFBI40-101           1 NOVEMBER 2005


2. Policy:

    2.1. Mission Statement. The Randolph AFB Family Advocacy Program (FAP) supports
    the12th Flying Training Wing, 12th Medical Group, and all tenant units assigned to
    Randolph AFB. The FAP, a medical program mandated by Congress, is designed to build
    healthy Air Force communities and enhance mission readiness through the prevention and
    treatment of family maltreatment. Whenever a credible suspicion of family maltreatment is
    reported, the FAP will provide prevention or maltreatment services in a collaborative
    partnership with base and community agencies.

    2.2. The FAP team assists in assessing community needs, designing prevention services in
    collaboration with the base Integrated Delivery System. This program serves all
    beneficiaries of DoD medical treatment facilities.

3. Responsibilities:

    3.1. The Family Advocacy Committee (FAC) is tasked to ensure the implementation of the
    local FAP IAW DOD Directive 6400.1, Air Force Policy Directive 40-3, AFI 40-301, and
    Air Force Family Advocacy Program Standards. The FAC will meet at least quarterly, or on
    an as needed basis, in response to base organizational or family needs. The committee will
    ensure teamwork, coordination, and the appropriate exchange of information occurs between
    Randolph’s FAP, installation, and community agencies.

       3.1.1.    FAC membership includes representation from senior leadership and
       organizational support services. The following positions are to be represented on this
       committee:     Installation Commander or designee, Medical Group Commander
       (Chairperson), Installation Staff Chaplain, Staff Judge Advocate representative, Family
       Advocacy Officer (FAO), Family Advocacy Outreach Manager, Security Forces
       Squadron (SFS) Commander, Military Personnel Flight Chief, Air Force Office of
       Special Investigations (AFOSI) Commander or designee, Family Support Center
       Director, and Family Member Support Flight Chief.

       3.1.2.    The CRB is a multidisciplinary team that makes case status determinations
       regarding allegations of family maltreatment. The Vice Wing Commander chairs the
       CRB. In his or her absence, the Mission Support Group Commander may chair the CRB.
       After the CRB makes its determinations, another committee, Clinical Case Staffing team,
       makes treatment recommendations for the victim and offender in the maltreatment case.
       This team will ensure involved unit commanders are informed of findings,
       recommendations for intervention, and participation in treatment. Membership will
       include at least the following: FAO (chairperson), Family Advocacy Treatment Manager
       (FATM), Family Advocacy Nurse, Family Advocacy Outreach Manager and the Family
       Advocacy Program Assistant.

       3.1.3. The Child Sexual Maltreatment Response Team, under the direction of the FAC,
       manages the initial response to all child sexual maltreatment allegations. Members
RANDOLPHAFBI40-101         1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                   3

     include:     FAO, Judge Advocate representative, AFOSI representative, SFS
     representative, Child Protective Services (CPS) representative, and any other agency
     having legal, investigative, or child protective responsibilities as appropriate.

     3.1.4.    The High Risk for Violence Response Team, established by the FAC, manages
     potentially dangerous situations involving FAP clients when a family unit, family
     member, or staff member may be in imminent danger of being harmed by a Family
     Advocacy client or ex-client. This team offers a coordinated community response to
     high-risk or potentially dangerous lethal spouse maltreatment cases. Members include:
     FAO, FATM (working with the family), squadron commander, first sergeant, SFS
     representative, Judge Advocate representative, Life Skills Provider, AFOSI
     representative, and any other agency having legal, investigative, or protective
     responsibilities.

  3.2. Duty to Report. In accordance with AFI 40-301, (Para 1.16), all active duty members
  and civilian employees of the Air Force are required to report any suspected incident(s) of
  family maltreatment. Additionally, all medical personnel, law enforcement agents, school
  educators, youth service personnel, family home daycare providers, and child development
  staff are mandated to report suspected child abuse or neglect. Failure to do so can result in
  disciplinary actions. Incidents of suspected spousal violence should be reported to law
  enforcement and referred to the Family Advocacy Office for assessment.

  3.3. FAP Staff. Whenever a report of suspected child maltreatment or family violence is
  received, the FAP staff will gather information to assess for possible abuse and establish
  victim safety. FAP staff will make all the appropriate notifications as outlined in the FAP
  Standards. FAP Outreach Managers are available to provide consultation, education, and
  referral to families in pursuit of knowledge to prevent domestic violence.

  3.4. Law Enforcement. All SFS personnel are key members of the installation response to
  incidents of suspected child and spouse maltreatment. Law enforcement will notify by
  telephone contact, e-mail, blotter entry, or hard copy information any reports of suspected
  domestic violence to the Family Advocacy Office for disposition.

  3.5. Judge Advocate. Staff of the Judge Advocate’s office will remain available to assist in
  consulting with the Family Advocacy Office.

  3.6. Office of Special Investigations.    Detachment agents will be available to consult,
  advise, and refer as needed.

  3.7. Medical Group: The 12th Medical Group will provide medical care, consultation and
  treatment in support of the Family Advocacy Program.

  3.8. Youth Services: Family Member Flight Personnel including child development
  program staff, school-age program staff, youth center personnel, family child care providers,
  and volunteers will report suspicions of child maltreatment directly to the program directors
  and or supervisors who will then report to the family member programs chief. Information
4                                            RANDOLPHAFBI40-101            1 NOVEMBER 2005

    will be reported both verbally and in writing. The director/supervisor or the family member
    programs flight chief will contact CPS and the FAO during duty hours to report suspected
    family maltreatment. If the report is received after duty hours, the director/supervisor or
    family member programs flight chief will contact the on-call FAP representative after CPS is
    notified. The director/supervisor or the family member programs flight chief will forward
    the report in writing to the FAO.

4. Procedures:

    4.1. Normal Duty Hours: All reports of suspected child maltreatment or family violence
    will be accepted by the Family Advocacy Office. The FAP staff is required to provide
    emergent and/or scheduled assessments of family/parent-child systems and couples to
    determine safety of all its members. Treatment plans and/or referrals will be accomplished
    as appropriate.

    4.2. After Duty Hours: All reports to Family Advocacy made after duty hours may be
    initially directed to SFS. SFS will consult with the on-call Life Skills/Family Advocacy
    representative. A provider is on-call for any consultation or referral to appropriate
    installation or community agencies. This reflects the approved 2004 Memorandum of
    Understanding with the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services (TDFPS). The
    on-call provider will determine the appropriate intervention and will contact TDFPS CPS if it
    appears that child abuse or neglect has occurred.

    4.3. The FAO will inform all involved commanders and first sergeants of the member’s
    involvement in the FAP
    .
    4.4. High Interest Cases: Special attention will be given to all suspected child maltreatment
    incidents occurring in DOD sanctioned activities, including Randolph Elementary, Middle,
    and High School, Youth Center, and the Child Development Center. Incidents resulting in
    major injury, death, or child sexual abuse, will be coordinated from the base community
    agency responsible for the investigation. The FAO may be the point of contact for
    coordinating involved services.

    4.5. Child Placement: TDFPS has jurisdiction on base to determine temporary foster care
    for children at imminent risk. Prior to taking a child into protective custody from base
    quarters, TDFPS will notify the FAO to ensure that security needs are met. The FAO will
    contact SFS to coordinate a law enforcement safety escort of the CPS worker to base
    quarters. The following information will be provided to the Law Enforcement desk upon
    request of a safety escort: name and phone number of the Family Advocacy representative;
    name of the CPS worker; estimated time of arrival; and location of where the child will be
    removed. The SFS will consult with the Staff Judge Advocate to obtain authorization from
    the 12th Flying Training Wing Commander to remove the child from base quarters. During
    non-duty hours, TDFPS/CPS will contact the FAO or the designated Life Skills provider on-
    call to coordinate the emergency removal of a child from base quarters. The on-call provider
    will contact SFS and the on-call Staff Judge Advocate to coordinate law enforcement support
    of the CPS worker and to obtain authorization from the 12th Flying Training Wing
RANDOLPHAFBI40-101          1 NOVEMBER 2005                                                 5

   Commander. On the following duty day, CPS will coordinate further management of the
   case with the FAO.

   4.6. Photographs: In cases of apparent physical abuse or neglect, photographs will be taken
   to support evidence. Photos will be taken as soon as possible before external evidence of
   injuries subsides, or to document damage or neglect to physical property. The Base Photo
   Lab/Alert Photographer can be contacted through SFS or AFOSI.

   4.7. Medical Evaluation and Treatment: In cases of suspected physical abuse, sexual abuse,
   or neglect, when appropriate, a physician will evaluate, treat, document, and if necessary,
   refer for further evaluation and care. The Medical Group Commander and Chief of Medical
   Staff will provide guidance on all cases.

   4.8. If child sexual abuse is suspected, CPS will be contacted to coordinate a medical
   evaluation and interview of the child at the Child Advocacy Center. A custodial parent, who
   is not suspected of misconduct, will be contacted prior to the examination.

5. Special Needs Identification and Assignment Coordination (SNIAC) Program

   5.1. Purpose: Identifies active duty sponsors with family members who have been
   determined to have special medical, psychological, or educational needs. SNIAC assists
   families with obtaining information on required services and assures access to required
   services if reassigned.

   5.2. Special Needs Coordinator (SNC): In all cases the SNC will make final eligibility
   determination after consultation with the appropriate sub-specialist. SNIAC enrollment is
   mandatory for active duty sponsors whose family members meet enrollment criteria

   5.3. Family Member Relocation Clearance (FMRC) Process: All family members traveling
   overseas for an accompanied tour with an active duty sponsor will be cleared through the
   FMRC process. Family members with special needs will have a FMRC screening for PCS
   travel to stateside as well as overseas locations.




                                            JOHN W. HESTERMAN III, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 12th Flying Training Wing
6   RANDOLPHAFBI40-101   1 NOVEMBER 2005
