BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          RANDOLPH AFB INSTRUCTION 51-901
12TH FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                                           24 OCTOBER 2008

                                                                                           Law

                                     DISPOSITION OF JUVENILE MISCONDUCT CASES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
                      e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASIBILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 12 FTW/JA                             Certified by: 12 FTW/SJA (Lt Col S. Ecton)
Supersedes RANDOLPHAFBI51-1, 20 January 2005                                Pages: 6

This instruction implements AFPD 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals, and AFI 51-905, Use of
Magistrate Judges for Trial of Misdemeanors Committed by Civilians. The purpose of this
instruction is to establish policies, responsibilities, and procedures for the administrative
disposition of misconduct committed by juveniles on Randolph Air Force Base (AFB), and to
establish the Randolph AFB Juvenile Misconduct Board (JMB). It is applicable to all juvenile
dependents of active duty service members, retirees, and DOD civilians stationed or working on
Randolph AFB or any base in the surrounding area. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition
Schedule (AF RDS) located at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims.

SUMMARY OR CHANGES

This revision removed all references to AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement and AFI 31-101, The Air
Force Installation Security Program. Additionally, this publication was renumbered from
RANDOLPHAFBI51-1 to RANDOLPHAFBI51-901 to comply with requirements in AFI 33-
360, Publications and Forms Management, paragraph 2.10.5. requiring control numbers to be at
least 3 digits.

1. Authority. The installation commander (12 FTW/CC) is charged with establishing law
enforcement programs, identifying requirements and executing programs that will provide safe
and secure living and working conditions on Randolph AFB. To assist in achieving this goal, a
Juvenile Misconduct Board (JMB) will be formed to address misconduct committed by juvenile
dependants that cannot be addressed by other means such as privilege revocation.

2. Terms Explained.

   2.1. Juvenile. This includes any person under the age of 18 years who is not on active duty
   with the United States military.
2                                            RANDOLPHAFBI51-901            24 OCTOBER 2008

    2.2. Misconduct. Any criminal act, violation of federal or state statute, violation of Air
    Force or installation instructions or regulations, or other act which is prejudicial to good
    order and discipline on Randolph AFB or breaches the peace on Randolph AFB or does not
    conform to reasonable community standards of expected conduct on Randolph AFB.

    2.3. Juvenile Misconduct Board (JMB). The Board is responsible for reviewing cases of
    suspected juvenile misconduct on Randolph AFB that are not handled by other means. JMB
    hearings are not criminal proceedings.

3. Policy.

    3.1. Not every incident of juvenile misconduct will be brought before the JMB. Juveniles
    under the age of 10 should not be brought before the JMB unless the seriousness of the
    incident clearly warrants it. Only those cases reflecting behavior serious enough to warrant
    command interest will be considered by the JMB. Every action by the JMB will be designed
    to encourage appropriate behavior by juveniles and to preserve good order and discipline on
    Randolph AFB.

    3.2. All reports of investigation disclosing misconduct committed by juveniles on Randolph
    Air Force Base will be forwarded to the Office of the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) and the 12
    FTW/CC. The SJA will make a recommendation on the appropriateness of referring the case
    to a JMB.

    3.3. Incidents of misconduct which do not result in investigation by SFOI or OSI may also be
    referred to the SJA by interested staff agency chiefs or unit commanders.

    3.4. The 12 FTW/CC will decide which cases will be referred to the JMB. The 12 FTW/CC
    may, without convening the JMB, directly take corrective action. In no way is the 12
    FTW/CC’s scope of authority limited by a decision not to convene a board. Further, the 12
    FTW/CC is free to take any corrective action, including those set forth in paragraph 7 below,
    which are within his or her authority. Finally, the 12 FTW/CC may refer cases to the
    member’s immediate commander for appropriate action.

4. Composition of the JMB.

    4.1. The President of this Board and deciding official for the JMB will be 12 MSG/CD.

    4.2. A representative from 12 FTW/JA will be a member of the JMB and will provide legal
    counsel and advice to the JMB.

    4.3. A representative from 12 MDOS/SGOH (Family Advocacy Program) will be a member
    of the JMB and will make recommendations to its President.

    4.4. A senior enlisted member, coordinated through 12 FTW/CCC and designated by the
    12 FTW/CC, will be a member of the JMB and will make recommendations to its President.
RANDOLPHAFBI51-901            24 OCTOBER 2008                                                      3

   4.5. A paralegal from 12 FTW/JA will also be present at all JMB proceedings to create a
   written summary of the recommendations of the board.

5. Responsibilities. The following duties and responsibilities are assigned:

   5.1. Security Forces (12 SFS/CC) will:

       5.1.1. Prepare an incident report upon notice of juvenile misconduct.

       5.1.2. Provide a copy of the incident report to the 12 FTW/SJA for review. The 12
       SFS/CC may provide a recommendation as to whether a JMB is appropriate.

       5.1.3. Make available, if possible, the responding patrol persons and/or investigators as
       witnesses to the incident if requested by the JMB. The JMB will be apprised if
       constraints prevent this from occurring.

   5.2. The Medical Operations Squadron (12 MDOS/CC) will provide a representative from
   12 MDOS/SGOH (Family Advocacy Program) to attend all JMB hearings.

   5.3. Staff Judge Advocate (12 FTW/SJA) will:

       5.3.1. Evaluate each case based on the information received from Security Forces.
       12 FTW/SJA will make a recommendation as to disposition of the incident of juvenile
       misconduct. This recommendation, along with the recommendation from the 12 SFS/CC,
       if any, should be forwarded to 12 MSG/CD with the following exceptions:

           5.3.1.1. 12 FTW/SJA may, if circumstances warrant immediate action, recommend
           immediate barment to the 12 FTW/CC.

          5.3.1.2. 12 FTW/SJA may refer the case to State or Federal authorities.

       5.3.2. Prepare a notification letter for 12 MSG/CD’s signature addressed to the sponsor’s
       commander or first sergeant. The notification letter will include the date and time the
       JMB will be convened. An attached first indorsement should be served on the member
       by his or her unit commander or first sergeant and signed by the member.

       5.3.3. Prepare a notification letter for 12 MSG/CD’s signature addressed to the military
       sponsor. The notification letter will include the reason for the JMB and the date and time
       the JMB will be convened.

       5.3.4. Prepare a post-hearing decision letter for signature by the 12 FTW/CC, or designee,
       addressed to the juvenile announcing the final disposition of the case.

           5.3.4.1. A courtesy copy of the decision letter must be sent to the sponsor.

           5.3.4.2. The letter should be mailed within 10 days of the conclusion of the hearing.
4                                             RANDOLPHAFBI51-901              24 OCTOBER 2008

       5.3.5. Provide a representative to attend all JMB hearings and provide advice and legal
       counsel to the JMB.

       5.3.6. Provide a paralegal to attend all JMB hearings and create a written summary of all
       decisions by the JMB.

    5.4. The military sponsor of the suspected juvenile offender will:

       5.4.1. Appear before the JMB as directed in the notification letter in service dress.

           5.4.1.1. Appearance is a mandatory appointment for military members.

           5.4.1.2. Appearance by the juvenile is strongly encouraged.

    5.5. The commander or first sergeant of the military sponsor will:

       5.5.1. Serve the JMB notification letter on the military sponsor, informing him or her of
       the reason for the JMB and the date and time of the board, and obtain the signature of the
       military sponsor on the first indorsement to the notification letter.

       5.5.2. Return the first indorsement to 12 FTW/JA.

    5.6. 12 MSG/CD will:

       5.6.1. Make recommendations to 12 FTW/CC regarding disposition of juvenile cases.

       5.6.2. Conduct hearings as necessary for cases referred to a JMB by the 12 FTW/CC.

       5.6.3. Serve as the President of and deciding official for the JMB, and in that capacity,
       preside over hearings of all referred cases of alleged misconduct.

       5.6.4. After consulting with the other members of the JMB and considering the
       statements, if any, presented by or on behalf of the juvenile, determine if misconduct has
       occurred. If so, 12 MSG/CD, after consulting with the other members of the JMB, will
       determine the punishment to be recommended to 12 FTW/CC. All recommended
       punishment should be made with a view toward encouraging appropriate behavior by the
       juvenile and preserving good order and discipline on Randolph AFB.

6. Conducting the JMB Hearing.

    6.1. The hearing will be presided over by 12 MSG/CD.

    6.2. The JMB, through the appropriate command channels, may request the appearance of
    any military or civilian employee witness deemed necessary for the resolution of the case.
    The JMB may rely solely on hearsay evidence deemed by the JMB to be reliable.
RANDOLPHAFBI51-901            24 OCTOBER 2008                                                  5

   6.3. The juvenile, military sponsor, parent and/or guardian may make an oral statement. Any
   further information provided must be in writing.

   6.4. This is not an adversarial or criminal hearing. The juvenile offender and his or her
   sponsor have no right to have legal counsel or an attorney to represent them during the
   hearing. They do not have the right to cross-examine witnesses called by the JMB or the
   right to call witnesses. However, the JMB may permit the family member or sponsor to call
   witnesses or submit written statements.

   6.5. All findings by the JMB shall be based on a preponderance of evidence.

7. Appropriate Response to Juvenile Misconduct.

   7.1. After considering the evidence of misconduct, any statement by or on behalf of the
   juvenile and/or written submissions to the allegations of misconduct, the JMB, through the
   12 MSG/CD, will render findings of fact.

   7.2. Consistent with any findings of misconduct, the JMB, through the 12 MSG/CD, will
   make a recommendation to the 12 FTW/CC, or designee. This recommendation may
   include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following:

      7.2.1. To take no action.

      7.2.2. To have the JMB, or designee, give the juvenile an oral counseling.

      7.2.3. To issue a formal letter of admonishment or warning.

      7.2.4. To require that the juvenile submit an essay.

      7.2.5. To refer the juvenile to an agency for counseling with the cost, if any, to be borne
      by the juvenile’s sponsor.

      7.2.6. To refer the juvenile to a commercial shoplifter’s education program with the cost,
      if any, to be borne by the juvenile’s sponsor.

      7.2.7. To refer the juvenile to a base community service program.

      7.2.8. To refer the juvenile to an off-base community service program.

      7.2.9. To place certain areas or base functions off-limits to the juvenile.

      7.2.10. To impose a curfew on the juvenile.

      7.2.11. To recommend the suspension or revocation of privileges.
6                                             RANDOLPHAFBI51-901             24 OCTOBER 2008

       7.2.12. To recommend the termination of the right to government quarters for the military
       sponsor based on the actions of the juvenile.

       7.2.13. To refer the case to State or Federal authorities, through the assigned Assistant
       United States Attorney. However, this referral can only be prosecuted with the
       concurrence of the assigned Assistant United States Attorney.

       7.2.14. To request that the juvenile make restitution.

       7.2.15. To recommend barment of the juvenile from the installation.

8. Decision. If 12 FTW/CC refers an incident of misconduct to the JMB, 12 FTW/CC will
make a final decision after considering the recommendation of the JMB. The 12 FTW/CC’s
decision is final and not subject to appeal. Notice of the 12 FTW/CC’s decision will be served
on the sponsor, who will acknowledge receipt.

9. Failure to Comply. Failure to comply with any action or direction of the JMB by the
juvenile will be reported, as determined to be necessary, by the 12 MSG/CD, to the 12 FTW/CC.
When a juvenile fails to comply with the actions or directions of the JMB, the following actions
may be taken:

    9.1. A letter of warning may be sent to the juvenile and the military sponsor by the 12
    MSG/CD on behalf of the JMB.

    9.2. The juvenile and military sponsor may be scheduled to appear at the next JMB to explain
    the failure to comply with the actions or directions of the JMB.

    9.3. The JMB, through the 12 MSG/CD, may recommend that the 12 FTW/CC terminate the
    right to government quarters for the military sponsor based on the actions of the juvenile.

    9.4. The JMB, through the 12 MSG/CD, may recommend that the 12 FTW/CC bar the
    juvenile from the installation.



                                             JACQUELINE D. VAN OVOST, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 12th Flying Training Wing
