BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                        21-115

                                                                                7 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                      CRASHED, DAMAGED OR DISABLED
                                                         AIRCRAFT RECOVERY (CDDAR)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and Forms are available on the e-Publishing website at for
               downloading or ordering at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication


OPR: 78 OSS/DO                                                          Certified by: 78 OSS/CC
                                                                          (Lt Col Dwayne Gray)
                                                                                        Pages: 17
Supersedes:    ROBINSAFBI 21-115,
               12 January 2011


This instruction establishes joint procedures for the recovery of crashed, damaged or disabled
aircraft on Robins AFB or within the geographical area of responsibility of the base. This
instruction meets the requirements for a complex OI, and can be implemented in conjunction
with Robins AFB Plan 10-2, Installation Emergency Management Plan (IEMP), Appendix 2 to
Annex A, Aircraft Accidents and Robins AFB Plan 91-1 Aircraft Mishap Response. This
instruction is applicable to all units that may be tasked to support aircraft recovery operations,
including Robin’s Mission Partner units. These units must be prepared to rapidly deploy crash
recovery equipment and personnel for crashed, damaged or disabled aircraft when required.
Additionally, it applies to the Air National Guard, USMC, and other mission partner flying units,
except where noted otherwise. This publication may not be supplemented at any level. Requests
for waivers must come through the chain of command from the commander of the office seeking
relief from compliance. Waiver requests must be submitted to the OPR; waiver authority has not
been delegated. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office
of primary responsibility (OPR), 78th Operations Support Squadron (78 OSS), using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
 2                                                                              ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and requires a complete review. This revision
removes redundancy in text and organizes responsibilities, procedures and operating instructions
to align RAFBI 21-115 closer to RAFB Installation Emergency Management Plan (IEMP) 10-2
and RAFB Plan 91-1.


        1.      Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................    2
        2.      Host Installation/Mission Partner CDDAR Responsibilities .................................                                 4
        3.      Vehicle/Equipment Requirements .........................................................................                   5
        4.      Inspection and Inventory ........................................................................................          6
        5.      402d Aircraft Maintenance Group Operations Control Center (MOC) .................                                          6
        6.      402d Aircraft Maintenance Group CDDAR Team Chief ......................................                                    7
        7.      78 ABW through the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and the Incident
                Commander (IC) ....................................................................................................        9
        8.      Robins Command Post (CP) ..................................................................................               10
        9.      CDDAR Recovery Team Qualifications ...............................................................                        10
        10.     Training Requirements ..........................................................................................          10
        11.     Robins AFB Mission Partners ...............................................................................               11
        12.     Transient Aircraft ...................................................................................................    11

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            13

Attachment 2—MINIMAL CDDAR TEAM POSITIONS AND DUTIES                                                                                      15

Attachment 3—MINIMUM CDDAR VEHICLE/SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
             REQUIREMENTS                                                                                                                 16

Attachment 4—CHECKLIST - CRANE OPERATOR REPRESENTATIVE                                                                                    17


1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. General. The Crashed, Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) program
     applies to all host and mission partner flying organizations. It will also be used to recover
     transient aircraft if within the capability of the CDDAR Team. It is designed to recover
     crashed/damaged or disabled aircraft in a minimum time period and return the airfield to
     operational status consistent with the following consideration(s):
        1.1.1. Open runway for operational use.
        1.1.2. Prevent secondary damage to the aircraft.
        1.1.3. Preserve evidence for mishap or accident investigations.
ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                   3


     1.1.4. Mitigate the mishap’s impact on the owning organization’s flying mission
     requirements.
     1.1.5. Input from the flying organizations on their mission requirements must be
     considered.
  1.2. Support for CDDAR outside duty hours.
     1.2.1. Immediate response by the CDDAR Team and required mission partner
     organizations is required during normal operating periods or duty hours. All units will
     develop emergency recall or mobilization rosters to identify and notify required recovery
     team members outside normal operating hours. Units must also account for team
     members being deployed, TDY and on leave.
  1.3. The 78 Air Base Wing Commander (78 ABW/CC) or designated representative, with
  the advice and assistance of the Airfield Manager (78 OSS/OSA), notifies the Emergency
  Operations Center (EOC) and determines the removal conditions which are designated as:
     1.3.1. Emergency. This condition requires immediate runway clearance at the risk of
     losing equipment and evidence. The runway must be cleared in 30 minutes or less.
     1.3.2. Urgent. This condition requires runway clearance as soon as possible after
     completion of rescue, firefighting and explosive ordinance disposal (EOD) operations.
     The runway will be cleared in less than 1 hour and 30 minutes, unless EOD
     considerations dictate otherwise, using techniques identified in applicable technical
     publications. The Incident Commander (IC) will make this determination.
     1.3.3. Routine. This condition allows sufficient time to use recovery techniques to
     minimize further damage to aircraft, preserve evidence and precludes exposing personnel
     or equipment to danger.
     1.3.4. During all emergency response situations the IC is the final authority for
     determining when the mishap site is safe, and when the investigating authority and/or
     CDDAR team may approach the mishap site and/or conduct recovery operations.
     1.3.5. The IC will decide which first responder actions may or may not proceed. The IC,
     in consultation with the Airfield Manager, Base Safety Office (78 ABW/SE) and the
     CDDAR Team Chief, will then decide which removal methods are best.
     1.3.6. Robins AFB only has a single runway. If an aircraft crash-lands, it may be
     necessary to clear the aircraft/wreckage as soon as possible to facilitate reactivation of the
     runway. If necessary, this action will be directed by 78 ABW/CC upon the
     recommendation of the Airfield Manager or designated official.
     1.3.7. Typical incident sequence of events
        1.3.7.1. Immediately after the incident, first responders precede IAW with RAFB
        Plan 10-2, Appendix 2 to Annex A. This initiates the Response Phase of the plan.
        1.3.7.2. The IC ensures initial rescue, firefighting, security and safing of the aircraft
        is performed. No one other than first responders can enter the mishap area. The
        mishap scene must be determined safe by the IC prior to any investigation or CDDAR
        actions.
 4                                                       ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014


            1.3.7.3. The incident aircraft and its equipment must not be disturbed or removed
            unless directed or released by the IC, Interim Safety Board (ISB) President or
            Impoundment Official/owning unit representative. Control of the mishap scene/site
            remains with the IC. Once the scene is safe to enter, command of the incident
            aircraft/wreckage is transferred from the IC to the Board President or Impoundment
            Official/owning unit representative appointed by the Investigating Authority.
            1.3.7.4. Under Emergency or Urgent removal conditions, the recovery/investigation
            phase may be waived by the 78 ABW/CC.
            1.3.7.5. While the initial response is in progress, the CDDAR team members should
            prepare and posture the equipment and materials required to recover the aircraft.
            1.3.7.6. The unit owning the aircraft will work through their designated
            representatives to the EOC to advise the IC of any special considerations. When the
            incident site is secure, the owning unit representatives will coordinate actions through
            the EOC to provide assistance or information on special recovery requirements (e.g.
            classified material/equipment).
            1.3.7.7. When first-responder actions are complete, the Response Phase will end and
            the Recovery Phase, which includes investigation actions, will begin. The CDDAR
            Team Chief then coordinates recovery actions with appointed investigation officials.
            1.3.7.8. Emergency or urgent removal conditions may bypass the deliberate
            recovery/investigation phase and dictate expedient ad-hoc planning and execution of
            CDDAR duties.
            1.3.7.9. Under routine removal conditions when the investigation actions are
            complete, the Investigation Authority transfers command of the incident
            aircraft/wreckage to the Recovery Operations Chief to have the recovery or salvage
            teams restore, reclaim or dispose of the aircraft. Once incident aircraft/wreckage is
            recovered, command of the aircraft/wreckage is transferred back to the Investigative
            Authority.
2. Host Installation/Mission Partner CDDAR Responsibilities
     2.1. The 78th Operations Support Squadron (78 OSS), is the overall program manager for
     CDDAR on Robins AFB; however execution of the program is delegated to the 402d Aircraft
     Maintenance Group (AMXG). The 402 AMXG, 116 ACW, 461 ACW, and HMLA-773 are
     responsible for program support to include aircraft recovery operations, qualification and
     training of assigned recovery team members and inspection of and maintenance of assigned
     equipment used for this operation.
     2.2. The host Wing, 78 ABW, in collaboration with 402 AMXG, has overall responsibility
     for recovery of host, mission partner, or transient crashed or disabled aircraft on or off
     Robins AFB. Since mission partners are responsible for the condition/repair of assigned
     aircraft, mission partners must be actively involved in assisting the host wing in recovery
     operations during real world responses. Technical expertise, technical data, mission design
     series (MDS) unique tools/special equipment, expert manpower and airframe/system
     familiarization are all valuable contributions tenant units make to the host CDDAR program.
ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                   5


   2.3. CDDAR will be accomplished using a Team Robins approach. 402 AMXG/CC shall
   appoint personnel from the 402 AMXG/MXA as the overall CDDAR Team Chief(s). Team
   members executing CDDAR capability will consist of individuals from 402 AMXG and all
   Robins mission partner flying units. Team members from the unit owning or possessing the
   aircraft will be represented during aircraft recovery. If the team or owning unit requires
   assistance, qualified members from other mission partners can be requested. Equipment,
   vehicles, personal protective equipment (PPE) and any other CDDAR requirements needed
   to recover Robins assigned aircraft will be identified by each mission partner flying unit to
   the CDDAR Team Chief. The CDDAR Team Chief will best maximize sharing of resources
   and specifically identify to each mission partner which resources they will be responsible for
   maintaining.
   2.4. Host units provide recovery support for all mission partners as established in support
   agreements (SA). CDDAR procedures will be coordinated with aircraft maintenance (402
   AMXG), Fire Department (778 CES/CEXF), Safety (78 ABW/SE), Civil Engineer (78
   CEG), Emergency Management (778 CES/CEXM), Explosive Ordinance Disposal (116
   CES/CED)*, Security Forces (78 SFS), Bioenvironmental (78 AMDS/SGPB), Airfield
   Manager (78 OSS/OSA), Logistics Readiness Squadron (78 LRS), Operational Contracting
   (AFSC/PZIO-R) and other on/off-base agencies as applicable. (NOTE: 778 CES/CEXF can
   only perform emergency ground safing of most ejection systems. Egress technicians must be
   consulted to conduct render safe procedures to ensure area is safe for investigation and
   recovery operations. If weapons are on board the aircraft, support will need to be called in
   IAW RAFB Plan 10-2.)
   2.5. Host units must ensure they are capable of providing and supporting recovery operations
   for all base assigned aircraft, to include tenant aircraft. Tenant units are required to provide
   team personnel, participate in host training exercises and maintain specialized equipment
   inventories.
   2.6. Tenant units must coordinate with the host for CDDAR recovery support, training,
   exercises and equipment inventories.
   2.7. Host and tenant commanders are responsible for ensuring sufficient equipment is
   available for mobility/deployed operations, as authorized in the applicable allowance
   standards.
   2.8. 78 ABW Program Manager will ensure the support agreement office (78 LRS/LGRDX)
   includes CDDAR support in the agreements with tenant flying units.
   2.9. 402 AMXG/CC is delegated the authority to approve selections for CDDAR team chief,
   including rank waivers for team chiefs, as well as approve waivers to required training in
   emergency situations.
3. Vehicle/Equipment Requirements
   3.1. The 402 AMXG/CC will make the final determination on unit vehicle/support
   equipment requirements, within the limits provided by allowance standard(s). See
   Attachment 3 for minimum vehicle/support equipment requirements.
   3.2. Vehicle Operations, 78 LRS/LGRDDO, will assist in the movement and locating of
   additional trucks, tractor trailers, etc. up to the limits of the u-drive fleet, to transport
 6                                                       ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014


     CDDAR support equipment to the mishap site, as well as transport wreckage to the wreckage
     assembly point. 78 LRS/LGRV may institute the Vehicle Priority Recall Roster to provide
     support as needed. 78 LRS/LGRV can establish lease agreements for additional tractors and
     trailers if required.
     3.3. Depending on the nature of the mishap, tenant units may be required to supply
     additional specialized equipment to support the recovery of their aircraft.
     3.4. 78 CEG will provide available heavy equipment (bulldozers, dump trucks, etc.) and
     drivers to support recovery operations. Additionally, 78 CEG will provide hazardous
     materials and spill containment capability beyond the capacity of the CDDAR team.
     3.5. When 402 AMXG cannot support heavy equipment requirements such as additional
     cranes; AFSC/PZIO-R, maintains a contingency vendor listing of contractors to provide
     cranes and other equipment for emergency operations. These are established with local
     suppliers in accordance with lease procedures established in AFI 24-302, 4.29. Leases must
     be coordinated through 78 LRS/LGRVM prior to submission to contracting. AFSC/PZIO-R
     representative to the EOC will be contacted to implement these leases IAW Federal
     Acquisition Regulation procedures.
4. Inspection and Inventory
     4.1. 402 AMXG will inspect all recovery equipment to include air bags, manifolds, jacks,
     slings, shoring, etc., for serviceability before and after each incident/exercise use. Periodic
     equipment inspections must be accomplished per intervals established in technical orders or
     as a minimum annually. Perform operational checks according to applicable directives
     during exercise and/or inventory reviews. Document inspections and maintenance on AFTO
     Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record, or on MAJCOM approved form.
     4.2. Mission partner organizations may record inventory documentation according to their
     own procedures.
5. 402d Aircraft Maintenance Group Operations Control Center (MOC)
     5.1. Initiate Major Accident/Incident checklist and notify the 402 AMXG/CC and CDDAR
     Team Chief of an incident upon notification by the Robins Command Post (CP).
     5.2. When notified of an aircraft mishap, the MOC will notify the CDDAR Team Chief who,
     in turn, will notify applicable CDDAR qualified personnel (Attachment 2). Notification will
     include the type of aircraft, location, amount of fuel and or explosives on board and known
     extent of the aircraft damage.
     5.3. For WR-ALC aircraft, ensure all aircraft records are secured by the respective
     maintenance squadrons. All other aircraft records will be obtained IAW RAFB Plan 91-1.
     5.4. If mishap occurred after aircraft refueling at Robins AFB at or in Programmed Depot
     Maintenance Scheduling System (PDMSS) at Robins AFB, contact the Fuels Flight
     Management (78 LRS/LGRF) to impound any fuel trucks used during ground refueling
     operations.
     5.5. Request 78 LRS/LGRF de-fuel equipment be placed in standby status for possible uses
     in recovery operations (i.e., aircraft nose gear collapse).
     5.6. Notify WR-ALC/QPC, Quality Assurance, of the incident.
ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                  7


   5.7. Support CDDAR Team as requested by CDDAR Team Chief.
6. 402d Aircraft Maintenance Group CDDAR Team Chief
   6.1. Be a Senior NCO or civilian equivalent. 402 AMXG/CC may waive the grade
   requirement. This qualification will be tracked on the Special Certification Roster (SCR).
   6.2. Execute and maintain CDDAR requirements and be the OPR for unit CDDAR
   instructions, as applicable. NOTE: Aircraft recovery efforts may require AFSC specific
   personnel to accomplish special tasks such as identifying and handling of classified
   equipment, life support, egress systems, etc. Team Chief will develop a specific action plan
   for the incident using CDDAR Planning Checklists in T.O. 00-80C-1, Tables A-3 through A-
   8.
   6.3. Develop, in conjunction with the Maintenance Training Flight (MTF), or Field Training
   Detachment if MTF is not available, course control documents for CDDAR training.
   6.4. Review support agreements, RAFB Plan 10-2, IEMP, and RAFB Plan 91-1, Aircraft
   Mishap Plan, annually. Provide inputs to 78 OSS for changes as required.
   6.5. Ensure CDDAR procedures are coordinated with the Fire Department, Safety, CE
   Readiness and Emergency Management Office, EOD, Security Forces, Bioenvironmental
   Engineering, Airfield Manager, and on/off-base agencies (as required) IAW AFMAN 10-
   2504 and AFMAN 32-4004.
   6.6. Inform 402 AMXG/CC, 78 ABW/CC and the 78 OSS CDDAR Program Manager in
   writing of equipment shortages/serviceability that preclude effective CDDAR support.
   6.7. Ensure sufficient personnel/teams are trained and equipment is available to support
   CDDAR operations. This includes:
      6.7.1. Basic equipment operation (e.g. light carts, air bag blowers, generators, etc.).
      6.7.2. Familiarization and training on any unique characteristics/hazards/materials for
      aircraft (i.e. F-16 EPU hydrazine, C-130 ballast depleted uranium, aircraft composite
      materials, etc.) and document training.
      6.7.3. Availability and proper use of personnel protective equipment (PPE) as
      determined by technical data and Base Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE).
   6.8. Ensure special qualifications for personnel are identified and documented. Identify
   individual team member qualifications for specific equipment operations (e.g., towing,
   jacking, support equipment, special purpose vehicle, respiratory protection, etc.). (See
   Attachment 2) Mission Partner units will provide their team roster and CDDAR team
   qualifications to the CDDAR Team Chief.
   6.9. Ensure adequate tools and support equipment for recovery (i.e. air bags, slings,
   manifolds, tow bars, shoring, etc.) are serviceable and available. Maintain a list of the
   minimum CDDAR requirement for CDDAR support equipment and vehicles. (See
   Attachment 3)
   6.10. Conduct/participate in annual training and exercises. Coordinate exercises with the 78
   ABW Inspector General office (78 ABW/IG).
8                                                     ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014


       6.10.1. Annually demonstrate team’s capability to recover assigned crashed/damaged
       aircraft.
       6.10.2. CDDAR exercises must be coordinated with applicable base agencies.
       6.10.3. CDDAR exercises will consist of lifting device positioning, sling hookup, and
       simulating hoisting or lifting. Accomplish hoisting or lifting IAW applicable aircraft
       T.O. During hoisting or lifting exercises, observe surface wind limitations. NOTE: When
       using a crash crane, the CDDAR team will accomplish removal procedures up through
       attaching the lifting sling to aircraft and applying tension to cables. When ground
       instructional trainer aircraft (GITA) or aircraft battle damage repair (ABDR) aircraft is
       used, the aircraft may be lifted.
    6.11. Coordinate with unit Weight and Balance manager when weight and center of gravity
    (CG) conditions are unknown.
    6.12. Coordinate recovery actions with the appropriate contractor(s) and weapons system
    expert(s) as needed.
    6.13. Carry out custodial and storage responsibilities for special purpose equipment
    specifically assigned to the crash recovery mission. (See Attachment 3)
    6.14. Maintain recall rosters. During off duty hours when notified of a CDDAR event,
    coordinate with the MOC for the status of the CDDAR Team.
    6.15. Recall and ensure the CDDAR team is assembled at a pre-designated location and
    available to respond to the recovery site when directed by the IC. Additionally, establish a
    work schedule for CDDAR personnel.
    6.16. Ensure CDDAR trailer and equipment is assembled for rapid response to crash site
    upon request of IC. Transportation of the CDDAR crash recovery trailer and equipment in
    support of an off-base mishap operation will be made available upon the authorization of the
    IC.
    6.17. Ensure complete safety briefings are given, detailing hazards to personnel and
    equipment and ensure proper PPE is available and properly used.
    6.18. Notify the MOC who, in turn, will report and provide the IC with the number of
    qualified CDDAR personnel and status of available equipment.
    6.19. If required, ensure a tow vehicle with tow bar, tow vehicle operator and tow team are
    available during recovery operations. Tow team will take directions from the CDDAR Team
    Chief or the IC. The tow team will remain available to the CDDAR team for any assistance
    necessary to aid in aircraft recovery operation.
    6.20. Request additional expertise or equipment through the MOC. If the items or personnel
    are not under the jurisdiction of 402 AMXG, they will be requested through the IC.
    6.21. Be responsible for directing and coordinating CDDAR operations as directed by the IC
    or the CDDAR Team Chief.
    6.22. For longer term recovery operations, the Team Chief can request a portable toilet be
    placed near the incident site through 78 CEG, Customer Service Desk, 468-5657. This must
    be approved by Airfield Management Operations, 78 OSS/OSAB, 468-2114/2115, and the
ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                 9


  Team Chief will need to arrange to escort the delivery vehicle while on the airfield.
  CAUTION: The crash site will only be disturbed to the extent necessary to eliminate a
  situation that is detrimental to the aircraft, support equipment or personnel. The area will be
  maintained in an undisturbed state until the aircraft is released to the Safety Investigation
  Board (SIB) President by the IC or appropriate authority. Once the SIB has determined the
  aircraft can be moved, the aircraft will be turned over to maintenance by the SIB President.
  Once recovery actions begin, ONLY personnel designated by the CDDAR Team Chief will
  enter the recovery area. NOTE: There are two distinct phases of an aircraft mishap—
  response and recovery. First responders face the probability of an aircraft fire. As the
  composite material burns, gases, vapors and solid particles are released into the smoke
  plume. Recovery team members may be exposed to fibers and inhalable dusts as aircraft
  parts are moved, modified by cutting, breaking, twisting, or hammering. Personnel tasked to
  participate in a crash or post-crash response, recovery, maintenance and/or clean-up
  operations must be aware of/briefed on all possible health issues involved. Units must ensure
  local policies and procedures for handling crash damaged composites are addressed to
  include training and personnel protective equipment.
7. 78 ABW through the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and the Incident
Commander (IC)
  7.1. Ensure all emergency response actions are completed and it is safe to approach the
  aircraft before directing the 402 AMXG CDDAR Team chief to begin recovery operations.
  7.2. Provide incident site security and maintain the site cordon as long as necessary as
  directed by the IC. (78 SFS)
  7.3. Provide vehicle and fuel support. (78 LRS)
     7.3.1. 78 LRS/LGRF will obtain required fuel samples IAW RAFB Plan 91-1.
  7.4. Direct all personnel to stay clear of the recovery site unless requested by the Incident
  Commander (IC).
  7.5. The IC may establish a staging area to hold equipment until required at the site. The
  maintenance representative on site will ensure CDDAR teams and all additional maintenance
  response personnel are briefed on staging area procedures and site safety requirements.
  7.6. Provide contracting support to obtain any required equipment and supplies not available
  on base. AFSC/PZIO-R maintains an Emergency Management Contingency Kit (kit contains
  binder with contracting & emergency management regulations, contingency vendor listing,
  laptop, maps, admin forms, etc.). The Contingency vendor listing contains names/numbers
  of contractors who have verbally pledged to respond 24-7 if called. The AFSC/PZIO-R
  representative to the EOC will let a contract with the vendor for the required material when
  notified by the CDDAR team.
  7.7. Provide relief facilities (portable toilet) to the incident site as needed. These will be
  requested through the 78 ABW/CE Customer Service Desk, 468-5657. Movement to the site
  must be coordinated with 78 OSS, if located on the airfield.
  7.8. Ensure requirements of RAFB Plan 91-1, Aircraft Mishap Response Plan, are
  accomplished. (78 ABW/SE)
 10                                                    ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014


      7.8.1. 78 ABW/SE will notify base where aircraft was last fueled to obtain required fuel
      samples.
8. Robins Command Post (CP)
   8.1. Submit all required incident reports to the AFMC Command Center and higher
   headquarters IAW AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting. Note: Mission Partner command
   posts will be required to submit reports to their respective command centers as required.
9. CDDAR Recovery Team Qualifications
   9.1. All team members must be qualified in basic CDDAR operations IAW AFI 21-101.
   9.2. All qualifications for civilian team members will be recorded in Production Acceptance
   Certification (PAC). Qualifications for military team members will be recorded in their
   organization’s appropriate training records.
10. Training Requirements
   10.1. All team members must be trained in recovery procedures IAW AFI 21-101, MDS
   specific technical data, other applicable Air Force and MAJCOM directives and unit-
   developed training guide.
   10.2. All recovery team members must receive initial training comprised of both academic
   and hands on training/exercises which should include actual lifting of an aircraft. Aircraft
   lifting exercises may be accomplished by using owned aircraft, utilizing training hulks or
   participating with other organizations possessing training assets. Ensure all training is
   documented in the appropriate system for civilians and military members.
   10.3. All recovery team members must receive annual training following initial training
   comprised of both academic and hands on training/exercises. Ensure all training is
   documented in the appropriate system for civilians and military members. NOTE: According
   to AFI 21-101 all initial training must be hands-on, and although the AFI states that training
   should include lifting a unit possessed aircraft, it is recommend all new team members attend
   an AETC formal training course. Although 402 AMXG aircraft are “depot possessed,” they
   are not "unit" possessed. 402 AMXG will not accept the risk of lifting “depot possessed”
   aircraft. Also, if 402 AMXG personnel attempt actual lifts on aircraft, this would require
   scheduling depot aircraft for this training and impact production. Follow on (refresher)
   training can be accomplished organically at the unit's discretion. If possible, all team
   members may be able to train on one of the mission partner’s aircraft when that unit
   accomplishes their training.
   10.4. Environmental, Safety, and Health Hazards: The key for developing a safe and
   effective CDDAR program is communication and coordination. The CDDAR Team Chief
   must ensure BEE is consulted and directly involved in determining personnel health hazards,
   training required and appropriate levels of PPE.
   10.5. 78 ABW/IG will assist the host wing, 402 AMXG Training Office and unit training
   offices in scheduling and managing training exercises for CDDAR recovery personnel. This
   can be done in conjunction with a scheduled MARE or as a separate training event.
   10.6. 78 MDG Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight will provide comprehensive just-in-
   time training for emergency and first responders, as well as CDDAR Team members to
ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                 11


   include the potential health hazards tenant with the downed aircraft and the appropriate
   protective measures to be utilized during response or recovery operations. This may also be
   required for non-assigned aircraft mishaps that Robins AFB responds to.
11. Robins AFB Mission Partners
   11.1. Assign unit personnel to support CDDAR duties, and provide roster to CDDAR Team
   Chief. Mission partner units will be prepared to perform assigned maintenance duties and
   assist and provide expertise in CDDAR situations to the CDDAR Team Chief for the
   recovery effort.
   11.2. Determine type and quantity of specialized CDDAR tools, equipment and personnel
   required to recover their organization’s aircraft. Mission partner units will procure and
   maintain specialized equipment to support recovery of their aircraft. Mission Partner units
   will establish an inventory listing and coordinate with 78 LRS to ensure accountable items
   are listed on organizational equipment accounts. Changes in required resources will be
   identified to the CDDAR Team Chief within 60 days.
      11.2.1. Mission partner units will coordinate their specialized equipment requirements
      with other flying units and the CDDAR Team Chief to avoid duplication of inventories.
      11.2.2. If the CDDAR Team Chief needs a piece of specialized equipment possessed by
      any mission partner unit to recover an aircraft, the Team Chief will direct the possessing
      unit to provide the needed equipment for the recovery operation.
   11.3. All units assigned to Robins AFB should be prepared to provide support augmentees to
   the CDDAR Team Chief as needed (consider personnel from all AFSCs for unique aircraft
   requirements, (e.g. classified handling). If necessary, just-in-time training may be conducted.
   11.4. Inspect and maintain assigned CDDAR resources. Notify CDDAR Team Chief in
   writing if any of their assigned equipment/resources are out of service.
   11.5. Initiate their organization’s crash recovery checklist in the event of a mishap.
   11.6. Take part in all training required by CDDAR Team Chief.
   11.7. Submit all required reports to their organization’s higher headquarters in the event of a
   mishap.
   11.8. Provide the EOC, 402 AMXG MOC and the CDDAR Team Chief with points of
   contact for recall of their organization’s CDDAR support team. When appointing new
   personnel, mission partner organizations should notify the CDDAR Team Chief within 24
   hours of any change in key personnel. The CDDAR Team Chief will maintain copies of all
   organization’s support team rosters which will include the team member’s CDDAR
   qualifications. These rosters will be reviewed and updated at least annually.
12. Transient Aircraft
   12.1. Transient Alert (78 OSS) will respond to the IC as requested to provide initial
   assistance for the aircraft involved.
   12.2. The CDDAR Team will recover transient aircraft if possible. If the expertise and
   equipment required to perform CDDAR operations are beyond 78 OSS capabilities, the
   aircraft’s home station will have to provide support. In some cases the 402 AMXG CDDAR
12                                                 ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014


  Team Chief or the IC may request assistance from mission partner units for the recovery of
  transient aircraft. In some cases the CDDAR Team Chief may be able to request support by
  the 402 AMXG or another installation’s Expeditionary Maintenance (EDMX) team if
  available.
  12.3. If weapons are on board the aircraft, an EOD team will need to be requested IAW
  RAFB Plan 10-2.




                                         CHRISTOPHER D. HILL, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014                                                            13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFMC Supplement to AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 1 April
2014
AFI 21-103, Equipment Inventory, Status, and Utilization Reporting, 26 January 2012
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
AFMAN 10-2504, Air Force Incident Management for Major Accidents and Natural Disasters,
13 March 2013
TO 00-105E-9, Aircraft Emergency Rescue Information, Revision 15, 31March 2011
Robins AFB Plan 10-2, Installation Emergency Management Plan (IEMP), 18 February 2014
Robins AFB Plan 91-1, Aircraft Mishap Response Plan, 1 November 2011
Prescribed Forms
AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
Adopted Form
AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABDR—Aircraft Battle Damage Repair
ABW—Air Base Wing
AFB—Air Force Base
AMXG—Aircraft Maintenance Group
BEE—Base Bioenvironmental Engineering
CDDAR—Crashed, Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Repair
CE—Civil Engineering
CG—Center of Gravity
CP—Command Post (552 ACW/CP)
EDMX—Expeditionary Maintenance Team
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
EOD—Explosive Ordinance Disposal
 14                                           ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014


GITA—Ground Instructional Training Aircraft
HAZMAT—Hazardous Materials
IC—Incident Commander
IEMP—Installation Emergency Management Plan
ISB—Interim Safety Board
MTF—Maintenance Training Flight
MDS—Mission Design Series
MIS—Maintenance Information System
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
PAC—Production Acceptance Certification
PPE—Personnel Protective Equipment
ROC—Recovery Operations Chief
SA—Support Agreements
SCR—Special Certification Roster
SIB—Safety Investigation Board
TA—Transient Alert
TO—Technical Order
USAF—United States Air Force
ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                   15


                                         Attachment 2
                  MINIMAL CDDAR TEAM POSITIONS AND DUTIES

A2.1. CDDAR Team Chief (1 each).
   A2.1.1. Coordinate, lead, direct crash recovery operation, including placement of equipment.
   A2.1.2. Brief safety and scenario situation/concerns.
   A2.1.3. Assist agency officials in recovery method determination.
   A2.1.4. Assemble information from Bio-environmental Engineering and Fire Department
   officials on site hazards and brief team members.
A2.2. Inflation Bag Control Console Operator (varies based on number of consoles in
operation).
   A2.2.1. Inspect, monitor and operate control console before and during lifting operation.
   A2.2.2. Direct hose to inflation bag connections during inflation and deflation operations.
   A2.2.3. Assist in equipment placement, removal and area cleanup.
   A2.2.4. Spreader beam guide line operator during crane lift.
A2.3. Observer (1 each).
   A2.3.1. Monitor aircraft height/plumb bob during lifting and report back to the CRTC and/or
   console operator.
   A2.3.2. Assist in equipment placement, removal and area cleanup.
A2.4. Equipment Custodian (1 each).
   A2.4.1. Monitor, control and issue all dispatched crash recovery equipment.
   A2.4.2. Clean, inventory and account for issued equipment/material.
   A2.4.3. Assist team as needed.
A2.5. Equipment Handlers (2 each).
   A2.5.1. Assist in dunnage/cribbing/jack placement.
   A2.5.2. During bag lift, monitor bag/jack progress.
   A2.5.3. Assist in equipment placement, removal and area cleanup.
A2.6. Crane operator (1 each).
   A2.6.1. Coordinate with team chief for the placement of crane and rigging method for
   recovery operation.
   A2.6.2. Operate crane during all phases of aircraft lift and movement.
 16                                                   ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014


                                        Attachment 3
      MINIMUM CDDAR VEHICLE/SUPPORT EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS

Table A3.1. Minimum CDDAR Vehicle/Support Equipment Requirements

                    Item                                     Quantity
             Air bags (26 Ton)                                  20
             Air bags (15 Ton)                                  20
               Air bag hoses                                   120
                Air bag pads                                    29
            Pneumatic manifold                                   7
              Shackle (8 ton)                                    8
              Shackle (12 ton)                                   2
             Shackle (20.5 ton)                                  3
              Shackle (55 ton)                                   2
          TIRFOR ground plates                                  27
          TIRFOR ground spikes                                 108
         TIRFOR mooring devices                                  6
              TIRFOR handle                                      6
         TIRFOR cable on wheels                                  3
         TIRFOR cable w/o wheels                                 4
         TIRFOR tethering cables                                 4
            Snatch cable/straps                                  2
     Chain binders/AC tiedown chains                            10
             Cargo straps (5K)                                   8
                Slings (50 ft)                                   2
                Slings (48 ft)                                   1
                Slings (33 ft)                                   2
                Slings (20 ft)                                   2
              Slings (15-20 ft)                                  4
            MC-7 or equivalent                                As req'd
                  Dunnage                                      240
                15K forklift                                     1
           Tow vehicle, aircraft                                 1
                  40' trailer                                    1
Note 1. These are minimum requirements and should not be assumed all-encompassing.
MDS-specific equipment may also be required.
Assumption 1. Additional time may be required to obtain necessary equipment that is not
listed.
Assumption 2. Common equipment (e.g. aircraft jacks, tow bars, -86 generators, light carts,
heaters) is not listed but may be required depending on the conditions of the crash site.
Assumption 3. This list does not include ancillary equipment or supplies that may be
required during a crash recovery (e.g. hand tools, PPE, consumables).
ROBINSAFBI21-115 7 AUGUST 2014                                                                 17


                                         Attachment 4
                CHECKLIST - CRANE OPERATOR REPRESENTATIVE

Table A4.1. Checklist - Crane Operator Representative
1. Equipment Readiness:

a. Ensure all vehicles and equipment are fueled.

b. Conduct vehicle/equipment, operator maintenance inspection for serviceability.

c. Ensure all slings and shackles are loaded and secured properly for overland movement.

d. Ensure Lift Bags are loaded and secured for overland movement.

e. Ensure Crash Blowers are loaded and secured for overland movement.

2. Technical Data:

a. Respective Weapons system will have and furnish all TO references.

b. CDDAR Team will supply appropriate TO’s pertaining to equipment required by team.

c. TOs for CDDAR Team are kept in eTools.

d. TOs will be signed out by the CDDAR Team Chief, or delegated to another CDDAR Team
member.

3. On-Base Accident—Immediate Actions:

a. Assemble at a pre-designated location. Report to the accident scene when requested by the
Incident Commander.

b. Provide the Incident Commander with equipment listing and capabilities.

c. Take part in Recovery planning meetings.

d. Notify equipment operators of recovery plan.

e. Shift equipment operators work schedules to accommodate recovery plan time limit.
