BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
OF ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                     36-2806

                                                                             20 JANUARY 2011

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                         LOCAL AND STATE AIR FORCE
                                                 ASSOCIATION (AFA) AWARDS PROGRAM
                                                    CARL VINSON MEMORIAL CHAPTER

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: WR-ALC/DPLA                                                      Certified by: WR-ALC/DP
Supersedes: RAFBI36-2806, December                                               (Max R. Wyche)
            2004                                                                       Pages: 11


This instruction aligns with AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, and implements
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies
and Awards. It establishes local and state awards sponsored by the Carl Vinson Memorial
Chapter, and gives eligibility, nomination, and selection procedures for these awards. It requires
collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to
collect and maintain the data prescribed in this instruction is 10 U.S.C. 8013. This instruction
applies to all active duty military and civilian personnel assigned to Robins Air Force Base
(RAFB), Georgia, for local and state competition. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary
of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision changes
the manner in which quarterly and annual awards are formatted, making them in line with the
Robins AFB awards, and allowing commanders or directors to use the same package for both
Robins AFB awards and AFA awards. This instruction clarifies the annual award nomination
 2                                                  ROBINSAFBI36-2806 20 JANUARY 2011


process, standardizes the format for the various annual award categories, and clarifies the annual
award presentation. This instruction also splits the military quarterly award into officer and
enlisted categories and splits the civilian quarterly award into category 1 and category 2.
1. POLICY. The AFA, Carl Vinson Memorial Chapter sponsors this awards program. The
Directorate of Personnel (WR-ALC/DP) administers the program. The purpose of this program is
to provide supervisors a tool to recognize outstanding performers.
2. QUARTERLY AWARDS. Each quarter of the calendar year, the Carl Vinson Memorial
Chapter of the Air Force Association recognizes two outstanding military members, one enlisted
and one officer, from Robins AFB for their achievements. The chapter also recognizes two
outstanding civilian members, one category 1 and one category 2, from Robins AFB for their
achievements. Quarterly awards are due to WR-ALC/DPLA within 25 days after the end of each
quarter.
     2.1. NOMINATION PROCEDURES. Submit nomination on an AF Form 1206
     (Attachments 2 and 3). Only use the front side of the form. Bullets should be used to outline
     the individual’s duty performance and other achievements and include only accomplishments
     for that quarter. Unless otherwise designated, all civilian and military personnel
     (active/guard/reserve) assigned to Robins AFB are eligible for these awards.
     2.2. SELECTION PROCEDURES. WR-ALC/DPLA will forward all nominations to the
     AFA Vice President, Awards, for selection. The AFA Awards Committee will review the
     award nominees and submit their rankings to the chapter AFA Vice President, Awards.
     He/she will compile all of the rankings and recommend selection to the chapter AFA
     President. Upon approval by the chapter AFA President, the winners will be announced to
     the commanders of the respective winners.
     2.3. PRESENTATION OF AWARDS. The Carl Vinson Chapter President will coordinate
     with the appropriate commander or director to present the quarterly awards to the award
     winners at an event deemed appropriate by the unit commander or director. The AFA Vice
     President, Public Relations, will publicize award winners. The local AFA chapter will need
     the winning person’s name, rank, mailing address, date of birth, phone number and email to
     assist in the processing of an AFA membership.
3. ANNUAL AWARDS. At the end of each calendar year, the Carl Vinson Memorial Chapter
of the Air Force Association recognizes outstanding military and civilian members from Robins
AFB and the local community in a variety of categories. All annual award nominations are due
by the first business day in February. All award packages must be submitted to WR-
ALC/DPLA, with the exception of the Major General Thomas H. Chapman Outstanding Senior
Logistics Officer of the Year, which will be submitted by Group Commanders/Directors to the
WR-ALC Vice Commander by the first business day in February.
     3.1. NOMINATION PROCEDURES. Unless otherwise noted in the description of each
     award, submit nomination on an AF Form 1206. Bullets should outline the individual’s duty
     performance and other achievements and is limited to the front side of the AF Form 1206.
     Include only accomplishments for that calendar year. Use bullet format when writing the
     supporting points. Eligibility criteria are listed with each award description. Unless
     otherwise specified, all military and civilian personnel assigned to Robins AFB are eligible
     for each award, as long as they meet the categories listed with each award.
ROBINSAFBI36-2806 20 JANUARY 2011                                                            3


     3.1.1. Specialist/Technician of the Year Award. This includes personnel assigned to the
     base excluding those individuals in career series of wage grade, personnel, administrative
     and engineering.
     3.1.2. Maintenance Manager/Supervisor of the Year Award. This award recognizes full-
     time supervisors/managers in any area overseeing maintenance of aircraft, part-repairs or
     fabrication.
     3.1.3. Acquisition Manager/Supervisor of the Year Award. This award recognizes full-
     time supervisors/managers in any area involving the management of procurement actions
     or the quality assurance of contracts.
     3.1.4. Weapon Systems Manager of the Year Award. This award recognizes outstanding
     contributions in support of program managers, item managers, or equipment specialist.
     3.1.5. Support Manager/Supervisor of the Year Award. This award recognizes
     supervisors and managers, civilian or military, who provide base support in the areas,
     such as, security forces, personnel, communications, logistics, finance and budget,
     chaplain services, and contracting.
     3.1.6. Outstanding Mission Support of the Year Award. This award recognizes those
     individuals in one of the following career areas: communications, civil engineering,
     information management, medical, personnel, recruiting, security, services or weather.
     3.1.7. Trades and Craft Worker of the Year Award. This award recognizes wage grade,
     wage leader, and equivalent military personnel.
     3.1.8. Administrative Support of the Year Award. This award recognizes personnel
     assigned to administrative or clerical support functions.
     3.1.9. Community Relations of the Year Award. This award recognizes military or
     civilian personnel who have contributed significantly to supporting Robins AFB and the
     surrounding community. Describe how the military or civilian member has supported
     Robins AFB and the surrounding community.
     3.1.10. Engineer of the Year Award. This award recognizes personnel in the engineering
     career fields.
     3.1.11. Civil Engineer Manager/Supervisor of the Year Award. This award recognizes
     supervisors and managers of civil engineering activities.
     3.1.12. Human Resources Management Career Field Person of the Year Award. This
     award recognizes (management and non-management) individuals who perform
     personnel support duties.
     3.1.13. Medical Profession Manager/Supervisor of the Year Award. This award
     recognizes supervisors and managers engaged in providing medical support to
     dependants, active duty, and retired personnel.
     3.1.14. Cargo/Tanker Aircraft Technician of the Year Award. This award recognizes the
     outstanding performance and achievement by Georgia-based cargo/tanker aircraft
     maintenance technician of the Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, or active duty Air
     Force.
4                                              ROBINSAFBI36-2806 20 JANUARY 2011


    3.1.15. Cargo/Tanker Aviator of the Year Award. This award recognizes the outstanding
    performance and achievement by Georgia-based cargo/tanker aviator of the Air National
    Guard, Air Force Reserve, or active duty Air Force.
    3.1.16. Fighter/Bomber Aircraft Technician of the Year Award. This award recognizes
    the outstanding performance and achievement by Georgia-based fighter/bomber aircraft
    maintenance technician of the Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, or active duty Air
    Force.
    3.1.17. Fighter/Bomber Aviator of the Year Award. This award recognizes the
    outstanding performance and achievement by Georgia-based fighter/bomber aviator of
    the Air National Guard, Air Force Reserves, or active duty Air Force.
    3.1.18. Reconnaissance/Rescue/Trainer Aircraft Technician of the Year Award. This
    award recognizes the outstanding performance and achievement by Georgia-based
    Reconnaissance/Rescue/Trainer aircraft maintenance technician of the Air National
    Guard, Air Force Reserve, or active duty Air Force.
    3.1.19. Reconnaissance/Rescue/Trainer Aviator of the Year Award. This award
    recognizes the outstanding performance and achievement by Georgia-based
    Reconnaissance/Rescue/Trainer aviator of the Air National Guard, Air Force Reserve, or
    active duty Air Force.
    3.1.20. Support Contractor of the Year Award. This award recognizes outstanding
    support of Air Force organizations from an individual working for an Air Force support
    contractor.
    3.1.21. Logistics Achievement of the Year Award. This award recognizes outstanding
    accomplishments in the field of Air Force Logistics. Personnel who win this local award
    will be submitted for state competition. Guidelines for selection of the nominee include:
       3.1.21.1. Award may be given to either an individual or an organization.
       3.1.21.2. Individuals may be military (active/reserve/guard), federally employed
       civilian, or a community civilian nominated by an Air Force person or organization.
       3.1.21.3. Recipient must have contributed significantly and have well-documented
       accomplishments that detail how they have improved the logistics system through
       savings, efficiencies, or improvements.
       3.1.21.4. No headings are required for this award. Bullets should address significant
       and outstanding improvements to the Air Force logistics system.
    3.1.22. Outstanding JROTC Cadet of the Year Award. This award is to recognize any
    enrolled cadet in any sanctioned Air Force Junior ROTC program. This nomination is
    submitted on plain bond paper in bullet format not to exceed one page; submission
    requirements are listed below.
       3.1.22.1. This individual displays characteristics contributing to leadership and
       indicative of future value in positions of responsibility; positive attitude toward
       training and all areas of school life; pride in personal appearance and wear of the
       uniform; personal initiative, judgment, and self-confidence; courtesy, promptness,
       obedience, and respect for customs; growth potential, capacity for responsibility, high
ROBINSAFBI36-2806 20 JANUARY 2011                                                            5


        productivity, adaptability to change, the highest personal and ethical standards, and
        strong personal convictions; and ranked in the upper 5% of his/her Aerospace
        Education class.
        3.1.22.2. Each school offering Air Force JROTC may nominate one cadet for the
        award.
        3.1.22.3. The nomination package will consist of a cover letter signed by the senior
        Air Force officer of the detachment and no more than one (1) typewritten page
        supporting the nomination.
        3.1.22.4. Each local AFA Chapter may endorse one nomination from each school
        within its geographical area to the State AFA.
     3.1.23. Outstanding ROTC Cadet of the Year Award. This award recognizes
     outstanding Aerospace Studies 300 cadet in any sanctioned Air Force ROTC program for
     the state of Georgia. This nomination is submitted plain bond paper in bullet format not
     to exceed one page; submission requirements are listed below.
        3.1.23.1. This individual displays characteristics contributing to leadership and
        indicative of future value in positions of responsibility; positive attitude toward
        training and all areas of school life; pride in personal appearance and wear of the
        uniform; personal initiative, judgment, and self confidence; courtesy, promptness,
        obedience, and respect for customs; growth potential, capacity for responsibility, high
        productivity, adaptability to change, the highest personal and ethical standards, and
        strong personal convictions; and ranked in the upper 5% of his/her Aerospace Studies
        300 class.
        3.1.23.2. Each college or university offering Air Force ROTC may nominate one
        cadet for the award.
        3.1.23.3. The nomination package will consist of a cover letter signed by the senior
        Air Force officer of the detachment and no more than one (1) typewritten page
        supporting the nomination.
        3.1.23.4. Each local AFA Chapter may endorse one nomination from each school
        within its geographical area to the State AFA.
     3.1.24. Outstanding Civil Air Patrol Cadet of the Year Award. This award recognizes
     any Civil Air Patrol member assigned to a Georgia Civil Air Patrol Unit. This
     nomination is submitted plain bond paper in bullet format not to exceed one page;
     submission requirements are listed below.
        3.1.24.1. This individual displays characteristics contributing to leadership and
        indicative of future value in positions of responsibility; positive attitude toward all
        areas of training; pride in personal appearance and wear of the uniform; personal
        initiative, judgment, and self-confidence; courtesy, promptness, obedience, and
        respect for customs; and growth potential, capacity for responsibility, high
        productivity, adaptability to change, the highest personal and ethical standards, and
        strong personal convictions.
        3.1.24.2. Each Georgia Civil Air Patrol Unit may nominate one cadet.
 6                                                  ROBINSAFBI36-2806 20 JANUARY 2011


            3.1.24.3. The nomination package will consist of a cover letter signed by the
            commander of the nominating unit and no more than one (1) typewritten page
            supporting the nomination. The letter should be addressed to the President, AFA of
            Georgia, with an endorsement by the local AFA Chapter President having geographic
            responsibility for that unit. If there is no AFA chapter close to the unit, then the
            package may be forwarded straight to Georgia AFA.
        3.1.25. Teacher of the Year Award. This award recognizes teachers/instructors who
        incorporate aerospace into their curricular/research activities. Base and community
        teachers and instructors are eligible to apply. This nomination is submitted on plain bond
        paper; submission requirements on this award are listed in attachment 4.
        3.1.26. The Major General Thomas H. Chapman Outstanding Senior Logistics Officer of
        the Year Award.         This award recognizes the senior Sustainment Group/Wing
        Commander/Director (grade of O-6/GS-15 or higher) who exemplifies the highest
        qualities of leadership, standards of professional competence, and moral character. This
        individual sets the standard for senior military officials within the WR-ALC. This
        nomination is not submitted on an AF Form 1206. Nominations are submitted by a peer
        directly to the WR-ALC Vice Commander; nominations are a five-line narrative, single-
        spaced on bond paper.
     3.2. SELECTION PROCEDURES. WR-ALC/DPLA will forward all nominations to the
     AFA Vice President, Awards for selection, with the exception of the Major General Thomas
     H. Chapman Outstanding Senior Logistics Officer of the Year.
        3.2.1. Major General Thomas H. Chapman Outstanding Senior Logistics Officer of the
        Year. The WR-ALC Vice Commander will rank the nominations and forward the results
        to the WR-ALC Commander. The WR-ALC Commander will review and approve the
        ranked nominations, and forward the final selection to the AFA Carl Vinson Chapter
        President for award recognition.
        3.2.2. All Other Annual Awards. The AFA Awards Committee will review the award
        nominees and submit their rankings to the chapter AFA Vice President, Awards. He/she
        will compile all of the rankings and recommend selection to the chapter AFA President.
        Upon approval by the chapter AFA President, the winners will be announced to the
        commanders of the respective winners.
     3.3. PRESENTATION OF AWARDS. The annual award winners will be recognized at an
     AFA hosted function in the spring of the year following the award period. The AFA Vice
     President, Public Relations, will publicize award winners in conjunction with the event.
     3.4. ANNUAL AWARDS ELIGIBLE FOR STATE COMPETITION. These awards
     provide recognition to personnel in specific categories for outstanding accomplishments and
     contributions to the mission over a calendar year period. Personnel selected as the local
     winners will be submitted to State for further competition. These categories are:
Teacher of the Year Award
Reconnaissance/Rescue/Trainer Aircraft Technician of the Year Award
Outstanding Mission Support of the Year Award
Logistics Achievement of the Year Award
ROBINSAFBI36-2806 20 JANUARY 2011                               7


Outstanding JROTC Cadet of the Year Award
Outstanding ROTC Cadet of the Year Award
Outstanding Civil Air Patrol Cadet of the Year Award
Reconnaissance/Rescue/Training Aviator of the Year Award
Fighter/Bomber Aviator of the Year Award
Fighter/Bomber Aircraft Technician of the Year Award
Cargo/Tanker Aircraft Technician of the Year Award
Cargo/Tanker Aviator of the Year Award
4. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   4.1. Prescribed Forms:
No forms prescribed.
   4.2. Adopted Forms:
        AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
        AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award




                                           MARY C. LARRALDE
                                           Personnel Director
 8                                              ROBINSAFBI36-2806 20 JANUARY 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, 15 June 2001
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards, 29 June 2001

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF— Air Force
AFA— Air Force Association
AFB— Air Force Base
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
RAFBI— Robins Air Force Base Instruction
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
ROBINSAFBI36-2806 20 JANUARY 2011                9


                             Attachment 2
                       AF FORM 1206 - MILITARY
10                 ROBINSAFBI36-2806 20 JANUARY 2011


           Attachment 3
     AF FORM 1206 - CIVILIAN
ROBINSAFBI36-2806 20 JANUARY 2011                                                              11


                                            Attachment 4
                                    TEACHER OF THE YEAR

1. Professional resume listing:

   a.   Degrees
   b.   Schools and dates of attendance/graduation
   c.   Continuing Education
   d.   Teaching experience and other employment
   e.   Publications
   f.   Formal research (completed or ongoing)
   g.   Professional honors or awards
   h.   Civic and community service honors and awards

2. Description of research/curricular activities incorporating aerospace education into the
   curriculum/classroom (not to exceed three double-spaced pages).

   a.   If there is a published curriculum guide associated with this, it should be included
   b.   Identify if this is a new program or extension to an existing program
   c.   Identify the number of years the program has been in existence.
   d.   Describe the learning outcomes achieved

3. Include examples/samples of the curriculum materials, such as an outline, sample lesson plan,
selected photos, newspaper articles or student products.

4. Pending selection for this award, his/her jacket size should be provided to the chapter’s
representative.

Optional Items:

1. Description of community outreach and impact of the aerospace education activities if
applicable.

2. Letters of endorsement from community, business leaders, fellow educators or students
(maximum of five).

Note: The judges for this award normally put the most emphasis on creative teaching
approaches and the individual's professional stature.
