BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                         90-203

                                                                             4 NOVEMBER 2010

                                                                             Special Management

                                                                         ENGINEERING STAFF
                                                                          ASSISTANCE VISITS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: WR-ALC/ENS                                                       Certified by: WR-ALC/ENS
                                                                       (Dr. James R. McClelland)
                                                                                        Pages: 8


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-2, Inspector General, The
Inspection System, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-201, Inspector General Activities, Air Force
Material Command Instruction (AFMCI) 90-202, Command Level Inspector General Inspection
Activities, and Robins Air Force Base Instruction (RAFBI) 90-202, Self Inspection Program. It
provides guidance and procedures for establishing, conducting, documenting and reporting unit-
level Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs) for all WR-ALC units. The SAVs enable WR-ALC/EN to
verify organizational compliance to AF policy. These SAVs will not replace the unit’s Self
Inspection Program (SIP) requirements, but are meant to augment the unit’s SIP. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units or the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

1. Purpose. This Robins Air Force Base Instruction (RAFBI) establishes responsibilities and
procedures involved in scheduling and conducting Staff Assistance Visits (SAVs) for the
operations areas of Aircraft Structural Integrity Program (ASIP), Configuration Management
(CM), Deficiency Reporting (DR), Life Cycle and Systems Engineering (LCSE), Nuclear
Certification, Program Protection Plan (PPP), Quality Assurance (QA), Technical Order (TO),
Test and Evaluation (T&E), Aircraft Inspection Program (AIP), Scientific Technical Information
 2                                                    ROBINSAFBI90-203 4 NOVEMBER 2010


(STINFO), and all other applicable areas listed on the Engineering Inspector General (IG) site.
The SAVs enable WR-ALC/EN to verify organizational compliance to AF policy. These SAVs
will not replace the unit’s Self Inspection Program (SIP) requirements, but are meant to augment
the unit’s SIP.
2. Objectives. The Staff Assistance Visit to the organization will:
     2.1. Evaluate a unit’s compliance with all hierarchical requirements including safety
     directives, federal laws, executive order, Department of Defense and Air Force directives or
     instructions, and command policy directives, and initiatives.
     2.2. Provide a mechanism for commanders, directors and chief engineers to assess internal
     operations and to identify and correct deficiencies in a timely manner.
     2.3. Encourage assigned personnel to identify inspection deficiencies to the appropriate
     leadership and effectively mitigate those deficiencies through proper documentation and
     follow-up action.
     2.4. Provide unit leadership oversight of all open, mission critical deficiencies.
     2.5. Provide unit leadership an opportunity to identify and intervene to correct potential
     problem areas before they impact effective, efficient and safe operations.
     2.6. Provide a tool for leaders to train their personnel on core compliance responsibilities
     within organization.
3. Scheduling.
     3.1. SAVs will be scheduled on an annual basis. Area focal points will coordinate with units
     to determine the scope and operations areas to be reviewed during the SAV. A copy of the
     SAV schedule will be provided to the respective lead organization’s Unit Self Inspection
     (USI) Program Offices. A USI focal point for each USI Program Office shall be provided to
     EN by the lead organizations at the time of scheduling.
4. Process.
     4.1. During 1st quarter of calendar year, the EN focal point will contact the Director of
     Engineering (DoE) to schedule SAV for all areas under surveillance. The DoE is responsible
     for coordination with the respective lead organization’s USI focal point.
     4.2. Units to be visited will be aware of the latest versions of applicable checklists.
     Checklists for compliance in various operations areas are normally available on the HQ
     AFMC/IG website (https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/CoP/OpenCoP.asp?Filter=OO-IG-
     MC-03 ). A local EN checklist may be used for any program that does not have an official
     IG checklist. The local checklist will be provided to the lead organization’s USI focal point.
4.3. The EN focal point will coordinate and send out SAV schedule to appropriate person.
     4.4. The unit will provide a completed checklist and contact information to respective focal
     point at least 5 days prior to a scheduled SAV.
        4.4.1. Per RAFBI 90-202, all responses, including not applicable or negative, must have
        detailed explanation. Negative responses shall include a get well plan with an estimated
        completion date (ECD). A root cause analysis (RCA) should be accomplished to prevent
        the deficiency from reoccurring and the corrective action plan should address the root
ROBINSAFBI90-203 4 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                 3


       cause. Additionally, the checklist name, item number, criticality of the finding, name of
       evaluator and action officer must be provided.
   4.5. The unit will secure appropriate meeting location to include a secure area for classified
   discussions, if applicable, and have supporting documentation available in electronic or print
   format during the SAV. A Community of Practice (CoP) site is also acceptable.
   4.6. SAV summaries will be provided to Program Office focal point and DoE within 5
   business days of completion. A quarterly report will also be provided to the DoE if
   deficiencies have been identified.
   4.7. The lead organization’s personnel may request subsequent SAV if area surveyed does
   not completely comply with all checklist items. The lead organization’s personnel will
   coordinate requests with USI focal points prior to SAV.
Note: See SAV process flow chart in Attachment 2.
5. Ratings and Reporting.
   5.1. EN management will provide either briefing of SAV results or letters detailing results to
   respective subordinate organization’s management on a periodic basis, depending on the
   severity of findings.
5.2. For the SAV report, EN will use the report format found in Attachment 3. In some cases,
additional feedback may be added in narrative form.
5.3. EN will maintain a SharePoint site for the SAV results. Access will be granted to the
appropriate users to include USI Program Managers. The SAV will not assign grades and formal
responses to the report are not required.
5.4. The organization will report all findings pursuant to a SAV to the local IG via the self
inspection website at https://info.robins.af.mil/wrsip/intro.aspx.
6. Deployment. Following approval, this RAFBI will be presented to the EN workforce
through informational briefings, to participants in the home office 3-letter staff meetings, and to
any other organization as requested. The informational briefings can be re-administered
periodically as needed. ENS will provide ENR with an electronic copy to be placed on the EN
SharePoint Site.
7. Maintenance. This RAFBI will be reviewed by the OPR annually to ensure the standards
and procedures are still valid and if directives need to be updated or added. The reviewer may
undertake a random survey with known users to check on usefulness of any part of this RAFBI
process. A decision will be made following each review on the need for revision.
 4                                             ROBINSAFBI90-203 4 NOVEMBER 2010


8. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     8.1. Prescribed Forms:
         No forms prescribed.
     8.2. Adopted Forms:
         AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                         JORGE F. GONZALEZ, SES
                                         Director, Engineering and Technical Management
                                         Engineering Directorate
ROBINSAFBI90-203 4 NOVEMBER 2010                                                      5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD90-2, Inspector General, The Inspection System, 26 April 2006
AFI90-201, Inspector General Activities, 22 November 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMCI90-202, Command Level Inspector General Inspection Activities, 1 November 2006
RAFBI90-202, Self Inspection Program, 9 September 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFMCI— Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
AIP— Aircraft Inspection Program
ANG— Air National Guard
ASIP— Aircraft Structural Integrity Program
CM— Configuration Management
CoP— Community of Practice
DoE— Director of Engineering
DR— Deficiency Reporting
IG— Inspector General
LCSE— Life Cycle and Systems Engineering
OI— Operating Instruction
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
PPP— Program Protection Plan
QA— Quality Assurance
RAFBI— Robins Air Force Base Instruction
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
SAV— Staff Assistance Visit
SIP— Self Inspection Program
STINFO— Scientific Technical Information
 6                         ROBINSAFBI90-203 4 NOVEMBER 2010


T&E— Test and Evaluation
TO— Technical Order
ROBINSAFBI90-203 4 NOVEMBER 2010              7


                            Attachment 2
                     SAV PROCESS FLOW CHART
 8                                              ROBINSAFBI90-203 4 NOVEMBER 2010


                                      Attachment 3
                          SAMPLE SAV REPORTING CHART

 If using HQ Checklist add checklist name, item number, criticality, corrective action and
evaluator name.
