BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                   ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                           INSTRUCTION 32-101
                                                                                      29 OCTOBER 2007

                                                                                        Civil Engineering

                                                                                        BASE PARKING



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil (will convert to www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link)
                       for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 78 CES/CECE                                        Certified by: 78 CES/CEC (Mr. Terry Landreth)
Supersedes ROBINSAFBI32-101, 18 July 2007                                                  Pages: 11

This instruction aligns with AFPD 31-2, Law Enforcement, and implements AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor
Vehicle Traffic Supervision. It outlines the policy on management and use of parking spaces for privately
owned vehicles, establishes procedures for assignment of reserved parking spaces, and establishes penal-
ties for parking violations. It applies to all persons operating motor vehicles on Robins Air Force Base.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
A flowchart has been incorporated to detail the process of submitting requests considered over the limits
authorized by this instruction. This instruction allows for G permit, C permit, and D permit parking at the
Fitness Center and Robins AFB Museum of Aviation. This instruction allows for GOV permits to be
issued to POVs so that individuals may park in GOV spaces when performing government assignments.


1. Responsibilities.
   1.1. The 78th Air Base Wing Commander (78 ABW/CC) or designated representative, is the author-
   ity for parking on Robins AFB.
   1.2. The Commander, 78th Security Force Squadron (78 SFS/CC) is responsible for the overall
   enforcement of the Robins AFB parking program.
   1.3. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) is responsible for all designation markings (painting, signs, etc.)
   and maintaining diagrams and accountability of all available base parking.
2                                                            ROBINSAFBI32-101 29 OCTOBER 2007


    1.4. The Traffic Safety Coordination Group (TSCG) is responsible for investigating and resolving
    parking and traffic issues and safety hazards. The 78 ABW/CC or designated representative chairs the
    TSCG and members of the group are appointed as required.
    1.5. A parking warden, rank E-5 and above (or civilian equivalent), will be assigned for each wing
    level organization or higher by the commanders for the WR-ALC, 78 ABW, 330 ASW, 542 CSW,
    402 MXW and major associate units for the purpose of requesting reserved parking. Parking wardens
    may be assigned at the group level at the wing commanders discretion. The parking warden will sup-
    ply their name, grade and organization to the BCE. Parking wardens will coordinate with organiza-
    tional parking monitors to ensure requested reserved parking is within the limits set by this
    instruction, and that requests are made in accordance with this instruction. Parking wardens are the
    only individuals authorized to request reserved parking on Robins AFB. See paragraph 3. for infor-
    mation regarding regulations on reserved parking and the procedure for requesting reserved parking.
    1.6. Each organization will designate a primary and alternate parking monitor, rank E-5 and above (or
    civilian equivalent) to manage the assignment and enforcement of reserved parking under the control
    of their commander. Additional parking monitors may be appointed by the organization and will be
    authorized to enforce unmarked parking spaces and reserved parking spaces that are assigned to their
    organization.
       1.6.1. Each organization will provide the 78 SFS, Police Services Section (78 SFS/SFOSP) and
       their respective building managers with a letter designating those individuals tasked with perform-
       ing duties as a primary and alternate parking monitor. The letter will include the name of the park-
       ing monitors, rank, organization, office symbol, duty phone, date trained and the facility or
       facilities where they perform these duties. The letter must be signed by their commander or civil-
       ian equivalent.
       1.6.2. Monitors will receive initial and annual refresher training from 78 SFS/SFOSP. Their
       appointment letters must be updated annually and provided to 78 SFS/SFOSP.
       1.6.3. Parking monitors will enforce all parking violations occurring within the spaces belonging
       to their organization and their local general visitor and handicap areas. Parking monitors are
       authorized to issue citations for illegally parked vehicles in the following areas: visitor or reserved
       spaces, fire lanes, loading bays, grassed areas, seeded areas, areas not lined for parking, and any
       prohibited area. Citations may be issued for any parking violation found within this instruction.
       1.6.4. Parking monitors are responsible for assigning temporary reserved parking spaces for their
       organization. Temporary reserved parking spaces are to be reserved using base authorized parking
       stanchions and must be removed as soon as they are no longer necessary. See paragraph 3.1.8.
       1.6.5. Parking monitors are not authorized to supply parking stanchions for reserved parking in
       anticipation of a work order request for reserved parking spaces (except for handicap as stated in
       paragraph 3.1.8.3.). Reserved parking spaces are not authorized until the work order has been
       completed.
    1.7. Each primary Building Manager or Directorate Facility Manager is responsible for purchasing
    temporary parking stanchions. See Attachment 1 for purchasing information.

2. General.
    2.1. Definitions. The following definitions apply to this instruction only.
ROBINSAFBI32-101 29 OCTOBER 2007                                                                        3


     2.1.1. Distinguished Visitor (DV). Persons reported by the visiting organization to the WR-ALC
     Protocol Office. This may be a colonel, GS-15 level employee, or non-DOD equivalent or above
     who holds a position of high authority (e.g., wing commander, Major Command division chief, or
     corporate executive) or who may be of interest to the installation’s senior leaders (e.g., inspection
     team).
     2.1.2. Organization. The standard level of the skip-echelon staffing structure used by the Air
     Force which is applicable at this base from center to directorate and division or wing, groups, and
     squadrons, to include their equivalents, but not to a lower level.
     2.1.3. Parking. The act of stopping a vehicle, whether or not occupied, except in compliance with
     a traffic order, traffic signal, or other traffic control device.
  2.2. Parking and Parking Lot Rules.
     2.2.1. Park all vehicles within a designated marked parking space or housing driveway, unless
     exempted by this instruction. Parking vehicles on grass, unmarked areas of concrete and asphalt,
     or areas marked as no parking by striping or by other means is strictly forbidden unless granted by
     the 78 ABW/CC or designated representative. Vehicles may not occupy more than one designated
     parking space.
     2.2.2. Park vehicles in designated parking lots and spaces on a first-come, first-served basis,
     unless exempted by this instruction or specific marking.
     2.2.3. Vehicles parked on the street must park in the same direction as the traffic flow.
     2.2.4. Base housing occupants should park in their driveways or designated parking areas. Resi-
     dents/visitors may park on the street in housing, except where specifically prohibited.
     2.2.5. Vehicles will not hinder the flow of traffic to pick-up or discharge passengers.
     2.2.6. Do not perform vehicle maintenance in parking locations. Minor emergency repairs are
     authorized.
     2.2.7. Recreational activities are prohibited in parking lots.
     2.2.8. Motorcycles are authorized to park in the triangular marked spaces at the ends of parking
     lanes, unless specifically indicated otherwise (lined out). They must park within the boundaries of
     the triangle.
     2.2.9. Recreational Vehicles (RVs) such as trailers, campers, and boats shall not be parked on the
     streets or grassed and seeded areas. RVs may be parked in driveways in housing areas or parking
     lots of dormitories for not more than 48 hours. Recreational vehicles are to be stored at the RV
     storage area by contacting Outdoor Recreation (78 MSG/SVRO) at extension 6-4001.
     2.2.10. Open parking near to or in support of fire and police operations may be designated by
     signs approved by the traffic engineer to restrict the parking to security, fire and emergency per-
     sonnel supporting those operations.
     2.2.11. Use of POVs for official business does not entitle user to disregard parking restrictions
     imposed by this instruction.
  2.3. A review of this instruction will be made periodically in accordance with the requirements of AFI
  33-360, Publications and Forms Management, and the Base Publications and Forms Management
  Office (78 CS/SCX).
4                                                           ROBINSAFBI32-101 29 OCTOBER 2007


3. Reserved Parking.
    3.1. There are eight types of reserved parking spaces authorized on the installation: individual
    reserved (i.e. organizational parking), commander reserved, visitor, government vehicle, handicap,
    special, permit, and temporary. To request reserved parking refer to paragraph 3.2.
       3.1.1. Individual Reserved Parking. One individual reserved parking space is authorized for each
       squadron commander and squadron commander deputy (or civilian equivalent), group com-
       mander and group commander deputy (or civilian equivalent), wing commander and wing com-
       mander deputy (or civilian equivalent), first sergeant, command CMSgt, group superintendent, all
       general officers and respective deputies (or civilian equivalent) and any office requiring an 0-6 or
       GS-15 and above. This includes the WR-ALC commanders and staff, 78 ABW, 330 ASW, 402
       MXW, 542 CSW, and all associate units. Division chiefs, staff officers, and executive officers are
       not permitted reserved parking spaces unless permitted by provisions in this instruction or by spe-
       cial permission from the Installation Commander in accordance with paragraph 3.2.2.
           3.1.1.1. Each organization may be assigned individual reserved parking spaces that are
           marked by organizational symbol, (e.g. 78 CES 01, MXRI 02, ATSG 01) or in special cases,
           the office symbol (e.g. ALC/CC, 78 ABW/CC). Based on the Robins AFB organizational
           structure in 2006, the number of individual reserved parking spaces under the ALC is esti-
           mated at 300. The BCE shall monitor the total number of individual reserve parking spaces
           and ensure the total number of reserved parking spaces (not counting handicap and temporary)
           does not exceed 400 spaces of the total available parking basewide.
           3.1.1.2. Parking wardens will coordinate with the base traffic engineer on the location of all
           individual reserved parking spaces.
       3.1.2. Commander Reserved. Reserved parking that falls under this category is for the WR-ALC/
       CC, 78 ABW/CC, 330 ASW/CC, 402 MXW/CC, 542 CSW/CC, 116 ACW/CC and HQ AFRC/
       CV. These spaces are in addition to those permitted in paragraph 3.1.1.
           3.1.2.1. Permanent reserved parking for these offices located at the officers club, enlisted club
           and fitness center will not be counted against the respective organization as reserved parking.
           3.1.2.2. Permanent reserved parking for these offices, beyond the locations listed in para-
           graph 3.1.2.1. (e.g. bldg 215, 210) will be counted as an individual reserved parking space.
           3.1.2.3. Parking for official visits by these offices to other organizations throughout Robins
           AFB will be treated as temporary reserved parking for a DV. Refer to paragraph 3.1.8. for
           details.
       3.1.3. Visitor Reserved Parking. Each organization with a customer service function may be
       assigned visitor reserved parking spaces that are marked “VISITOR” or, in special cases, with a
       time limit “30 MIN VISITOR” (e.g. 78 CES VISITOR, MXR1 VISITOR, ATSG 30 MIN VISI-
       TOR). If not posted, the time limit for parking in visitor parking spaces is two hours. Visitor park-
       ing spaces are reserved for visitors only between the hours of 0730-1730, Monday-Friday, unless
       otherwise posted. The number of spaces authorized will be considered on a case-by-case basis not
       to exceed five spaces per organization. For additional visitor reserved parking see 3.2.2.
       3.1.4. Government Vehicle Reserved Parking. Each organization may be assigned govern-
       ment-owned vehicle (GOV) reserved parking marked by organizational symbol (e.g. 78 CES
       GOV, MXRI GOV, ATSG GOV). All GOV spaces will be marked as GOV regardless of the vehi-
ROBINSAFBI32-101 29 OCTOBER 2007                                                                        5


     cle type (e.g. golf cart, electric truck, etc.). POV’s may be permitted to be used as a government
     vehicle provided they display an identification tag similar to that required by paragraph 3.2.3.
     Each parking monitor may provide no more than three GOV permits. The number of spaces autho-
     rized will be considered on a case-by-case basis not to exceed four spaces per organization. Spaces
     marked for a specific GOV used by a squadron level commander and above (or civilian equiva-
     lent) may be marked by office symbol (e.g. 78 CEG/CC GOV, MXRI/CC GOV, ATSG/CC
     GOV). For additional GOV reserved parking see paragraph 3.2.2.
     3.1.5. Handicap Parking. Handicap parking will typically be unassigned. However, handicap
     parking shall be provided based on identified need to ensure that adequate handicap parking is
     available. Handicap parking shall be provided to accommodate employee needs as documented by
     a state issued handicap permit. Individuals must take a letter from their physician identifying the
     need for a handicap parking space to the local Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) to obtain a
     valid state-issued handicap placard. The physician’s letter alone will not be accepted for a handi-
     capped parking space.
        3.1.5.1. Two types of handicap parking spaces are available based on the accommodation
        required - special and regular.
            3.1.5.1.1. Special. This accommodation will be provided to employees who require access
            clearance to enter or exit their vehicle. Special access clearance will be sized in accordance
            with the guidelines provided under the American’s with Disabilities Act (ADA).
            3.1.5.1.2. Regular. This accommodation shall be provided to those employees that require
            no special accommodation for access to the vehicle but require a special location for
            access to their workplace. A regular style parking space with normal access clearance will
            be provided in those situations.
        3.1.5.2. Assigned handicap spaces are expected to be rare and will be determined on a case by
        case basis. Should circumstances warrant the assignment of a space to an individual; this will
        be requested in accordance with paragraph 3.2.2. Assigned handicap spaces shall be re-vali-
        dated annually. Assigned handicap spaces shall be marked with the organizational symbol fol-
        lowed by a double letter designation, i.e., 78 ABW AA.
            3.1.5.2.1. Employees needing an assigned handicap parking space shall provide a copy of
            the state issued parking permit with the person’s name and expiration date on the permit.
            The parking monitor will forward it along with written explanation why the designation is
            needed to their parking wardens who will make the request in accordance with paragraph
            3.2.2.
            3.1.5.2.2. Employees that are provided assigned parking at their primary work locations
            due to handicap or medical reasons are not permitted to park in assigned spaces at other
            locations. These employees may utilize open handicap spaces at other than their primary
            work locations provided that a handicap permit is properly displayed.
     3.1.6. Permit Parking. Permit parking includes spaces throughout the installation for the follow-
     ing:
        3.1.6.1. “General Officer” spaces are reserved for general officers and Senior Executive Ser-
        vice (SES) members with a “G” parking decal. “General Officer” parking spaces are only
6                                                       ROBINSAFBI32-101 29 OCTOBER 2007


       authorized at the Base Exchange, Commissary, Golf Course, Enlisted Club, Officers Club,
       Building 905, Fitness Center, and Robins AFB Museum of Aviation.
       3.1.6.2. “C Permit” parking spaces are reserved for Colonels (0-6’s) and GS/GM-15s with a
       “C” parking decal. “C Permit” parking spaces are only authorized at the Base Exchange, Com-
       missary, Golf Course, Enlisted Club, Officers Club, Building 905, Fitness Center, and Robins
       AFB Museum of Aviation.
       3.1.6.3. “D Permit” parking spaces are reserved for Chief Master Sergeants with a “D” park-
       ing decal. “D Permit” parking spaces are only authorized at the Base Exchange, Commissary,
       Golf Course, Enlisted Club, Officers Club, Building 905, Fitness Center, and Robins AFB
       Museum of Aviation.
       3.1.6.4. Parking permits are issued by 78 SFS Pass and Registration (78 SFS/SFOXI).
    3.1.7. Special Reserved Parking. Special reserved parking includes spaces throughout the instal-
    lation for the following:
       3.1.7.1. One “Quarterly Award Winner” parking spaces is authorized at the Base Exchange,
       Commissary, Enlisted Club and Officer’s Club for use by all base level Quarterly Award Win-
       ners-military and civil service-on a first-come, first-served basis.
       3.1.7.2. Emergency Vehicle parking spaces are reserved for emergency response vehicles
       only.
       3.1.7.3. WR-ALC Executive Council member spaces at building 215. Members of the Execu-
       tive Council who do not work in building 215 will be provided reserved spaces at Bldg 215.
       These will be in addition to their primary work locations. Members of the Executive Council
       who work in Bldg 215 will not be provided additional spaces for their service on the Executive
       Council.
       3.1.7.4. Senior Battle Staff and Installation Crisis Action Team (ICAT) parking. Senior mem-
       bers of Battle staff and ICAT will be provided parking spaces at Battle Staff and ICAT facili-
       ties. These will be in addition to their primary work locations unless their primary work
       location is the Battle Staff or ICAT facility.
       3.1.7.5. For approval of any unique or special circumstances, see paragraph 3.2.
    3.1.8. Temporary Reserved Parking. Each parking monitor is responsible for issuing and main-
    taining documentation for temporary reserved parking. The parking monitor may only temporarily
    reserve a parking space with the base approved standard reserved parking sign (provided by the
    building facility manager). Temporary reserved parking may only be issued for a maximum of two
    weeks except for temporary handicap parking as described in paragraph 3.1.8.3. See Attach-
    ment 1 for an example of a temporary reserved sign. The name of the individual the parking space
    is reserved for and the date the reserved parking sign will be removed must be included. All
    reserved signs will display the removal date in the upper right hand corner of the name placard.
    The parking monitor may issue temporary parking for the following:
       3.1.8.1. Distinguished Visitor (DV) as defined in this instruction.
       3.1.8.2. Temporary Employee Relocation. This type of reserved parking is only authorized
       when an individual’s reserved parking space is removed or no longer accessible due to con-
       struction or repair work.
ROBINSAFBI32-101 29 OCTOBER 2007                                                                       7


         3.1.8.3. Temporary Handicap Parking may be issued by the parking monitors should existing
         handicap parking be inadequate based upon receipt of a copy of an employee’s valid state
         issued handicap permit indicating the temporary need. Temporary handicap parking may be
         issued for up to 30 days. All temporary handicap reserved spaces must be approved by the
         parking warden. If the need extends beyond 30 days or the need exceeds two temporary spaces
         at one time, the parking monitor should forward the request to the parking warden for a perma-
         nently marked space. Temporary handicap parking may be indicated with a temporary parking
         stanchion.
         3.1.8.4. Parking monitors may not use another organizational, government vehicle, handicap,
         or special reserved parking space.
         3.1.8.5. Cones, ropes, and marking tape can only be used to temporarily prohibit parking for
         safety, security, or construction reasons per coordination with or action by the center safety
         office (78 ABW/SE), the 78 SFS, and the 78 CEG respectively.
         3.1.8.6. Event Parking. Contact 78 SFS/SFOSP, extension 2-1990/1991/1992, as far in
         advance as possible when an event is coordinated in an area with insufficient legal parking.
  3.2. Authorizing Reserved Parking. Requests for reserved parking will be made from the appropriate
  unit parking warden listed in paragraph 1.5. and paragraph 1.6. to the BCE. Authorizing reserved
  parking falls under two categories: reserved parking within the established limits of this instruction
  and reserved parking outside the limits of this instruction. Parking wardens shall review all parking
  needs annually and submit a letter to the BCE indicating the number of reserve parking spaces pro-
  vided to their units and any additions or deletions in requirements.
     3.2.1. To request reserved parking within the limits authorized by this instruction follow the fol-
     lowing request process:
         3.2.1.1. Each organization requesting reserved parking must submit a memorandum through
         their organizational parking monitor to the respective parking warden. The memorandum must
         list the organization requesting reserved parking; the name, grade and job title of the individ-
         ual each space is being reserved for, type of reserved parking space that is being requested, a
         diagram of the parking area where the reserved space is requested, and the current number of
         reserved parking spaces each respective organization has by category.
         3.2.1.2. The respective parking warden must complete a Base Civil Engineering Work
         Request AF Form 332 and submit it to CE Customer Service. Included with the AF Form 332
         will be all of the information listed in paragraph 3.2.1.1.
     3.2.2. To request reserved parking over the limits authorized by this instruction, comply with the
     following request process (a flowchart of the process is included in Attachment 2).
         3.2.2.1. The Group Commander (or higher) for the requesting organization shall be responsi-
         ble for submitting a Staff Summary Sheet (SSS) describing the justification for the request.
         The SSS shall be routed to the Installation Commander via the 78 CEG for approval.
         3.2.2.2. The BCE will write a recommendation to the Installation Commander or their desig-
         nated representative based on all pertinent information regarding the requested parking space.
         This recommendation, along with all of the information supplied by the parking warden, will
         be sent to the 78 ABW/CC or designated representative for their approval or disapproval.
8                                                           ROBINSAFBI32-101 29 OCTOBER 2007


           3.2.2.3. If approved, the respective parking warden must complete a Base Civil Engineering
           Work Request AF Form 332 and submit it to CE Customer Service. Included with the AF
           Form 332 will be all of the information listed in paragraph 3.2.2.1. Also included must be a
           copy of the SSS approving the request.
       3.2.3. All personnel with a designated parking space shall display a means of identifying their
       parking assignment on their vehicle. For military personnel, the rank displayed on their vehicles
       will suffice. Parking permits issued by 78 SFS/SFOXI will suffice. In other cases, parking moni-
       tors shall issue a minimum 3 inch by 5 inch card indicating the assigned designation with the park-
       ing monitor’s name, organization and signature on the card. The card may be hung from the rear
       view mirror or displayed on the dash board of the vehicle. Employees shall not be permitted to
       duplicate the card for use in more than one vehicle. Each organization shall be responsible for
       accountability and issuance of all cards (i.e. numbering system for authentication, who it was
       issued to, for what reason and tracking each card issued/turned in).
    3.3. This instruction recognizes existing collective bargaining agreements that provide reserved park-
    ing to the bargaining unit, i.e. the Local Supplement Agreement between Robins AFB and the IAFF
    Local F-107 and AFGE local 987, except where new provisions have been provided.
    3.4. The 78 ABW/CC or designated representative reserves the right to regulate all reserve parking
    especially where warranted by facility and area operational circumstances (e.g., buildings 300/301 or
    industrial/flightline area).

4. Unauthorized Alteration of Government Property.
    4.1. The 78 CES paint shop is the only organization authorized to paint the parking lot areas on Rob-
    ins AFB. Individuals caught painting the parking lot will be subject to disciplinary action.

5. Parking Violation Penalties.
    5.1. Three parking violations within 12 months will result in a 30-day suspension of on-base driving
    privileges.
    5.2. Four parking violations within 12 months will result in a 60-day suspension of on-base driving
    privileges.
    5.3. Five parking violations within 12 months will result in a 6-month suspension of on-base driving
    privileges.
    5.4. More than five violations within 12 months will result in revocation of on-base driving privileges
    for 1 year.
    5.5. Violations will be considered for 12 calendar months after the first occurrence for the purpose of
    the suspension or revocation of driving privileges.
    5.6. Parking violations will be processed against the sponsor to whom the vehicle is registered
    through Pass & Registration.
    5.7. Administrative action taken under this paragraph does not preclude disciplinary action.

6. Parking Ticket Rebuttal Procedures.
ROBINSAFBI32-101 29 OCTOBER 2007                                                                          9


   6.1. Individuals desiring to rebut a ticket will contact 78 SFS/SFAR at extension 6-5842 with their
   intent within 10 calendar days of the date of the citation. The 78 SFS/SFAR will prepare an adminis-
   trative hearing package for the 78 MSG/CC. The 78 MSG/CC will hear the rebuttal and issue a deci-
   sion within 10 calendar days. If the issue is not resolved, the individual may appeal the parking
   violation to the 78 ABW/CC.
   6.2. Bargaining unit employees may grieve parking tickets under procedures set forth in their respec-
   tive negotiated grievance procedure.

7. Towing Vehicles.
   7.1. Vehicles may be towed for parking violations such as parking next to a fire hydrant, in a fire lane,
   loading zone, non-designated area, where the vehicle is causing a traffic hazard or safety issue, and in
   other instances where the 78 SFS has determined it to be unsafe.
   7.2. Vehicles towed from the installation will be towed at the owner’s expense.
   7.3. The 78 SFS Operations Flight (78 SFS/SFO) will be the point of contact on all parking-related
   towed vehicles from the installation.



                                               THERESA C. CARTER, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
10                                                         ROBINSAFBI32-101 29 OCTOBER 2007


                                             Attachment 1

                          STANDARDIZED RESERVE PARKING SIGN
The approved standard reserve parking sign for Robins AFB shall be as shown in Figure A1.1. below.
Figure A1.2. shows the details of the nameplate.

Figure A1.1. Approved Standard Reserve Parking Sign.




Figure A1.2. Sample Nameplate for Standard Reserve Parking Sign.




TO ORDER “RESERVED PARKING” SIGN
Contact: 78 MSG/SVRS Arts and Crafts Center: 926-3004
POC for ordering signs via e-mail at: jaclyn.wilkerson@robins.af.mil
Required Information: Number of signs required & name for each name plate required
Cost: $102.00 each complete (‘reserved parking’, name plate, base & post)
A charge of $5.00 is required for each additional name plate
Allow 2 working days to make custom name plates
Pick up completed order at Bldg 984; will receive e-mail confirmation of order & pick up date
ROBINSAFBI32-101 29 OCTOBER 2007                         11


                                      Attachment 2

                        OVER AND ABOVE REQUEST PROCESS

Figure A2.1. Over and Above Request Flowchart.
