BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                                            21-111

                                                                                                                     5 JANUARY 2010

                                                                                                                             Maintenance

                                                                                            DEPOT MAINTENANCE
                                                                                     ACTIVATION PLANNING (DMAP)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: WR-ALC/XPL                                                                                        Certified by: WR-ALC/XP
                                                                                                                  (Ms. Kim Lynn)
                                                                                                                        Pages: 36


This instruction applies to Warner Robins Air Logistics Center (WR-ALC) organizations and
personnel that have been assigned the roles and responsibilities contained herein. It prescribes
responsibilities for formulating and implementing Depot Maintenance Activation Plans (DMAP)
for new and fielded systems, subsystems, equipment, munitions, and major modifications. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional‘s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.


       1.     Overview. ...............................................................................................................    2
       2.     Depot Maintenance Activation Planning. ..............................................................                        5
       3.     Depot Activation for Special Circumstances. ........................................................                        12
       4.     Prescribed and Adopted Forms. .............................................................................                 13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION                                                                          14

Attachment 2—SAMPLE DMAWG CHARTER                                                                                                         18
2                                                    ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


Attachment 3—SAMPLE DEPOT MAINTENANCE ACTIVATION PLAN                                        23

Attachment 4—SAMPLE STATUS TRACKING SUMMARY                                                  32

Attachment 5—SAMPLE INTEGRATED MASTER SCHEDULE                                               33

Attachment 6—– MAPT ASSESSMENT                                                               35

Attachment 7—SAMPLE DEPOT LEVEL REPAIRABLE/LEGACY ACTIVATION PLAN                            36


1. Overview. This instruction establishes the DMAP Process
    1.1. Depot maintenance activation requirements: Planning must begin early in the
    acquisition lifecycle before the Milestone (MS)-A decision. Each subsequent step in the
    process depends on acceptable completion of the preceding program accomplishments.
    Consult AFI 63-101 Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, and the
    Acquisition               Sustainment            (AS)             Tool              Kit
    https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/Process/ProcessDOCFunctions.asp?DocID=35
    38813&Function=ViewDocument&FolderID=MC-LG-01-82-5-3&Filter=MC-LG-01-82
       1.1.1. During the User Needs and Technology Opportunities Phase prior to MS-A, an
       Initial Capabilities Document (ICD) is developed with participation from Acquisition and
       Sustainment Personnel. A review and coordination version is sent to WR-ALC for
       Center review. At this point the sustainment community, in collaboration with the user,
       should address reliability, availability and maintainability to ensure life cycle mission
       capability and supportability. The supportability objectives define the supportability
       analysis for the program. The supportability analysis is an analytical tool, conducted as
       part of the systems engineering process to determine the most cost-effective support of
       the system over its entire life cycle, including depot repair. It provides the basis for
       related design requirements to include Technical Orders (TO), Support Equipment (SE)
       and Packaging, Handling, Storage & Transportation (PHS&T), Reliability,
       Maintainability & Availability (RMA), Producibility, Interoperability and Maintenance
       Concept that may be included in specifications. The depot maintenance strategy will
       become part of the supportability structure.
          1.1.1.1. The Mission Assignment (MA) should follow the completion and validation
          of the ICD. The MA is the designation of the product and logistics centers that will
          be responsible for acquisition and sustainment management of a weapon system or
          program. It is critical that the MA is issued before MS-A to identify the ALC so that
          product support, manpower and Program Objective Memorandum (POM)
          requirements can be submitted and Budget Authority (BA) received. Only then can
          resources be put in place to support the system sustainment planning. Since depot
          maintenance is a major part of sustainment planning, any delay in the mission
          assignment process will adversely impact later planning requirements. The MA will
          be issued by HQ AFMC. The Milestone Decision Authority (MDA) approves
          advancing to the next phase but this does not mean that a new acquisition system has
          been initiated.
       1.1.2. The Material Solution Analysis Phase/Concept Studies Phase is to assess potential
       solutions to the user‘s needs. Activities in this phase are to prepare for the MS-A
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                                 3


     decision. An assessment of technology applied across the life cycle is accomplished.
     This includes sustainment; which includes depot maintenance. Initial product support
     strategies are drafted that consider a balance between organic and commercial
     capabilities, partnerships, and factors to optimize the product support elements.
        1.1.2.1. The strategic-level Life Cycle Management Plan (LCMP) is supported by all
        previous activities and should be completed before the MS-A decision. The LCMP is
        a living document which will be updated as the system acquisition matures and into
        sustainment until demilitarization. This is especially relevant to depot activation
        because the Life Cycle Sustainment Plan (LCSP) is part of the LCMP. The LCSP
        includes all logistics elements and requirements to sustain the existing system while
        the replacement system is phased in to the inventory. A well written and useful
        LCMP is a direct result of the collaborative efforts of a multifunctional team. In
        many respects, the process used to develop the LCMP is as important as the
        document itself. All stakeholders must be active participants in this process.
            1.1.2.1.1. This is best accomplished through the establishment of a LCMP
            Integrated Product Team (IPT). In addition to the core members representing the
            System Program Manager (SPM) on life cycle (acquisition and sustainment)
            logistics, representatives from the sustainment ALC should be invited. Early and
            continuous involvement with both operational and sustainment organizations have
            proven to enhance a cooperative relationship and maximize the opportunity for a
            successful program. The level of representation from these organizations may
            vary according to the ACAT level of the program.
            1.1.2.1.2. WR-ALC will receive a review copy during HQ AFMC coordination
            cycle. All LCMPs are accessible for all stakeholders on the Air Force Knowledge
            Now (AFKN) LCMP Community of Practice (CoP) when approved in accordance
            with AFI 63-101.
            1.1.2.1.3. The LCMP should be updated prior to each MS decision. The Material
            Solution Analysis/Concept Studies Phase ends when the MDA approves the
            solution with the MS-A decision.
     1.1.3. The Technology Development/Concept Development and Preliminary Design
     Phase begins MS-A. This phase is important to prepare for the MS-B and will include
     activities that will assess technology and develop requirements. Requirements for the
     initial increment of affordable capability will be documented in the Capability
     Development Document (CDD). WR-ALC will receive a review copy of the CDD.
        1.1.3.1. Significant activities begin in this phase that will have an impact on system
        sustainment which includes depot maintenance activation. Included is SE Guidance
        Conference, development of the provisioning strategy, Spares Provisioning Guidance
        Conference and the Strategic Source of Repair (SSOR).
        1.1.3.2. The Depot Maintenance Activation Working Group (DMAWG) is
        established. The objective of the DMAWG is to ensure a required depot maintenance
        capability is set up in a timely and efficient manner to achieve government-controlled
        capabilities for the depot repair. Capability in the context of depot activation is the
        ability to successfully accomplish the repair on an initial asset and the ability to fully
4                                                     ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


           transition 100% of the planned workload requirements. The DMAWG is the forum
           for conducting depot maintenance activation planning to ensure funding, contracting,
           and delivery of data is accomplished. The group must be in place within 30 days
           after the Preliminary Design Review (PDR) and prior to MS-C. If support concept is
           total Contractor Logistics Support (CLS), a DMAWG is not required; however a
           Contractor Depot Activation Plan is still required and should be flowed through the
           SE and Automatic Test System (ATS) office for coordination. Capital investments or
           commitments cannot be made to activate a depot until the Depot Source of Repair
           (DSOR) process is complete.
       1.1.4. Engineering and Manufacturing Development (EMD)/Complete Design Phase
       starts after MS-B approval. An increment of capability will be developed and produced
       as prototypes in order to ensure operability before production begins. The details of the
       life cycle sustainment will begin to evolve. This includes the Depot Level Repairable
       (DLR) requirements that will impact future activation requirements.
           1.1.4.1. The level of detail required to complete the DSOR process will be available.
           Introducing DLR requirements to the Joint Depot Maintenance Activities Group
           (JDMAG) https://jdmag.wpafb.af.mil/ will result in the final DoD Source of Repair
           (SOR) approval. It is introduced by submitting the JG-DM Form 27, DMI Candidate
           Information, JG-DM Form 28, Depot Repairable Item List and the Depot
           Maintenance Planning Information. The Depot Maintenance Inter-service (DMI)
           decision will be issued to the PM by the JDMAG through HQ AFMC. This will
           complete the DSOR process in preparation for the MS-C decision.
    1.2. Roles and Responsibilities: Roles and responsibilities are identified by the function and
    not the geographical location or organization where the function is assigned.
       1.2.1. Program Manager (PM)—The DODD 5000.01 designated individual with
       responsibility for and authority to accomplish program objectives for development,
       production, and sustainment to meet the user‗s operational needs. The PM for sub-
       systems shall support overall system objectives as required by the System Program
       Manager (SPM). The PM for acquisition programs shall be accountable for credible cost,
       schedule, performance, and materiel readiness to the MDA. Acquisition Category
       (ACAT) I, ACAT IA, and ACAT II PM shall be chartered by the Service Acquisition
       Executive (SAE) and the Program Executive Officer (PEO). Delegated ACAT II and III
       PM shall be chartered by the PEO or Designated Acquisition Official (DAO). The PM
       for sustainment programs shall be accountable for credible cost, schedule, performance,
       and materiel readiness to the AFMC/CC or designee.
       1.2.2. Functional Support—The PM leads the program organization in executing the
       mission. Each functional representative within the program, irrespective of location or
       whether that person supports the program on a full-time or part-time basis, should report
       to and take program direction through the PM. Functional staffs external to the program
       office are not accountable for program execution; they are responsible for providing
       trained human resources and advice to the PM for the purpose of DMAP. The PM will
       delegate the DMAWG chair to the System Sustainment Manager (SSM).
           1.2.2.1. Chief/Lead Logistician—The Chief/Lead Logistician must ensure the 12
           Product Support Elements are addressed during cost, schedule, and technical
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                               5


         performance risk assessments. Product Support areas that must be considered and
         included in the Life Cycle Support Cost Estimates and Budgeting, including
         requirements for depot maintenance activation requirements are:                    1)
         sustaining/system engineering, 2) design interface, 3) supply support, 4) maintenance
         planning and management, 5) support equipment/automatic test systems (SE/ATS), 6)
         facilities, 7) packaging, handling, storage, and transportation (PHS&T), 8) technical
         data management/technical orders, 9) manpower and personnel, 10) training, 11)
         computer resources, and 12) protection of critical program information and anti-
         tamper provisions. The product support elements are further defined in AFPAM 63-
         128. Logistics support is provided to the DMAWG to ensure depot requirements are
         included in the early acquisition planning.
         1.2.2.2. System Sustainment Manager—The SSM is an individual with functional
         responsibility for the sustainment portion of a system‗s life cycle and in support of a
         PM. SSM responsibilities may include product support integration. Product support
         integration consists of integrating the activities of the product support providers as
         well as intra-system and inter-system integration with supporting systems,
         subsystems, end-items, components and facilities. The SSM has a major role in
         developing the provisioning strategy and the Spares Provisioning Guidance
         Conference. The SSM also chairs the DMAWG in support of program objectives.
         1.2.2.3. Development System Manager (DSM)—The DSM is an individual with
         functional responsibility for the development portion of a system‗s life cycle and in
         support of a PM.
         1.2.2.4. Chief/Lead Engineer—The Chief/Lead Engineer is the PM‗s designated
         technical authority in the disciplined execution of the Systems Engineering process,
         including development of the Systems Engineering Plan. The Chief/Lead Engineer is
         responsible to the PM to establish, implement, manage, and control SE activities
         necessary to develop and field robust products and systems that exhibit attributes of
         system security, Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E), and
         Mission Assurance.
         1.2.2.5. Maintenance Activation Planning Team (MAPT) Chief—The MAPT Chief
         is the WR-ALC representative for depot maintenance activities. The MAPT Chief is
         the Center focal point for all support required from WR-ALC organizations in support
         of activating organic capability. The MAPT Chief is the single Point of Contact
         (POC) for all ALC requirements and Co-Chairs the assessments and activations with
         the other core members. He/she is responsible for supporting the DMAWG
         requirements to ensure depot maintenance activation. A primary role is to manage,
         communicate and coordinate with internal Center organizations and other DMAWG
         functional support and team members.
      1.2.3. Other Functional Support—other functional support consists of individuals
      performing program execution activities in support of a PM. This includes, but is not
      limited to, engineering, financial management, contracting, legal review and analysis,
      logistics, sustainment, intelligence, test, and project management.
2. Depot Maintenance Activation Planning.
6                                                    ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


    2.1. HQ AFMC/A4: Reserved
    2.2. HQ AFMC/A4D: Reserved
    2.3. Program Manager
       2.3.1. The PM is responsible for all Sustainment elements, including requirements to
       activate depot maintenance capability at the designated SOR.
       2.3.2. At MS-A the PM must verify the MA decision for acquisition and sustainment
       responsibilities. HQ AFMC/A8/9 must be contacted to ensure the MA process is started
       prior to program initiation.
       2.3.3. Implement programming and budgeting action in support of all depot maintenance
       requirements and track DMAP actions through the standard reporting procedure outlined
       in this instruction and AFI 63-101 and DoDI 5000.02.
       2.3.4. The PM must plan for Automatic Test Systems (ATS) requirements.
          2.3.4.1. The DoD ATS Selection Process Guide‘ which can be found at
          http:www.acq.osd.mil/ats shall be used to guide ATS selection.
          2.3.4.2. The PM shall contact the ATS Product Group Manager (PGM) as repair
          requirements are identified and in sufficient time to allow budgeting, funding, and
          delivery of testers/test equipment system. This includes the hardware and software to
          run the required tests.
          2.3.4.3. The PM shall provide parametric testing requirements to the ATS PGM to
          include details of the test ranges as well as any additional requirements, i.e., must be
          able to be nuclear certified, must be portable, etc.
          2.3.4.4. The PM shall ensure that requirement to use DoD Standard ATS is a part of
          the repair/depot stand-up contracts for all new acquisitions.
          2.3.4.5. Where depot workload is moving from contract to organic repair, the PM
          shall contact the ATS PGM to guide the Program Office in the selection of the most
          appropriate test equipment and software from an AF enterprise and life cycle
          perspective.
          2.3.4.6. The PM shall obtain an approved waiver from the ATS PGM to buy non-
          standard equipment prior to the purchase of the non-standard equipment.
          2.3.4.7. The PM shall fund all Test Program Sets (TPSs) and peculiar equipment.
          2.3.4.8. The PM shall provide plans to the ATS PGM for upgrading, refreshing
          technology, and/or replacing existing testers as the need arises.
       2.3.5. Identify all new acquisitions with depot maintenance repair potential to HQ
       AFMC/A4D through the DSOR process.
          2.3.5.1. DSOR decisions and programmed resources are required prior to MS-C for
          new depot capabilities.
          2.3.5.2. Complete the Strategic Source of Repair or Source of Repair Assignment
          Process
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                               7


        2.3.5.3. Submit Joint Logistics Commanders (JLC) Form 27, DMI Candidate
        Information; JLC Form 28, Depot Reparable Items List; and JLC Form 44, Rationale
        for Organic or Commercial Repair of New or Postured Items, to HQ AFMC/A4D to
        initiate the DMI study on new system acquisitions, as soon as possible upon
        AFMC/A4 approval of the PM SOR recommendation but no later than 90 days after
        the award of the EMD contract or the equivalent milestone.
     2.3.6. Accomplish the following tasks which define specific actions required by the PM
     to satisfy responsibilities as delineated in DODI 5000.02 and AFI 63-101.
        2.3.6.1. Initiate and implement DMAP as part of the overall program acquisition and
        sustainment process.
        2.3.6.2. Develop a plan for each depot activation system or component repairable if
        requirement is below system level. The DMAP plan will be provided to HQ
        AFMC/A4DC within 90 days of the final HQ AFMC/A4 approval letter with the
        DMI results. Include participating Service‘s requirements in the DMAP for joint
        service programs.
        2.3.6.3. Develop and maintain the Integrated Master Schedule (IMS). The PM shall
        develop and maintain the IMS that integrates all program activities and schedules into
        a single sight picture. Depot activation is a program activity and will be incorporated.
        This includes IMS from all contractors, as well as government activities responsible
        for each element of the activation process, including the MAPT. They should be
        integrated at all levels, contain sufficient detail, and capture key events. The IMS
        provides a basis for effective communication; serves as the baseline for activation
        plans, status, and progress. (AFMCPAM 63-5)
        2.3.6.4. Funds shall be programmed and budgeted for depot activation planning and
        execution; All Product Support Elements as it relates to depot maintenance – 1)
        sustaining/system engineering, 2) design interface, 3) supply support, 4) maintenance
        planning and management, 5) support equipment and ATS, 6) facilities, 7) PHS&T,
        8) technical data management/T.O.‘s, 9) manpower and personnel, 10) training, 11)
        computer resources, and 12) protection of critical program information and anti-
        tamper provisions - shall be available to enable implementation of the DMAP plan
        and activate depot maintenance capability to support the projected workload within
        four years of system/component Initial Operational Capability (IOC). Additional
        information on the Product Support Elements is in AFPAM 63-128.
        2.3.6.5. The PM will request representation from the assigned SSM at completion of
        the Technology Development/Concept Development Phase at MS-B. The EMD
        phase includes life cycle sustainment posturing in preparation for MS-C approval.
        2.3.6.6. The DMAP support includes the SSM with sustainment personnel and the
        MAPT.
        2.3.6.7. The DMAWG chair will be delegated to the SSM or responsible office as
        defined by the Sustainment Program Master List.
        2.3.6.8. The PM works with the DMAWG to prioritize the order in which depot
        repair capabilities are to be activated based on the criticality of the specific items
8                                                     ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


          within the program. Depot workload, available contractor repair, available funding,
          projected reparable generations, weapons system mission availability criteria will be
          considered in establishing the criticality. Additionally, the ease of becoming depot
          activated should be considered with the intent to get more items off of Interim
          Contract Support (ICS).
          2.3.6.9. Budget decisions and shortfalls that may affect depot maintenance activation
          shall be provided to the early DMAP Team and the subsequent DMAWG.
          2.3.6.10. Depot maintenance data requirements shall be funded, contracted for, and
          delivered to the Air Force in a timely manner so that appropriate agencies can plan
          and make related depot maintenance decisions.
          2.3.6.11. The production contract shall support the depot maintenance activation plan
          and schedule. The PM shall also plan for and fund all data and hardware required to
          implement the DMAP.
    2.4. ATS PGM
       2.4.1. Assist the program offices in hosting depot workloads onto standard Automatic
       Test Equipment (ATE)/ATS. This includes performing the analysis to determine if a
       standard tester can meet requirements and if not, what would need to be added.
       2.4.2. Fund the procurement of DoD standard testers when requirements have been
       identified to the PGM in time to budget, procure, and deliver the test system.
       2.4.3. Provide a vehicle for acquiring standard testers either through a contract or another
       means of building the tester.
       2.4.4. Validate the veracity of analysis to not use standard testers and champion waivers
       through the DoD ATS Management Board (AMB) when the ATS PGM deems it is in the
       AF‘s best interest to acquire a non-standard tester.
    2.5. Common Support Equipment (CSE) PGM
       2.5.1. Helps the PM formulate recommendations for the maintenance plan. This
       includes recommendations concerning the use of CSE. These will be coordinated
       through the prime system SPD.
       2.5.2. Helps the PM develop the DMAP as it relates to SE.
       2.5.3. Helps the PM determine if existing standard CSE currently in use at depot repair
       facilities can be used to support the system or item.
    2.6. System Sustainment Manager (SSM)
       2.6.1. The SSM assists the PM in formulating recommendations for repair levels, SE,
       technical manuals for DLR, personnel requirements, and facility criteria. Additionally,
       the SSM is responsible for evaluation of the contract deliverables associated with depot
       activation, e.g., schematics, drawings, Technical Manual Contract Requirement (TMCR),
       Technical Order Verification (TOV), and Prototype activities. The SSM will participate
       in the Product Support Strategy development; design reviews, Repair Level Analysis
       review (RLA), and will give technical advice for assigned hardware.
       2.6.2. Depot Planning
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                              9


        2.6.2.1. Develop a DMAWG Charter as defined by Attachment 2.
            2.6.2.1.1. The DMAWG prioritizes the order in which depot repair capabilities
            are to be activated based on depot workload, available organic repair capabilities,
            available funding, and projected reparable generations. Activation priorities must
            consider the expiration of interim contract support, IOC + 4 years and other
            relevant criteria.
        2.6.2.2. Utilize the DMAP plan defined by Attachment 3. Depot maintenance
        activation plans will be finalized with maintenance personnel during EMD Phase
        prior to MS-C decision for Low-Rate Initial Production (LRIP).
            2.6.2.2.1. The DMAP plans will be updated annually or as significant program
            changes occur. DMAWG activities and status will be reported for inclusion in
            each update.
        2.6.2.3. Depot repair requirements are unknown until the items are identified in an
        earlier lifecycle planning phase. Determination of Source, Maintenance, and
        Recoverability (SMR) codes must be accomplished during the provisioning process
        as one of the initial stages of DMAP activities. (AFM 23-110 and AFMCI 23-101).
        2.6.2.4. Supports the MAPT by jointly determining status reports for those planning
        elements that may adversely impact depot activation.
        2.6.2.5. Information and schedules to plan and track status of all depot activation
        requirements are developed by the PM with support from the DMAWG members.
        The IMS will be utilized by the DMAWG.
  2.7. WR-ALC/XP
     2.7.1. The Mission and Business Planning Division (XPL) is the Office of Primary
     Responsibility (OPR) for the DMAP process and will publish necessary updates to this
     instruction.
     2.7.2. The Depot Support Branch (XPLM) will deploy and maintain the process required
     for Center implementation of this instruction.
        2.7.3.1. When HQ AFMC/A4 sends the DMI decision to the PM and XPLM, XPLM
        will provide process guidance to the PM and the 402 MXW POC for activation
        support.
        2.7.3.2. XPLM will monitor subsequent MAPT reporting and activation activities to
        the extent required to maintain situational awareness of the DMAWG process.
  2.8. 402 MXW
     2.8.1. The Maintenance Wing Commander will assign the team lead for the MAPT. The
     MAPT lead will ultimately be responsible for the MAPT functions.
        2.8.1.1. The maintenance wing representative will continue from initial depot
        planning through DSOR completion and depot activation without interruption in a
        seamless transition. The DSOR Team member and the MAPT Chief will maintain
        continuous communication throughout each process to maintain the continuity of
        information and communication.
10                                                 ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


        2.8.1.2. MAPT Chiefs provides DLR assessment and activation schedule input.
        Coordinates resources and assimilates depot requirements from the ALC for support
        of the assessment and activations.
        2.8.1.3. The MAPT Chief oversees the assessment and activation processes for all of
        the workloads at a specific ALC. The team consists of the MAPT chief of the
        respective ALC and the Contractor Lead.
        2.8.1.4. The MAPT Chief will stand up a team of WR-ALC representatives from
        support organizations and maintenance shops that are required to successfully support
        the development of depot maintenance capability.
        2.8.1.5. The MAPT Chief attends DMAWGs. The MAPT provides representation to
        working groups such as the DMAWG. As the WR-ALC depot activation
        representative, the MAPT Chief represents the WR-ALC Commander to the
        DMAWG and is the focal point for all activities at WR-ALC required to execute the
        MAPT responsibilities, regardless of program office location or organization. This
        provides a centralized focus for the Center and prevents organizational barriers
        between the ALC and externally managed programs. It provides flow of information
        that is required by the Center Commander to provide strategic planning. It eliminates
        duplication of information required to satisfy DMAWG and Center reporting. It
        delegates appropriate authority to the MAPT commensurate with roles and
        responsibilities.
     2.8.2. MAPT Management and reporting.
        2.8.2.1. The MAPT Chief maintains visibility and status of all requirements that must
        be provided to the maintenance wing to accomplish depot repair. Attachment 4 and 5
        provide guidelines for data elements and format. The attachments are provided as a
        standard management tool for all MAPTs and associate IPTs to maintain current
        status and progress in meeting maintenance activation objectives. Action will be
        initiated to resolve/report shortfalls and mitigate adverse impact to depot activation.
        2.8.2.2. Standard reporting information defined by Attachment 4 or program IMS
        requirement will be utilized by each SOR MAPT. Current status will be provided to
        the DMAWG to update the DMAP plan for the system/component.
        2.8.2.3. Standard information requirement defined by Attachment 5, or program
        IMS, that is utilized by each MAPT and current status will be provided to the
        DMAWG for updating depot activation IMS for the system/component. Significant
        milestone tasks and the critical path(s) will be included along with the planning dates.
        Forward planning must be accomplished based on programmatic details to meet the
        end activation date.
        2.8.2.4. The MAPT Chief provides the 402 MXW Commander a monthly status of
        the DMAP activities.
        2.8.2.5. The MAPT Chief is responsible for the current status that satisfies the WR-
        ALC Commanders reporting requirements. The status is based on the MAPT Chief‘s
        assessment and scheduling information that is used to satisfy responsibilities as a
        DMAWG member. The information and format required is defined by Attachment 6.
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                                11


           2.8.2.5.1. On the 15th of the first month beginning each quarter, the report will be
           updated and saved to the XPL DSOR Library/Activation/MAPT Reporting.
           https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/FOWRALC/xp/xpl/DSOR%20Library
        2.8.2.6. The MAPT Chief will coordinate activation activities with other WR-ALC
        organizations as necessary to support the workload for new acquisition and fielded
        systems. He/she will establish a strong interface with the appropriate product
        division pre-production planning team.
     2.8.3. Maintenance Activation Planning Team.
        2.8.3.1. The MAPT IPT is a joint ALC/Integrated Product Team which performs
        individual workload assessments and activations.
        2.8.3.2. Supports development of the depot maintenance activation segment of the
        appropriate integrated LCMP and LCSP program elements, including the IMS.
        2.8.3.3. Will support development and refinement of the Life Cycle Management
        Plan and logistics support elements that impact depot activation.
        2.8.3.4. Determines the requirement for additional industrial plant equipment.
        2.8.3.5. Identifies the requirement for additional facilities. Monitors status of facility
        modifications, additions and construction included in the Facility Requirements Plan
        (FRP) for the future capability required to support the workload. Notifies the
        appropriate facilities engineering organization of impact to the progress required to
        meet activation and induction timelines. Initiates action to resolve issues that hinder
        the successful implementation of the depot activation schedule.
        2.8.3.6. Evaluates personnel and training requirements to support and conduct depot
        repair of each repairable item.
        2.8.3.7. MAPT planning efforts are reported to the DMAWG for inclusion in
        logistics management information, reviews, DMAP and the IMS.
        2.8.3.8. Maintains the current status of all depot support equipment and the planning
        or progress of installation, checkout, and demonstration of equipment.
        2.8.3.9. Maintains the status of the depot training program.
        2.8.3.10. Initiates, maintains and coordinates with the local Technical Order
        Management Agency (TOMA) on depot TO verification plan that provides for timely
        verification of depot TOs. Verification will be accomplished on the Preliminary
        Technical Order (PTO) during the Prototype/First article as defined by the TO
        verification plan.
        2.8.3.11. Monitors receipt of repair parts required for DLR items and provides
        staging area until parts are required by the shop for Prototype/First Article.
        2.8.3.12. Monitors the initial requisition of consumable material required to return
        repairable item to serviceable condition.
        2.8.3.13. Monitors the required common tools.
12                                                      ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


            2.8.3.14. Provides the Maintenance Group Commander with the status of the DMAP
            activities for assigned DLR items.
            2.8.3.15. Works with the SSM/DMAWG to prioritize the order in which depot repair
            capabilities are to be activated based on the criticality of the specific items within a
            program and other dependant factors.
            2.8.3.16. Reports any activation concerns or unresolved issues to the MAPT Chief.
3. Depot Activation for Special Circumstances.
     3.1. Special circumstances include:
        3.1.1. Legacy Systems include any program that has passed IOC. Also, any component
        that has been fielded that may or may not have a DSOR decision but requires organic
        depot level repair.
        3.1.2. Acquisitions Strategies that were approved prior to completion of the DSOR
        process and did not include organic depot level repair sustainment but follow-on
        requirements for organic sustainment were determined.
        3.1.3. Workload that is considered to have a significant impact on the ALC or war
        fighter requirements.
            3.1.3.1. Workload that has been identified and justified by the workload evaluation
            process    as     outlined   in    the WR-ALC         Enterprise Business      Plan
            https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/FOWRALC/cbo/default.aspx
            3.1.3.2. For new technologies that are secured for the Center by the CBO will initiate
            a new Technology Repair Center (TRC) into the DSOR framework during the
            Candidate Depot Determination process.
     3.2. Depot Activation Implementation for Special Circumstances
        3.2.1. The PM shall initiate a DMAWG upon completion of the DMI and the request
        from HQ AFMC/A4 for an activation schedule/plan. The schedule/plan format as
        identified by Attachment 7 will be used to develop an activation plan for special
        circumstances and submit to HQ AFMC/A4 within 90 days of the requirement upon
        receipt of the DMI decision. The plan must include all tasks and major milestones that
        are relative to system requirements.
        3.2.2. Exhaust and document all avenues to achieve organic depot level repair.
            3.2.2.1. Fully organic by reverse engineering or purchasing data rights.
            3.2.2.2. Partnerships that deliver access to data rights and other logistics elements.
     3.3. Funding
        3.3.1. PM shall plan for and program funds for depot activation through the normal POM
        process.
        3.3.2. For workload that is identified in accordance with the WR-ALC Enterprise
        Business Plan https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/FOWRALC/cbo/default.aspx
        3.3.3. When depot activation must be accomplished prior to the POM process, the ALC
        will reprogram working capital funds under the Capital Purchase Program (CPP) based
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                              13


      on    priorities   defined     by   the WR-ALC      Enterprise          Business     Plan
      https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/FOWRALC/cbo/default.aspx.
          3.3.3.1. The PM will work with the CPP manager and 402 MXW/ OB work loading
          analysts to determine the feasibility of CPP investments. Existing workload that is
          deferred in support of incoming work of a higher priority will be transferred to a new
          SOR through the DSOR process.
4. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   4.1. Prescribed Forms: No forms prescribed.
      4.1.1. Adopted forms:
      AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                           POLLY A. PEYER, Major General, USAF
                                           Commander
14                                                   ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


                                         Attachment 1
       GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION

References
AF Memorandum, Guidance on Procurement of ATS/ATE, 26 November 2007
AFI 20-101, Logistics Strategic Planning Procedures, 12 November 1993
AFI 21-102, Depot Maintenance Management, 19 July 1994
AFI 21-133(I), Joint Depot Maintenance (JDM) Program, 31 March 1999
AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April 2009
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycles Systems Engineering, 23 July 2007
AFM 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 01 July 2008
AFMCI 21-101, Depot Maintenance Activation Planning (DMAP), 18 February 1994
AFMCI 21-109, Maintenance AF Depot Maintenance Activity Group Facilities and Equipment,
18 May 2009
AFMCI 23-101, Air Force Provisioning Instruction, 30 April 1999
AFMCPAM 63-5, Integrated Master Plan and Schedule Guide, 11 November 2004
AFPAM 63-128, Guide to Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management [when
published]
AFPD 63-1, ACQUISITION AND SUSTAINMENT LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT, 3 April 09
DoDI, 5000.02, Operations of the Defense Acquisition System, 2 December 2008
MIL-HDBK-502 NOT 1, Acquisition Logistics, 20 January 2005 (S/S MIL-STD-1388-1A) This
handbook offers guidance on acquisition logistics as an integral part of the systems engineering
process. The information contained herein is applicable, in part or in whole, to all types of
materiel and automated information systems and all acquisition strategies. To provide more
affordable logistic support for materiel systems the Department of Defense is focusing on total
cost of ownership throughout the life cycle. Achieving affordable support depends upon
effective acquisition logistics management and planning. Section Five of the Handbook
addresses Supportability Analyses.
MIL-PRF-49506, Logistics Management Information, 18 January 2005 (S/S MIL-STD 1388-1B)
This specification describes information required by the government to perform acquisition
logistics management functions. The principle focus of this specification is on providing the
DOD with a contractual method for acquiring support and support-related engineering and
logistics data from contractors. The DOD uses this data in-house in existing DOD materiel
management processes such as those for initial provisioning, cataloging, and item management.
Data products intended primarily for in-house use by the contractor during his/her own design
process or those developed internally by the DOD are beyond the scope of this document.
Depending on specific program requirements, this information may be in the form of summary
reports, a set of specific data products, or both. This specification identifies content
requirements for information summaries and format requirement for data products. It may be
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                                  15


used on all system/end item acquisition programs. The contractor may, and is encouraged to,
suggest alternative means of satisfying requirements of this specification to make information
more readily available and to utilize more efficient business practices. The mechanics of
delivery (e.g., electronic data interchange, hard copy, etc.) are not within the scope of this
specification and should be addressed separately. Data entry media, storage, and maintenance
procedures are left to the contractor.
Title 10, United States Code, Armed Forces:
Section 2460, Definition of Depot-Level Maintenance and Repair: In this context the term
depot-level maintenance and repair means materiel maintenance or repair requiring the overhaul,
upgrading, or rebuilding, or rebuilding of parts, assemblies or subassemblies and the testing and
reclamation of equipment as necessary. It includes all aspects of software maintenance classified
by DOD as of 1 July 1995 as depot-level maintenance and repair, and interim contractor support
(ICS) or contractor logistics support (CLS) to the extent that such support is for the performance
of services described in the preceding sentence.
Section 2464, Core Logistics Capabilities: Obliges DOD to maintain a Core logistics capability
that is Government-owned and Government-operated; including Government personnel and
Government-owned and operated equipment and facilities. Requires Services to establish and
maintain organic capabilities to provide a ready and controlled source of technical competence
and resources necessary to ensure effective and timely response to mobilization, national defense
contingencies or emergencies.
Section 2466, Limitations on the Performance of Depot-Level Maintenance of Materiel: Allows
no more than 50 percent of the funds made available in a given Fiscal Year (FY) to a military
department or defense agency for depot-level maintenance and repair workload to be used to
contract for the performance by non-Federal Government personnel.
Section 2474, Centers of Industrial and Technical Excellence: Designation; Public-Private
Partnerships: Requires Military Departments to designate depot maintenance activities as
Centers of Industrial and Technical Excellence, authorizes and encourages public-private
partnerships, permits performance of work related to core competencies, permits under specified
conditions the use of DOD facilities and equipment by entities outside of DOD, and permits sale
proceeds from public-private partnerships to be credited to depot accounts.

Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFKN—Air Force Knowledge Know
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ALC—Air Logistics Center
AMB—ATS Management Board
AS—Acquisition Sustainment
ATE—Automatic Test Equipment
16                                                ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


ATS—Automatic Test Systems
BA—Budget Authority
CBO—Center Business Office
CDD—Capability Development Document
CLS—Contractor Logistics Support
CoP—Community of Practice
CPP—Capital Purchase Program
CSE—Common Support Equipment
DLR—Depot Level Repairable
DMAP—Depot Maintenance Activation Plans
DMAWG—Depot Maintenance Activation Working Group
DMI—Depot Maintenance Inter-service
DSM—Development System Manager
DSOR—Depot Source of Repair
EMD—Engineering and Manufacturing Development
FRP—Facility Requirements Plan
ICD—Initial Capabilities Document
ICS—Interim Contract Support
IMS—Integrated Master Schedule
IOC—Initial Operational Capability
IPT—Integrated Product Team
JDMAG—Joint Depot Maintenance Activities Group
JLC—Joint Logistics Commanders
LCMP—Life Cycle Management Planning
LCSP—Life Cycle Sustainment Plan
LRIP—Low-Rate Initial Production
MA—Mission Assignment
MAPT—Maintenance Activation Planning Team
MDA—Milestone Decision Authority
MS—Milestone
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                       17


PDR—Preliminary Design Review
PGM—Product Group Manager
PHS&T—Packaging, Handling, Storage & Transportation
PM—Program Manager
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PTO—Preliminary Technical Order
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RLA—Repair Level Analysis review
RMA—Reliability, Maintainability & Availability
SE—Support Equipment
SMR—Source, Maintenance, and Recoverability
SOR—Source of Repair
SPM—System Program Manager
SSM—System Sustainment Manager
SSOR—Strategic Source of Repair
TMCR—Technical Manual Contract Requirement
TOMA—Technical Order Management Agency
TOV—Technical Order Verification
TPSs—Test Program Sets (TPSs)
TRC—Technical Orders
TRC—Technology Repair Center
18                                                    ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


                                            Attachment 2
                                SAMPLE DMAWG CHARTER

              System Name Depot Maintenance Activation Working Group Charter
                                 Initial Charter: Day Month Year
I. Purpose: The purpose of this charter is to establish a Depot Maintenance Activation Working
Group (DMAWG) that will ensure an organic depot maintenance capability is established, in
accordance with public law in a timely and efficient manner. In order to establish government-
controlled capabilities for the depot repair of equipment, it is essential to conduct depot
maintenance activation planning early in the process. This activity is required to ensure funding,
contracting, and delivery of data are accomplished in a timely manner. This data will be used by
agencies making maintenance decisions on Depot Maintenance Activation Plan (DMAP) efforts.
Depot maintenance activation planning must be an orderly and disciplined process for all I.D.
systems or sub-systems requiring depot maintenance resources. The I.D. systems Integrated Life
Cycle Management Plan (ILCMP)/PSMP-SAMP if system is post IOC) and other governance
such as decision documents from the Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) process, Acquisition
Strategy Panel (ASP) decisions and Air Force and Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD)
direction will provide detailed guidance about how, when, and where each repairable item will
be repaired.
II. Authorization: In order to establish depot maintenance planning, the I.D. system Program
Manager (PM) is required to establish a DMAWG (RAFBI 21-101). The I.D. PM’s Squadron
under the authority of the I.D. PM’s Group /CC will organize and chair the I.D. system
DMAWG. The DMAWG is responsible for the systematic and orderly development of an
organic depot maintenance capability
III. Vision: The intent of this charter is to stand up the I.D. system DMAWG with the
overarching goal to achieve organic depot support for the I.D. system, in accordance with public
law (USC Title 10, section 2464) utilizing the support strategies approved in the ILCMP. The
critical timeline determined to best meet the war fighter‘s need has been established as no later
than Day, Month, Year, four years from the I.D. system Initial Operational Capability (IOC)
declaration date of Day, Month, Year. Organic depots will be the Source of Repair (SOR) for all
workload identified as core or the directed source. Non-core depot work will be performed by
the SOR that provides the best value to the I.D. system Program or the directed source. Organic
depot activations will be managed by the DMAWG in accordance with the DMAP.
IV. Controlling Documents:
     Title 10, Section 2464 – the ―Core‖
     Title 10, Section 2466 – the ―50/50‖
     AFI 21-133(I), Joint Depot Maintenance (JDM) Program (Include DMI decision document.)
     AFI 21-102 1994, Depot Maintenance Management
     AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management
     AFI 31-101, Air Force Installation Security Program
     AFPD 63-2, Automatic Test Systems and Equipment
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                            19


   AFMCI 21-101, 1994, Depot Maintenance Activation Planning (DMAP)
   AFMCI 21-109, Air Force Depot Maintenance Activity Group (DMAG) Facilities and
   Equipment
   RAFBI 21-101, Depot Maintenance Activation Planning (DMAP)
V. I.D. system DMAWG Members: that applies
   Organization, I.D. system Sustainment Flight (PM’s organization)
   Organization, User’s MAJCOM as applicable
   Joint Service User
   309 MXW/OB, Ogden ALC
   76 MXW/OB, Oklahoma City ALC
   402 MXW/OB, Warner-Robins ALC
   Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM)
   Global Logistics Support Center/Commodity Council
   Defense Logistics Agency (DLA)
As depicted in the construct, Figure 1, the PM/SSM will act as the DMAWG Chair and provide
direction to the working group members to meet program objectives. The ALC Maintenance
Activation Planning Teams (MAPT) will organize Integrated Product Teams (IPTs) by
commodity in order to comply with direction and provide adequate support. The IPTs will be
comprised of representatives from appropriate product divisions and staff offices. These
commodity IPTs will develop a Depot Maintenance Activation Plan (DMAP) for their assigned
hardware or software. The DMAPs will define the IPT planning and development activities
required for each commodity to include: depot maintenance activation scheduling and budgeting,
workload estimation in direct labor hours, workload repair procedure development, test
procedure development and identification of required support equipment and tooling. The above
efforts will be based on the SORAP and on the technical data provided within the program. Each
IPT will develop and provide required information necessary to support the DMAWG quarterly
meeting agenda to the MAPT Chief. The IPT activity/status will be monitored and reported by
the MAPT Chief at each DMAWG meeting.
20                                                                               ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


 Figure A2-1.

                Program Manager/Single System Manager                               PM/SSM
            Responsibilities; Priorities, Budget, Direction, Planning


                                                                 DLA                                   OEM
                                                               Consustant                            Cunsultant


                             MAPT
     Responsibilities; All repair requirements - Facilities,            OC-ALC      OO-ALC      WR-ALC
      Equipment, Tech Data, Training, Personnel, Etc.                    MAPT        MAPT        MAPT



                            IPT
                                                                         IPT’s       IPT’s       IPT’s
 Responsibilities; Technical Expert - Facilities, Equipment,
          Tech Data, Training, Personnel, Etc.

PT
VI. Assumptions:
     A. Core workload will be accomplished at organic depots using organic resources.
     B. The PM will plan and program initial non-recurring funding necessary to support depot
        activation in accordance with public law. Recurring funds will be provided through the
        normal sustainment process for the program.
     C. PM will provide financial support to planning and programming efforts to include cost
       estimating and budgeting for program requirements.
     D. All contract modifications for procurement of equipment and data are the responsibility of
       PM.
     E. DMAWG membership will be as identified in section V above.
     F. Depot maintenance personnel resources for performing and managing depot maintenance
        work at the ALC will be provided by each ALC.
VII. Responsibilities:
        A. I.D. Organization for PM’s Squadron: Chair the DMAWG, provide input to the HQ
        AMC Program Objective Memorandum (POM) for depot activation, manage procurement
        of support equipment and data, follow all security and contract requirements, schedule (at
        least) quarterly meetings, and address any issues necessary to support depot repair
        capabilities for I.D. system depot reparables as outlined in RAFBI 21-101. Lead the Source
        of Repair Assignment Process (SORAP) effort for the program.
        B. WR-ALC, OC-ALC, and OO-ALC: The MXW/OB represent the needs of their
        respective ALC to the DMAWG. Serve on and/or chair MAPTs to assure activation of the
        depots. Support the SORAP effort for their assigned systems/sub-systems, in accordance
        with the Candidate Depot Determination (CDD) process and the Technical Repair Center
        (TRC) concept. Provide briefing charts for reporting requirements, cost, schedule, and
        performance for depot activation.
                 1. MAPTs: Establish IPTs for each commodity and develop a DMAP to achieve depot
                 activation for each group of reparables, assuring that the requirements of the I.D.
                 system are complied with. This includes, but is not limited to, determining facility
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                                 21


          needs, determining support/test equipment needs, ensuring compliance with security
          requirements, developing training plans and providing skilled manpower as
          appropriate. The DMAP plans will be provided to the DMAWG for approval. The
          MAPTs will brief the status of the approved DMAP plans to the DMAWG at least
          define frequency. The MAPTs, together with the PM will develop statement of work
          task and other contract requirements that ensures procurement of all requirements
          needed to support depot maintenance for assigned workload.
         2. Each IPT will review the associated level of repair recommendations, review and
         monitor the supportability analyses, develop a long-range budget for technical data,
         Support Equipment (SE) and contractor support, assist in SE selection, assist in
         technical data selection and will recommend priorities to best utilize the available
         funding. The IPTs will develop complete initial SORAP and interservice
         requirements, and will facilitate site surveys for their commodity areas.
      C. User’s MAJCOM: Provide user representation and perspective on depot planning,
      identify potential impacts to operational wings, support depot activation POM inputs and
      funding, and provide coordination with required MAJCOM organizations.
      D. Contractors: Participate throughout all DMAWG and MAPT/IPT activities, with the
      exception of internal USAF funding or contractual issues, as determined by the DMAWG
      chair. Develop and execute contract or other implementation documents for their
      allocated commodity areas by defining all requirements necessary to activate the depot.
VIII. Depot Maintenance Activation Plan: A principle product and tool for the I.D. system
DMAWG is the DMAP. The DMAWG is responsible for development and management of the
DMAP. The DMAP depicts the events, resources, and schedules required to achieve a depot
maintenance capability. An overarching I.D. system DMAP will be required for systems and
equipment requiring depot maintenance. The following are the actions required:
   Develop and maintain the overarching DMAP for the program
   Facilitate SOR decisions
   Review activation progress
   Provide a forum for resolution of issues
   Prioritize projects, as needed, to best utilize the available funding
   Assist and champion development of funding requirements for depot support
   Conduct meetings (as required) to facilitate communication and maintain cognizance over
   delivery and depot activation schedules
   Ensure that depot activation actions do not impact the contractors‘ capability to support
   production and interim repair requirements
   Develop ground rules and assumptions for selecting ―pilot projects‖ candidates
   Select ―pilot projects‖
IX. DMAWG Administration: Records will be kept and minutes posted on the Enterprise
Information Management (EIM) location for I.D. System DMAP information. Posting notice and
link will be forwarded to the established distribution list. (Cc: must include WRALC/XPLM
22                                                  ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


SOR Team). All DMAP information will be maintained with a logical taxonomy for direct
access as required by members or staff offices.
X. Charter approval period and update. This Charter will be updated as required but will be
reviewed and approved annually. The Charter will remain in effect until all I.D. System depot
maintenance activation requirements have been accomplished.




NAME
PM’s Group/CC


_______________
Sign & Date




NAME                                NAME                         NAME
402 MXW/OB                          76 MXW/OB                    309 MXW/OB


_______________                     _______________              _______________
Sign & Date                         Sign & Date                  Sign & Date




NAME (Contractor V.P)
Company Name and Division


_______________
Sign & Date
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                               23


                                         Attachment 3
                SAMPLE DEPOT MAINTENANCE ACTIVATION PLAN

                 System Name Depot Maintenance Activation Plan (DMAP)


                                  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY


The System X Depot Maintenance Activation Plan (DMAP) is a consolidated top-level plan that
incorporates an Integrated Master Schedule (IMS) designed to systematically prepare and
introduce all depot level maintenance workload into the designated Air Logistics Centers (ALCs)
or other designated facilities. The activation effort includes standing up system and Depot Level
Reparable (DLR) repair capability and related software maintenance and integration/test
facilities. The DMAP is a living document and will be updated as needed, presented, and
approved at each Depot Maintenance Activation Working Group (DMAWG) meeting and will
be based on funding targets as provided by the Program Manager (PM). The DMAWG Co-
chairs are the approving authorities.


Parties involved in the formulation or review of the DMAP and IMS may include the PM and
functional team, the Air Logistics Center (ALC) Maintenance Wings (MXW), the prime
contractor, joint service and the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA). Detailed activation plans and
schedules, which track activation events down to the depot level repairable (DLR) and associated
requirements to ensure DLR capability at each designated Source of Repair (SOR)
Add brief description of updated information each time the DMAP is updated.


                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS


1.0. PURPOSE…………………………………………………………………………………..


2.0. REQUIREMENTS…………………………………………………………………………


3.0. GUIDING DOCUMENTATION………………………………………………………….


4.0. The Depot Activation Working Group (DMAWG) ………………………………………


5.0. DEPOT MAINTENANCE ACTIVATION WORKING GROUP STRUCTURE…….
24                                                     ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010



6.0. DEPOT MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT CONCEPT …….........................................


7.0. DEPOT ASSESSMENTS PROCESS ………………………………………………...…..


8.0. CORE and 50/50 ……………………………………………………………………………


9.0. ANNUAL WORKLOAD and ACTIVATION SUMMARY SCHEDULE …………….


10. WORKLOAD ESTIMATES AND PRIORITIZATION CRITERIA…………………..


11. WORKLOADS and SCHEDULES………………………………………………………..
       Aircraft Maintenance…...……………………………………………………………...….
       Depot Level Reparables (DLRs)…..………………………………….…………………..
       Software…….…………………………………………………………………………….


12. ROLES AND RESPOSIBILITIES…………………………………………………………


13. ACRONYMS AND TERMS…………………………………………………………..…….


1.0 Purpose:
1.1. The purpose of this plan is to establish organic depot maintenance capability at designated
SOR in a timely and efficient manner in accordance with public law. Advance planning and
preparation identifies funding requirements, delivery of data, and resource (facilities, personnel,
& equipment) acquisitions are complete prior to the introduction of the projected workload.
Depot maintenance activation planning must be an orderly and disciplined process for all DLR
requirements. To standup depot repair support it is essential to develop plans that address the
multiple activities and resources required to stand up depot repair. All personnel involved in
DMAP activities will utilize depot activation plans to direct activities, and quantify the progress
of the depot activation efforts.
1.2. The DMAP is the overarching document that articulates the Program‘s plan to execute the
entire depot activation effort. The actionable element of this plan is the Integrated Master
Schedule (IMS) in Section 11. It presents a graphic overview of the I.D. System Depot
Activation Team‘s vision of the time-phased activation execution effort.
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                               25


1.3. Overall the DMAP:
1.3.1. Charts the course of the Depot Activation Effort.
1.3.2. Supports POM development and other resourcing decisions.
1.3.3. Supports allocation of 30XX BPXX (depot activation) funds.
1.3.4. Presents a consolidated view of the scope, execution effort, and sequence of depot
activation.
2.0. Requirements:
The outcome of the DMAP is a successful capability for all DLR requirements to support
weapon system availability.
2.1. Overall Assumptions:
2.2.1. DMAP will offer the opportunity to comply with Title 10.
2.2.1.1. All workloads have been declared Core candidates and will be assessed.
2.2.1.2. All DLR workloads are scheduled to be assessed and with a workload specific
activation plan developed for approved workloads NLT IOC plus 4 years.
2.2.. All planned, implemented, and funded Depot Maintenance workload established under the
requirements set forth in the Integrated Life Cycle Management (ILCM) Plan.
2.2.3. Detailed workload specific activation plans will supplement the DMAP as required for
approved workloads.
2.2.4. The PM will plan and program initial non-recurring funding necessary to support depot
activation in accordance with public law. Recurring funds will be available through the normal
sustainment process for the program.
2.2.5. The PM governance will provide financial support to planning and programming efforts,
to include cost estimating and budgeting for program requirements.
2.2.6. Via the Maintenance Activation Planning Team (MAPT), each affected ALC will provide
depot maintenance personnel for performing and managing depot activation at the designated
SOR.
2.2.7. The DMAP IMS is a living document, updated and reported at each DMAWG.
3.0. Guiding Documentation:
       Title 10, Section 2464 – the ―Core‖
       Title 10, Section 2466 – the ―50/50‖
       AFI 21-133(I), Joint Depot Maintenance (JDM) Program
       AFI 21-102 1994, Depot Maintenance Management
       AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management
26                                                                               ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


           AFMCI 21-101, 1994, Depot Maintenance Activation Planning (DMAP)
           RAFBI 21-101, Depot Maintenance Activation Planning (DMAP)
4.0. The Depot Activation Working Group (DMAWG): Activation of Air Force Depots is
     governed by AFMC 21-101. IAW that instruction, the PM, organized a Depot Maintenance
     Activation Working Group (DMAWG) and issued a DMAWG charter to govern all depot
     activation. The DMAWG Charter, signed by the Leadership of each Core Member and the
     ALC Commander establishes the organization and vision for activating repair capability in
     ALC depots. The DMAWG is responsible for systematic and orderly development of a
     depot maintenance capability to support the projected workload in the peak years.
     Accordingly, the DMAWG will manage depot activations with detail defined all applicable
     program documents as listed.
      Insert list of applicable documents.
5.0. Depot Maintenance Activation Working Group (DMAWG) Structure
      IAW the DMAWG Charter the following organization is to manage depot activations.




              Program Manager/Sustainment System Manager                             PM/SSM
            Responsibilities; Priorities, Budget, Direction, Planning


                                                                 DLA                                    OEM
                                                               Consustant                             Cunsultant


                             MAPT
     Responsibilities; All repair requirements - Facilities,            OC-ALC       OO-ALC      WR-ALC
      Equipment, Tech Data, Training, Personnel, Etc.                    MAPT         MAPT        MAPT



                            IPT
                                                                         IPT’s        IPT’s       IPT’s
 Responsibilities; Technical Expert - Facilities, Equipment,
          Tech Data, Training, Personnel, Etc.




           The DMAWG established Maintenance Activation Planning Teams (MAPTs) consisting
           of MAPT Chiefs at the three depots and consultants from the Original Equipment
           Manufacturer and DLA. The ALC MAPT Chiefs are the Single Point of Contact for all
           ALC requirements. The MAPTs set up and manage individual Integrated Product Teams
           (IPTs) which are responsible for planning and standing up each workload in the depot
           identified in the Depot Source of Repair process (DSOR) for the subject workload. The
           MAPT IPTs will consist of a matrix of depot and contractor personnel.
6.0 Depot Maintenance and Support Concept
           Include summary as defined by the system/component ILCM/PSMP/SAMP (i.e., CSWS,
           Organic, Partnering, TSPR, Etc.)
7.0. Depot Assessments Process
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                                27


Three Step Approach – Joint Team Developed
       Technical Review
           Engineering Review of DLRs, drawings, specs, processes
           Identification of equipment, facilities, data needed
           Gap Analysis against existing ALC capability
           Define activation requirements
       Management Review
           Roles and responsibilities of the partners
           Parts flow and routing, engineering, support, etc.
           Maintenance Concept
           Business structure
       Workload Analysis
           Quantify expected depot workload
           Estimates for ALC activation and reoccurring Ops
       Consider qualitative factors
           Title 10, Technology Insertion etc
Steps run concurrently, iteratively, cross flow of information
8.0 CORE and 50/50
   It is a goal of the Activation and Sustainment program to assist the USAF in meeting Core
   and USAF 50/50 public/private workload requirements for the Government depots. The
   MAPT will present best value recommendations to the PM who is responsible for the final
   decisions for each workload. The system‘s Core designation and strategic benefit adds a
   weighted factor in determining best value.
   Include Core Hours
   Include 50/50 breakout
9. Annual Workload and Activation Summary Schedule
   The following charts show the forecasted depot workload and the top-level activation
   schedule for each. The detailed schedule breakdown in the schedules section.
                                            Add Chart;
                Forecast Depot Workload Hours by Technology Group and SOR
                                            Add Chart;
           Forecast Depot Cost (Labor and Material by Technology Group and SOR
                                            Add Chart;
                       Summary Schedule by Technology Group and SOR
28                                                      ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


10. Workload Estimates and Prioritization Criteria:
The primary criteria utilized to prioritize the activation schedule are:
     Systems with the most work
     Impact to Title 10 – Core (hours) & 50/50 (dollars)
     Funded and unfunded
     Improvements to repair cycle time
The DLRs are grouped by SORAP categories and divided into manageable assessment groups
and then ranked by projected workload projected to a steady state (force structure and flying
hour) and out year requirements profile. The DLRs then get screened/filtered for non-workload
reasons that affect prioritization.
The screening/filtering criteria are:
     Funded and unfunded
     Preferred spares
     Modification planned
     Superseded part numbers
     System stability
     Similarity to existing depot repair capability
     SE complexity
     Facilities investment requirements
     Significant training requirements/Repair complexity
     IMS requirements/status
     DMS issues
     Design Maturity
     Supplier Analysis
     Production Impacts
Then the resulting groups are sequenced for Title 10 impact.
Finally, the groups are prioritized by the availability of resources to complete the activations:
funding targets, personnel availability and the ability to manage assessments and activation.
11. WORKLOADS and SCHEDULES Consist primarily of Aircraft Maintenance, Depot
Level Repairable and Software (of whatever technology groupings make up the program)
11.1 Aircraft Maintenance
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                               29


This workload involves activation of the depot for performing air vehicle modifications,
inspections, and repairs, which require significant aircraft downtime.
Workload Capability and Capacity:
Express in terms of required Capability and Capacity to support the projected peek year
schedule.
Schedule:
Insert IMS
11.2. Depot Level Reparables (DLRs)
Each DLR will undergo an assessment performed by the MAPT to determine the most efficient
way to establish repair capability at the government depot. They will be assessed in like groups
in order to minimize the total time and the costs of performing the assessments. The MAPT will
present a best value case to the DMAWG as a concluding action of each assessment. The PM
decides whether to proceed with activation of the workload at the government depot.
Workload Capability and Capacity:
Express in terms of required Capability and Capacity to support the projected peek year
schedule.
Schedule:
Insert IMS
11.3. Software Maintenance
Insert brief description and maintenance strategy
Workload Capability and Capacity:
Express in terms of required Capability and Capacity to support the projected peek year
schedule.
Schedule:
Insert IMS
12. Roles and Responsibilities:
Program Manager (PM)—The DODD 5000.01 designated individual with responsibility for
and authority to accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to
meet the user‗s operational needs. PM for sub-systems shall support overall system objectives as
required by the SPM. The PM for acquisition programs shall be accountable for credible cost,
schedule, performance, and materiel readiness to the MDA. ACAT I, ACAT IA, and ACAT II
PM shall be chartered by the SAE and the PEO. Delegated ACAT II and III PM shall be
chartered by the PEO or DAO. The PM for sustainment programs shall be accountable for
30                                                    ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


credible cost, schedule, performance, and materiel readiness to the AFMC/CC or designee. (63-
101).
Functional Support —The PM leads the program organization in executing the mission. Each
functional representative within the program, irrespective of location or whether that person
supports the program on a full-time or part-time basis, should report to and take program
direction through the PM. Functional staffs external to the program office are not accountable
for program execution; they are responsible for providing trained human resources and advice to
the PM. When applicable, the PM shall include the following positions when documenting the
execution chain of authority. Other functional positions may be included at the PM‗s discretion.

MAPT Chiefs—Single Point of Contact for all ALC requirements and Co-Chairs the
assessments and activations with the other core members. Provides DLR assessment and
activation schedule input. Coordinates resources and assimilates depot requirements from the
ALCs for support of the assessment and activations.

MAPT—Oversees the assessment and activation processes for all the workloads at a specific
ALC. The team consists of the MAPT chief of the respective ALC and OEM Lead.

MAPT IPT—A joint ALC/Integrated Product Team which performs individual workload
assessments and activations
System Sustainment Manager (SSM) —The SSM is an individual with functional
responsibility for the sustainment portion of a system‗s life cycle and in support of a PM. SSM
responsibilities may include product support integration. Product support integration consists of
integrating the activities of the product support providers as well as intra-system and inter-
system integration with supporting systems, subsystems, end-items, components and facilities.
Participate in the DLR schedule development and revision processes. Participate in assessments
and activations as desired to ensure consistency with program strategy and objectives.
Development System Manager (DSM)—The DSM is an individual with functional
responsibility for the development portion of a system‗s life cycle and in support of a PM.
Chief/Lead Engineer—The Chief/Lead Engineer is the PM‗s designated technical authority in
the disciplined execution of the Systems Engineering (SE) process, including development of the
Systems Engineering Plan (SEP). The Chief/Lead Engineer is responsible to the PM to establish,
implement, manage, and control SE activities necessary to develop and field robust products and
systems that exhibit attributes of system security, Operational Safety, Suitability, and
Effectiveness (OSS&E), and Mission Assurance.
ALC Management – Approves ALC participation and actions and supplies resources for
assessment and activation processes. Ensures timelines for these activities are achieved.
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                                                          31


Other Functional Support— Other functional support consists of individuals performing
program execution activities in support of a PM. This includes, but is not limited to,
engineering, financial management, contracting, legal review and analysis, logistics,
sustainment, intelligence, test, and project management.

13. ACRONYMS AND TERMS

Insert Here
32                                                                                        ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


                                                                         Attachment 4
                                        SAMPLE STATUS TRACKING SUMMARY


                                                                                                                                       Peak   Peak                     Activation Activation
                                                                                                                                       Rep     Rep      Peak              Date      Date
  Syste m   SORAP #                                   Configuration Ite m                   Part Numbe r            NSN                Gens   Hours   Rep Year   IOC    Planned    Actual
C-130 AMP   06-008-01   AN/APN-241 Low Powe r Color Radar (LPCR) Syste m
C-130 AMP   06-008-01   Antenna                                                             825R770G02      5985-01-537-8120LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-01   Upconverter LRM                                                     825R660G01      5963-01-535-9919LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-01   Antenna Power Supply (APS)                                          825R690G01      5963-01-536-5658LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-01   Low Voltage PS (LVPS)                                               825R700G01      5963-01-535-3957LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-01   Antenna Processor, Interface LRM                                    825R740G02      5998-01-534-9875LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-01   Synchronizer LRM                                                    825R750G02      5998-01-534-0279LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-01   Input Buffer/Pulse Control Unit LRM                                 825R714G01      5998-01-534-0604LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-01   Wired Chassis LRM                                                   825R730G02      5975-01-537-0133LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-01   Dual Function Processor LRM                                         825R720G01      5998-01-534-0288LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-01   Receiver LRM                                                        825R680G02      5821-01-534-3873LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-02   Multi-mode Receiver (MMR)                                           822-1591-001    5821-01-534-3872LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-03   Inte rphone Communication Syste m (ICS)
C-130 AMP   06-008-03   Comm/Nav Control Panel (CNCP)                                       599-4000-001    5826-10-534-3861LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-03   Interface Control Unit (ICU)                                        599-3200-001    5895-01-534-2506LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-03   Control Audio Panel (CAP)                                           599-1300-001    5895-01-534-0561LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-04   VHF Logic Control Unit (LCU)                                       7-163PIN160HT    5895-01-534-8070LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-05   MIL GPS Digital Anti-jamming Receiver (DAR)                          6545601-100    5821-01-534-3868LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-06   Satellite Receiver/Transmitter (SRT)                                822-1348-001    5821-01-534-3602LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-07   Aircraft Interface Unit (AIU)                                         450SUE1-1     5895-01-995-4280LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-08   Mission Proce ssor (MP)
C-130 AMP   06-008-08   MP Cabinet                                                           180704-001     5975-01-536-7569LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-08   General Processor Module                                             180720-001     5998-01-535-0803LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-08   Input/Output Module                                                  180736-001     5998-01-534-0282LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-08   Digital Map Module                                                   180772-001        NCC 636344
C-130 AMP   06-008-08   Ethernet Switch Module                                               180784-001     5998-01-534-3610LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-08   Overlay Video Module                                                 180738-001     5998-01-534-3608LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-08   Video Input Module                                                   180760-001     5998-01-534-3609LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-08   Power Supply Module                                                   99-2535-1     6130-01-535-4268LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-09   Engine Interface Unit (EIU)                                         451SUE1-1-01    5895-99-133-6399LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-10   Syste m Mass Me mory (SMM)
C-130 AMP   06-008-10   Processor, File Server                                                501972-1      7025-01-534-5190LG
C-130 AMP   06-008-10   Cartridge, Disk Magnetic                                              501891-1      7045-01-534-5191LG
C-130 AMP    06-071                         Software Configuration Ite m (SWCI)                CPIN            De scription
                                                                                          81A-C130AMP/CT-     Combat Talon Unique
C-130 AMP    06-071     C-130 AMP Special Operations (SOF)-Unique Computer SCIs (CSCIs)       Fsss-nnA                      (CTU)
                                                                                                81D-
                                                                                           C130AMP/GDF-            Gunship Display
C-130 AMP    06-071                                                                           Fsss-nnA            Formatting (GDF)

                                                                                          81A-C130AMP/GU-
C-130 AMP    06-071                                                                           Fsss-nnA      Gunship U (GU) Unique

                                                                                          81A-C130AMP/GH-
C-130 AMP    06-071                                                                           Fsss-nnA      Gunship H (GH) Unique
             06-071
                                                                                                81B-            Standalone Airborne
                                                                                          C130AMP/SCAM-           Correlator Module
C-130 AMP    06-071                                                                           Fsss-nnA                     (SCAM)
                                                                                          81F-C130AMP/TF-
C-130 AMP    06-071                                                                           Fsss-nnA        Terrain Following (TF)
                                                                                                81V-        Tactical MFD Real Time
                                                                                          C130AMP/TMFD-      Support System (TMFD
C-130 AMP    06-071                                                                           Fsss-nnA                        RTSS)
                                                                Date Req by SOR
                            Task Description                     Avg Lead Time     Funded   EDD   Received
Partnership Agreement                                             3 to 6 months
Implementation Agreement                                         6 to 12 months
Special Test Equipment Requirements
  STE Decision and Direction                                     18 to 24 months
  STE Modification/Augmentation//Purchase                        12 to 18 months
  Deliver STE                                                     60 to 90 days
  Finalize STE Support./Warranty Support                         90 to 180 days
  STE Certification of Modifications/Augmentations/Purchase       30 to 60 days
Test Program Set (TPS) Development
  Conduct Test Program Development                               12 to 18 months
  Final Acceptance (Validate and Verify) Procedures by WR-ALC       30 days
  Procedures Accepted by WR-ALC                                   15 to 30 days
Spares
  Provisioning Conference                                        12 to 18 months
  Parts Layin                                                     3 to 6 months
                                                                                                                                                                ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010




Support Equipment (SE)
  Conduct SE Gap Analysis                                        18 to 24 months
  Identify/Procure SE Delta                                      12 to 18 months
  Deliver support equipment                                       60 to 90 days
  Finalize SE Support./Warranty Support                          90 to 180 days
                                                                                                                                                 Attachment 5




  SE Certification of Modifications/Augmentations/Purchase        30 to 60 days
Technical Publications
  Technical Manual Contract Requirement (TMCR)                   12 to 18 months
  Deliver Technical Publications to ALC                             60 days
Training
  Conduct Course                                                  30 to 60 days
Engineering Support
  OEM Provide Engineering Support                                  12 months
    Conduct Preliminary First Acticle Repair                      30 to 60 days
                                                                                                             SAMPLE INTEGRATED MASTER SCHEDULE




    Certify Support Element Ready for ALC Repair Capability       30 to 60 days
  First Article Repair
    V&V First Article Repair                                      15 to 30 days
 WR-ALC Certified as Source of Repair                                0 days
                                                                                                                                                                33
SORAP 99-011A-5 Planning and Implementation Block 10 Electrical PDC - (WR-ALC)
                                                                       570 days    9-Jul-08    20-Oct-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          34


 Implementation Agreement (IA) Complete
 Special Test Equipment Requirements                                   449 days   10-Nov-08     2-Sep-10
   Create Gap Analysis Report - PDC LRU                                80 days     5-Jan-09    24-Apr-09
   Receive VDATS Gap Analysis Report                                   0 days     24-Apr-09    24-Apr-09         ◊ 24 Apr 09
   STE Decision and Direction                                          60 days    27-Apr-09     21-Jul-09
   STE Modification/Augmentation//Purchase                             220 days    22-Jul-09    9-Jun-10
   Deliver STE Technical Data                                          1 day      10-Jun-10    10-Jun-10
   Finalize STE Support./Warranty Support                              9 days     11-Jun-10    23-Jun-10
   STE Certification of Modifications/Augmentations/Purchase           50 days    24-Jun-10     2-Sep-10
 AFT LRU Test Program Set (TPS) Development                            320 days    2-Mar-09     9-Jun-10
   Aft PDC UUT                                                         16 mons      1-Jul-09   11-Oct-10
   Conduct Test Program Development                                    268 days    9-Mar-09     2-Apr-10
   Final Acceptance (Validate and Verify) Procedures by WR-ALC         44 days     5-Apr-10     4-Jun-10
   Procedures Accepted by WR-ALC                                       0 days      4-Jun-10     4-Jun-10                                                                ◊ 4 Jun 10
 FWD LRU Test Program Set (TPS) Development                            541 days     9-Jul-08    9-Sep-10
   Forward PDC UUT                                                     17 mons     1-Jun-09     7-Oct-10
   Develop Test Program Development                                    261 days   22-Apr-09     7-May-10
   Final Acceptance (Validate and Verify) Procedures by WR-ALC         43 days    10-May-10      9-Jul-10
   Procedures Accepted by WR-ALC                                       0 days       9-Jul-10     9-Jul-10                                                                    ◊ 9 Jul 10
 Support Equipment (SE)                                                390 days   12-Dec-08     12-Jul-10
   Conduct SE Gap Analysis                                             45 days    18-Mar-09    19-May-09
   Identify/Procure SE Delta                                           240 days   20-May-09     6-May-10
   Provide SE Information and Training                                 45 days     7-May-10     12-Jul-10
 Technical Publications                                                254 days     9-Jul-09    15-Jul-10
   Technical Manual Contract Requirement (TMCR)                        0 days       9-Jul-09     9-Jul-09                     ◊ 9 Jul 09
   Issue DAC PDC Technical Order (TO) Number Assignment                1 day        9-Jul-09     9-Jul-09
   Produce General Equipment and System                                115 days    10-Jul-09   22-Dec-09
     Develop New Text                                                  60 days     10-Jul-09    2-Oct-09
     Revise Text                                                       35 days     5-Oct-09    20-Nov-09
   Develop Fault Isolation - New Text                                  15 days    23-Nov-09    15-Dec-09
   Develop IPB - New Text                                              30 days    16-Dec-09     4-Feb-10
   Develop IPB - New Figures                                           50 days     5-Feb-10    15-Apr-10
   Produce Wire/Schematic Diagrams                                     8 days     16-Apr-10    27-Apr-10
   Perform Tech Order Validation and Verification (TOVV) (Govt Task)   40 days    28-Apr-10    23-Jun-10
   Produce Pre-Publication Comments Incorporation                      10 days    24-Jun-10      8-Jul-10
   Deliver Technical Publications to ALC                               5 days       9-Jul-10    15-Jul-10
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sample Integrated Master Schedule – Critical Path




 Training                                                              176 days   23-Nov-09    10-Aug-10
   Type 1 - Produce Training Syllabus and Courseware                   20 days    23-Nov-09    22-Dec-09
   Type 1 - Instructor Preparation                                     20 days    23-Dec-09    28-Jan-10
   Type 1 - Conduct Preliminary Course                                 40 days    29-Jan-10    25-Mar-10
   Type 4 - Produce Training Syllabus and Courseware                   30 days    26-Mar-10     6-May-10
   Type 4 - Instructor Preparation                                     30 days     7-May-10    18-Jun-10
   Type 4 - Conduct Course                                             36 days    21-Jun-10    10-Aug-10
 Engineering Support                                                   271 days    1-Sep-09     1-Oct-10
   NGC Provide Engineering Support AFT LRU                             132 days   29-Mar-10     1-Oct-10
     Conduct Preliminary First Acticle Repair                          20 days    11-Aug-10     8-Sep-10
     Certify Support Element Ready for ALC Repair Capability           17 days     9-Sep-10     1-Oct-10
   NGC Provide Engineering Support FWD LRU                             114 days   29-Mar-10     7-Sep-10
     Conduct Preliminary First Acticle Repair                          20 days     16-Jul-10   12-Aug-10
     Certify Support Element Ready for ALC Repair Capability           17 days    13-Aug-10     7-Sep-10
   First Article Repair                                                28 days     8-Sep-10    15-Oct-10
     V&V First Article Repair                                          28 days     8-Sep-10    15-Oct-10
       AFT PDC LRU Complete (#1)                                       10 days     8-Sep-10    21-Sep-10    Tim e Now
       Forward PDC LRU Complete (#1)                                   10 days     4-Oct-10    15-Oct-10
   WR-ALC Certified as PDC Source of Repair SORAP 99-011A-5 3 days                18-Oct-10    20-Oct-10                CY2009 Contract Award   CY2010 Contract Award                     20 Oct 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010
ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010                       35


                     Attachment 6 – MAPT Assessment

                        Center Performance Review
                36                                                            ROBINSAFBI21-111 5 JANUARY 2010


                                                              Attachment 7
                          SAMPLE DEPOT LEVEL REPAIRABLE/LEGACY ACTIVATION PLAN

                                    System Name Depot Implementation Plan
                                                                                                              As of: MMDD
NSN's:
6610-01-501-3600
6610-01-501-3601
6610-01-502-0350                                                      Notional time line
                                     Start    Stop     FY08    FY09    FY10      FY11    FY12   FY13   FY14    FY15    FY16   FY17
Background
SORAP (05-018)                       Jan 05   Feb 08
Sorap Decision (WR-ALC)                       Feb 08
DMI (08-0010)                        Feb 08   Oct 08
DSOR Decision
Initial activation Plan              Feb 09
Submit Plan to AFMC/A4               Feb 09


Milestones
Requirements Planning/ID          Feb 09      Feb 11
 - Manpower                       Feb 09      Feb 11
 - Facilities                     Feb 09      Feb 11
 - Tech Data Rights               Feb 09      Feb 11
 - Training                       Feb 09      Feb 11
 - Depot Spares ROM's             Feb 09      Feb 11
Funding (Enter Planned/Actual $ by FY)                  $$      $$       $$      $$      $$     $$      $$      $$      $$     $$
 - POM for Funding                Sep 09                $$      $$       $$      $$      $$     $$      $$      $$      $$     $$
 - Receive funding FY12-14           FY12     FY14
Begin Depot Activation Activities    FY12     FY14
Complete Activation                  FY15     FY17




.
