BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                        35-105

                                                                              1 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                   Public Affairs

                                                    HONORARY COMMANDERS PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 78 ABW/PA                                                         Certified by: 78 ABW/PA
                                                                            (Mr Richard Brewer)
                                                                                         Pages: 6


This instruction implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 35-105,
Section K-Community Participation, paragraphs 45.2.5 and 45.2.6. This instruction describes
the procedures to be followed for the Robins AFB Honorary Commander’s Program. This
RAFBI applies to all base participants in the Team Robins Honorary Commanders Program.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR), using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change Publication; route
AF IMT 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the     Air     Force      Records     Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)      located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

1. Overview: Team Robins is committed to developing, promoting and maintaining its long-
standing positive and productive relations with key community leaders in the Middle Georgia
area. This program’s objective is to provide these leaders greater exposure to the Robins AFB
mission, and to the roles the installation and its people play in supporting our nation’s defense.
2. Program Goals
  2.1. Increase public awareness and understanding of the Robins AFB mission.
  2.2. Build stronger relationships with members of the local community and encourage them
  to share the Robins AFB story.
3. Nominees
 2                                                    ROBINSAFBI35-105 1 OCTOBER 2012


     3.1. The intent of an Honorary Commanders Program is to educate those with limited
     knowledge about DoD and the installation.
     3.2. Civilian participants will be selected among non-federal appointed or elected officials,
     mayors, chamber of commerce members, principals of local schools, Military Affairs
     Committee members and others who, because of their position or influence in the
     community, have a positive impact on public support for the base.
     3.3. Nominees should not be an immediate relative (spouse, child, parent, sibling) of a
     current or former Honorary Commander unless they are bona fide civic leaders in their own
     right. However, relatives should not serve concurrently as honorary commanders.
     3.4. Nominees should not be a military or civilian retiree because the program aims at
     orienting community members with limited knowledge of today’s military.
     3.5. No more than one nominee from any individual organization should serve as an
     Honorary Commander in any given year, with the exception of the various Chambers of
     Commerce or Military Affairs Committees. Examples of organizations that should only have
     one representative to the program include individual schools or businesses.
     3.6. Nominees can work in a media-related field, but cannot be a newspaper, TV or radio
     reporter due to the conflict of interest allowing reporters unescorted access to the base and
     base leadership.
4. Selection Process
     4.1. Recommendations for Honorary Commanders will be solicited from local chambers of
     commerce, outogoing Honorary Commanders and base participants.
     4.2. Nominations will be collected and maintained by the Public Affairs Office’s
     Community Relations Division.
     4.3. The Public Affairs Office will provide the Installation Commander with recommended
     pairings. Where possible, 78 ABW/PA will align nominees with a base organization which
     parallels the Honorary Commander’s trade background or interest.
     4.4. The Installation Commander will have final selection and pairing authority.
     4.5. Honorary Commanders will serve for a period of two years. Should new Honorary
     Commanders be selected during an off year, those Honorary Commanders will serve a one-
     year term so as not to disrupt the two-year rotation. Upon completion of the two-year term,
     Honorary Commanders will enter into an alumni status – only immediate past Honorary
     Commanders serve as alumni.
     4.6. The Honorary Commander will be provided an application for membership in the
     Robins AFB Club, which will enable him or her to use the facility for personal and family
     dining, and entertainment. Membership is $18 a month. The 78 ABW/PA will issue the
     honorary commander a base pass and coordinate club membership applications. Honorary
     Commanders can also join the Pine Oaks Golf Course.
     4.7. Honorary Commanders can be removed from the program early if there is little or no
     activity between the Honorary Commander and his or her counterpart. Removal is at the
     discretion of the Installation Commander.
5. Program Management
ROBINSAFBI35-105 1 OCTOBER 2012                                                               3


   5.1. The 78 ABW/PA has primary responsibility for the overall management of the program.
   5.2. An Honorary Commanders’ Induction Ceremony will be conducted every two years.
   When warranted, an induction ceremony will be held during the off year.
   5.3. When possible, a Team Robins-wide event, such as a golf tournament or luau, will be
   conducted to strengthen camaraderie and build esprit de corps among Honorary Commanders
   and their installation counterparts.
   5.4. The 78 ABW/PA will work with 78 ABW Protocol to ensure all Honorary Commanders
   are invited to those base events which warrant a vast number of community attendees such as
   holiday parties and key unit changes of command.
   5.5. The 78 ABW/PA will maintain the current and immediate past Honorary Commanders
   list and ensure it is kept current with addresses, telephone numbers and email addresses. All
   personal data will be labeled and stored in accordance with the requirements of the Privacy
   Act of 1974 and related Air Force management procedures.
6. Commander Responsibilities
   6.1. Wing and wing equivalent commanders, group and group equivalent commanders, and
   command chiefs will be assigned an honorary commander.
   6.2. Commanders will maintain regular contact with their honorary commander via an
   orientation and invitations to events within their units.
   6.3. If a change of command occurs during the Honorary Commander’s tenure, ensure
   incoming commander is briefed on the program and that a meet and greet session with the
   honorary commander is scheduled.
   6.4. Notify 78 ABW/PA of any problems with the Honorary Commander.
   6.5. Commanders shall strictly comply with the Joint Ethics Regulation, Section 2, Ethical
   Conduct for Employees of the Department of the Defense, which addresses gifts from outside
   sources. Commanders should also consult with 78 ABW/JA if unsure about the
   appropriateness of a particular gift under the JER.
   6.6. Provide a semi-annual report to 78 ABW/PA of Honorary Commander’s involvement in
   respective unit’s events. (See Attachment 2)




                                           MITCHEL H BUTIKOFER, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 4                                                 ROBINSAFBI35-105 1 OCTOBER 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Responsibilities and Management, 8 September 2010
AFI 35-105, Community Relations, 26 January 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW—Air Base Wing
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Base Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
DoD—Department of Defense
IMT—Information Management Tool
JA—Judge Advocate
JER—Joint Ethics Regulation
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Public Affairs
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TV—Television

Terms
Alumni:—A past participant in the Honorary Commanders Program.
Appointed Official:—An individual who resides in a position by, through, or as a result of an
appointment.
Camaraderie:—Mutual trust and friendship among participants of the Honorary Commanders
Program.
Chamber of Commerce—: An association comprised of people in business to promote the
commercial interests of an area.
Community Relations Division:—The division of the Office of Public Affairs that provides
oversight, policy and guidance to the Honorary Commanders Program.
Elected Official:—An individual who is chosen for a position by vote.
ROBINSAFBI35-105 1 OCTOBER 2012                                                              5


Esprit de corps:—A feeling of pride, fellowship and loyaly shared by members of the Honorary
Commanders Program.
Honorary Commander:—A community civilian member from within the Middle Georgia area
who has limited knowledge about the Department of Defense and Robins AFB.
Middle Georgia:—The central part of the state extending approximately 20 miles north, south,
east and west of Robins AFB.
Military Affairs Committee:—A sub organization of a chamber of commerce responsible for
maintaining a strong relationship with local military representatives and working to ensure the
military receives the support it needs from the local business community.
Nominee:—The name of community member provided by the chamber of commerce or the
sitting honorary commander to fill the position of an honorary commander.
Team Robins—: Encompasses the 78 ABW and the major associate units on Robins AFB.
 6                                                    ROBINSAFBI35-105 1 OCTOBER 2012


                                          Attachment 2
FORMAT FOR HONORARY COMMANDERS PROGRAM SEMI-ANNUAL REPORT

Figure A2.1. Format for Honorary Commanders Program Semi-Annual Report
     UNIT NAME:

     DATE OF REPORT:

     A. DATE       EVENT DESCRIPTION                HONORARY COMMANDER ROLE


     1.


     2.


     3.


     B. List events honorary commander invited to, but was unable to attend. Include the date of
     the event.

     C. POC and telephone number for this report.
