BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                        63-104

                                                                                    3 MAY 2012

                                                                                      Acquisition

                                                          CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: WR-ALC/ENS                                                       Certified by: WR-ALC/EN
                                                                      (Mr. Jorge Gonzalez, SES)
Supersedes:    ROBINSAFBI63-104,                                                      Pages: 39
               18 August 2008


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 63-1, Capability-Based
Acquisition System, AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management, and AFI 63-1201, Life
Cycle Systems Engineering. This Robins Air Force Base Instruction (RAFBI) establishes
policies, procedures, and responsibilities for effective and consistent configuration management
(CM) of weapon system hardware and software. This RAFBI applies to all military, civilian, and
contractor personnel assigned or attached to the Warner Robins Air Logistics Center (WR-ALC)
with responsibility for supporting Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E) on
WR-ALC managed systems, subsystems, end-items and components. This includes Robins AFB
tenant organizations to include other Air Logistics Centers, Test Centers, Air Force Global
Logistics Support Centers (AFGLSC), or Product Centers. This publication specifically
establishes a structure for managing change from requirement documentation through
system/item disposal. The process is designed to apply generically and defines the change
approval authorities and change coordination/notifications requirements for any configuration
change relative to the item traceability and impacts to higher level assemblies. This publication
provides a structure for different types of configuration reviews and approvals, and provides
specific guidance with regard to the type and amount of documentation required for each. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records         Disposition         Schedule        (RDS)        located      at
 2                                                                               ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes in this
revision of RAFBI 63-104 are extensive and the document must be reviewed in its entirety. The
title has changed from Configuration Control Board (CCB) to Configuration Management
because of the change in scope of the document to encompass CM processes, of which CCB is a
subset. Previous revisions of this local publication provided additional guidance, but were
focused primarily on system level configuration changes (i.e. aircraft modifications) and the
administration of a single CCB event. The current publication recognizes that configuration
changes in the sustainment phase of a weapon system occur at many levels in the system
hierarchy and across many organizations responsible for the management of items at the
subsystem and component level. A structured and disciplined approach to such widespread
change is necessary to ensure such changes are reviewed and approved by competent and
cognizant authorities such that unintended consequences do not manifest at the system level.

Chapter 1—GENERAL                                                                                                                 3
       1.1.   Recognizing the diversity and complexity of items managed…………………… ............ 3

Chapter 2—CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW                                                                                       4
       2.1.   CM- is essential to the systems engineering process. ............................................                   4
Figure 2.1.   DoD CM Process Model – Overview ....................................................................                4
       2.2.   CM Life Cycle Planning and Management. ...........................................................                  5
       2.3.   Configuration Identification. ..................................................................................    5
       2.4.   Configuration Change Management. .....................................................................              6
       2.5.   Configuration Status Accounting. ..........................................................................         9
       2.6.   Configuration Verification & Audit. ......................................................................          9

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                   10

Attachment 2—TRAINING TEMPLATE                                                                                                   19

Attachment 3—CONFIGURATION CHANGE MANAGEMENT PROCESS                                                                             20

Attachment 4—WR-ALC MASTER CCB CHECKLIST INSTRUCTIONS                                                                            34
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                                   3



                                          Chapter 1

                                         GENERAL

1.1. Recognizing the diversity and complexity of items managed and the organizations
managing them,- this instruction defines the overarching configuration management (CM)
process to be applied across Robins AFB. This document enhances the understanding of
configuration management and assists organizations in applying configuration management to
their programs. It documents the CM process from requirement generation to system/item
disposal; a process which shall be used for any change, at any level in the system hierarchy. It
defines the roles, responsibilities, and authorities for reviewing and approving changes based
objectively on the impact of the change and engineering authority.
 4                                                          ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


                                           Chapter 2

                     CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW

2.1. CM- is essential to the systems engineering process. It allows for the systematic
development of systems, subsystems, and configuration items. ANSI/EIA-649 defines CM ―as a
management process for establishing and maintaining consistency of a product’s performance,
functional, and physical attributes with its requirements, design and operational information
throughout its life.‖
     2.1.1. MIL-HDBK-61, defines five major CM functions:
     2.1.2. CM Life Cycle Planning and Management – Plan and manage the CM process and
     provide for monitoring and improving the CM processes.
     2.1.3. Configuration Identification – Identify and document the function and physical
     characteristics of configuration items.
     2.1.4. Configuration Change Management – Control changes to configuration items and
     their related documentation.
     2.1.5. Configuration Status Accounting – Record and report information needed to manage
     configuration items effectively, including the status of proposed changes and implementation
     status of approved changes.
     2.1.6. Configuration Verification & Audit - Audit configuration items to verify conformance
     to specification, drawings, interface documents and other contractual requirements.
     2.1.7. Maximum benefit from the CM process is assured when the five functions work
     together throughout the product life cycle.

Figure 2.1. DoD CM Process Model – Overview
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                                     5


2.2. CM Life Cycle Planning and Management. CM Life Cycle Planning and Management is
essential for the configuration management process. A good configuration management program
ensures that designs are traceable to requirements, that change is controlled and documented, that
interfaces are defined and understood, and that there is consistency between the product and its
supporting documentation. Planning should include the organizational and functional structure
that defines the methods and procedures used to manage and control functional and physical
characteristics, interfaces, and documents of the system and its components. It includes
statements of responsibility and authority, methods of control, methods of audit or verification,
milestones, and schedules. The end result of this effort is an effective Configuration
Management Plan (CMP). The CMP is prepared to ensure that all program participants clearly
understand the specific manner in which CM is conducted for that program or system. Early
development and maintenance of the CMP ensures that configuration baselines are appropriately
established, that changes are correctly managed, that there are means to accurately identify an
item’s current configuration, and that the correct technical data is procured.
2.3. Configuration Identification. Configuration Identification is the activity within
configuration management which establishes the configuration items to be managed, organizes
configuration items into a hierarchical structure, determines nomenclature and product identifiers
of those configuration items, determines the documents and document identifiers which define
the items, and establishes baselines (functional, allocated, and/or product) for the system.
Configuration Items (CIs) are a combination of hardware, firmware, computer software, or any
of their distinct portions, which satisfy an end-use function and are designated for separate
configuration management. Components may be designated CIs because of critical interfaces or
the need to be integrated with operation with other components within or outside of the system.
Documentation defines the approved product configuration, and constitutes the baseline to which
future configuration changes are made. Integrated Product Teams (IPTs) ensure all CIs are
uniquely identified in accordance with guidance in MIL-HDBK-61. IPTs will maintain
appropriate configuration documentation for all configurations, including as applicable; technical
requirements specifications, engineering drawings, interface control documents, technical orders,
technical decision documentation, and other documentation. Documents will be maintained in a
permanent archive, in a retrievable manner, and in accordance with procedures applicable to
each form of document (e.g. T.O. documentation procedures).
   2.3.1. Establishing Configuration Baselines. Configuration baselines are the foundation of
   CM. They are the defined and approved collection of configuration documentation (e.g.
   specifications, drawings, Technical Data Package) established at a specific point in time. The
   baseline is a formal, controlled and maintained set of data that serves as a basis for defining
   change. There are three baseline types established during the lifecycle of a product:
   Functional, Allocated, and Product. The functional and allocated baselines are inputs to the
   design process. The product baseline is an output of the design process. Once configuration
   baselines have been established, they should be managed and updated through a
   configuration control process and through continuing audit and verification.
       2.3.1.1. Functional Baseline. The Functional Baseline (FBL) defines the quantitative
       performance parameters and design constraints, including operational and logistic
       parameters and their respective tolerances. Functional characteristics include all
       performance parameters, such as range, speed, lethality, reliability, maintainability, and
       safety.
 6                                                          ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


        2.3.1.2. Allocated Baseline.       The Allocated Baseline (ABL) describes how a
        configuration item operates within the next higher system of interest. It is the
        documentation describing a Configuration Item’s functional, performance,
        interoperability, and interface requirements that are allocated from those of a system or
        higher-level configuration item; interface requirements with interfacing configuration
        items; and the verifications required to confirm the achievement of those specified
        requirements.
        2.3.1.3. Product Baseline. The Product Baseline (PBL) is the Configuration Item’s
        detailed design documentation including, for software, the source code and components
        listing, and those verifications necessary for accepting product deliveries during the
        production, operation, maintenance, and logistic support of its life cycle. For hardware
        items, it incorporates design definition from the FBL and the ABL with the physical
        description provided in the engineering drawings. The information contained can also be
        applicable to an NDI or COTS item.
2.4. Configuration Change Management. After the initial release of product configuration
information, all changes shall be controlled. Configuration Control is the systematic proposal,
justification, prioritization, evaluation, coordination, approval or disapproval, and
implementation of all approved changes in configuration of a system or item after formal
establishment of a baseline. It provides management visibility, ensures all factors associated
with a proposed change are evaluated, prevents unnecessary or marginal changes, and
established change priorities. The primary mechanism used to establish and control these
changes is the Configuration Control Board (CCB). See Attachment 3 for a detailed description
of the change management process.
     2.4.1. Configuration Control Board. The purpose of the Configuration Control Board (CCB)
     is to ensure each proposed change to an item’s performance or physical characteristics is
     thoroughly evaluated with respect to technical, logistics, cost and schedule impacts and
     benefits. The CCB is an official, non-voting board, where the Chairperson has sole decision
     authority. The CCB requires sufficient expertise in appropriate functional and technical
     areas that it can render sound decisions on proposed changes and system related issues.
     Depending on the type of change proposed, the CCB may require specialized advice. With
     approval of the CCB Chairperson, functional and technical advisors from DoD as well as
     from external sources may be invited to participate in the CCB. The Configuration Control
     Board Executive Secretariat (CCBES) should provide these advisors background information
     in advance of the CCB meeting.
        2.4.1.1. The CCB Process outlined in Attachments 3 and 4 will be followed when
        processing change requests. Every program, system, or item of equipment shall utilize a
        CCB to review all Class I Engineering Change Proposals (ECPs), and major or critical
        Requests for Deviation (RFD) and Request for Waiver (RFW).
        2.4.1.2. The System Program Manager (SPM)/Product Group Manager (PGM)/Supply
        Chain Manager (SCM) is the CCB Chair. This authority may be delegated to an alternate
        chairperson; however this delegation must be documented with an appointment letter. At
        Robins AFB, Configuration Control Board chair delegation may be no lower than
        Division level or Chief Engineer. Delegations to AFMC Product Center organizations
        may be no lower than Branch level or DSM Chief Engineer. The chair or delegate is
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                                 7


     authorized to advise the disposition of all configuration proposals presented to the CCB.
     SSM organizations will follow the SPM organization’s CCB process in lieu of this
     instruction, if it exists.
     2.4.1.3. The System Program Manager (SPM), with support from the Development
     System Manager (DSM), System Support Manager (SSM), Product Group Manager
     (PGM), Supply Chain Manager (SCM), and the pertinent Chief / Lead Engineers shall:
         2.4.1.3.1. Coordinate to jointly maintain the system or end-item configuration
         baseline and manage changes.
         2.4.1.3.2. Implement a joint management team configuration baseline change and
         management process and bring all proposed temporary and proposed Class 1
         permanent configuration changes before the Configuration Control Board (CCB) for
         approval.
  2.4.2. WR-ALC CCB Process. The WR-ALC CCB Process consists of 6 phases
  (Attachment 3, Section A3.5). A description of each phase is given below. Each phase has
  entry and exit criteria detailed within local guidelines.
     2.4.2.1. Requirement Initiation (Phase I). This phase consists of requirement initiation
     and local validation. A change requirement is identified. Using the Class I definition in
     this document (Attachment 1, Section A1.3), the initiator submits Part I of the WR-
     ALC/Sustainment Configuration Change Proposal (SCCP) Form or AF Form 1067 to the
     Configuration Manager (CM). The CM forwards 1067 to MAJCOMS, or the WR-
     ALC/SCCP Configuration Control Authority/Requirement Validation Authority (RVA)
     as necessary (Attachment 3, Figure 2).
         2.4.2.1.1. Other documentation other than 1067s may be used to evaluate a change
         request and can consist of the following: Initial Capabilities Document, Combat
         Capability Document, Risk Assessments, MISHAP Reports, Deficiency Reports,
         Market Research, Drawings, Specifications, Standards, Technical Orders, etc.
     2.4.2.2. Requirement Validation (Phase II).
         2.4.2.2.1. Requirement Validation (1067). This phase consists of requirement
         validation. The Configuration Manager (CM) ensures the requirement has been
         validated by the local organization and forwards to Using Major Command. CM
         receives AF Form1067 back from Lead Command and ensures Lead Command/Using
         Major Commands (MAJCOMs) have completed and validated parts II and III
         (Attachment 3, Figures 3, 4, & 5).           The requirement must be complete,
         understandable, validated and properly annotated. All required attachments must be
         included; otherwise the CM will return the package to the initiator and/or validating
         officials in blocks 11, 12, & 20. When the correct documentation is received, the CM
         tracks the proposal by the assigned number and forwards the package to the
         appropriate Project Management office for assignment (PM).
         2.4.2.2.2. Requirement Validation (SCCP). This phase consists of requirement
         validation. The Configuration Manager (CM) ensures the requirement has been
         validated by the local organization and forwards to CI Engineering Support Activity
         (ESA). SCCP Part II Block 12 H is signed by the proposed CI ESA and validates the
 8                                                          ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


           requirement for the proposed change. An analysis is completed as to the Fit, Form or
           Function impact on the next higher assembly (NHA). If there is an impact, then the
           part number to the proposed CI rolls and change is assigned to the ESA for the next
           higher assembly. This process will continue until no NHA impact is determined.
           Then the ESA determines if the highest level impact assembly is traceable. If it is not
           traceable, then the part number for this assembly rolls and the process is re-initiated.
           Once the highest level of impact and traceability to the end item is determined, then
           this is the highest level of assembly part number to be rolled. At this point the
           responsible ESA for the change is determined and is the approving authority for the
           change. The SCCP is now forwarded by the change initiating CM to the responsible
           ESA’s CM. Note: if the CI is common to multiple NHA’s, the CCA will be the SM
           of the common item and will coordinate invites of all SM’s for NHA’s to the
           common item SM’s CCB.
              2.4.2.2.2.1. The requirement must be complete, understandable, validated and
              properly annotated. All required attachments must be included; otherwise the CM
              will return the package to the initiating CM and/or validating officials in blocks
              11, 12, & 20. When the correct documentation is received, the CM tracks the
              proposal by the assigned number and forwards the package to the responsible
              ESA.
              2.4.2.2.2.2. The responsible ESA signs Part III as a validated requirement. The
              CCA identifies the Program Execution Authority (PEA) and forwards the SCCP
              to the CM for PEA assignment and evaluation (Attachment 3, Figures 6 & 7).
       2.4.2.3. Configuration Change Process, Feasibility, and Concept Exploration (Phase III).
This phase consists of requirement evaluation and preparation for CRB review/approval. The
assigned PM assembles the Evaluation Team, which conducts engineering reviews and
investigations to include performing initial feasibility assessments and/or engineering studies.
The Evaluation Team reviews impacts in the following areas, including but not limited to:
Threat, Technology, Cost, Schedule, Engineering (to include OSS&E, Logistics, Manufacturing,
Intelligence, Environmental, Safety, Occupational Health (ESOH) and Developer’s capabilities).
The assigned PM develops initial Budgetary Cost Information (BCI), if required, and forwards it
to the CM to schedule the CRB. The CM forwards AF Form 1067 to MAJCOMS, or the WR-
ALC/SCCP to the CCA/RVA as necessary (Attachment 3, Figures 8 & 9).
       2.4.2.4. Budgeting and Funding (Phase IV). In this phase, the assigned PM forwards the
       approved Budgetary Cost Information (BCI) to the CM who coordinates with the
       Funding Unit for approval. For 1067 requirements, Lead MAJCOM will prioritize and
       POM for funding. For SCCP requirements, budgeting and funding reside within the PEA
       portfolio (Attachment 3, Figure 10).
       2.4.2.5. Program Refinement and Program Execution Plan (CCB) Approval (Phase V).
       In this phase, the assigned PM re-assembles the Evaluation Team, which conducts
       engineering reviews and investigations to include performing detailed feasibility
       assessments. The Evaluation Team develops the program execution plan for the
       following areas, including but not limited to: Threat, Technology, Cost, Schedule, Risk
       Management, Engineering (to include OSS&E, Logistics, Manufacturing, Intelligence,
       Environmental, Safety, Occupational Health (ESOH) and Developer’s capabilities).
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                                    9


       Once the program execution plan is complete, the assigned PM forwards compiled CCB
       package to the CM to schedule the CCB. The CCB approves the change and signs part 4.
       The CM forwards the approved CCB package to the appropriate budget authority
       (Attachment 3, Figure 11).
       2.4.2.6. Program Execution, Testing, and Implementation (Phase VI). The PM executes
       the project. Then the PM compiles the Configuration Transition Board/Technical
       Readiness Board (CTB/TRB) package and forwards to the CM to schedule the
       CTB/TRB. The CTB/TRB approves the execution of the change validation/verification
       and testing. Once all validation/verification and testing is complete, the PM compiles the
       CIB package and forwards to the CM to schedule the CIB. The CIB approves the
       execution of the final implementation plan and the change is incorporated (Attachment 3,
       Figure 12).
2.5. Configuration Status Accounting. Configuration Status Accounting (CSA) provides
traceability of configuration baselines and changes and is used as a management tool for
accomplishing all related tasks (including implementation status) resulting from such changes. It
is the recording and reporting of the information that is necessary to effectively manage the
configuration of an item. Organizations shall complete CSA activities throughout the lifecycle
of a system to achieve an efficient configuration management process.
2.6. Configuration Verification & Audit. Configuration audits shall be used to verify a system
and its components’ conformance to their configuration documentation. Each organization shall
the state the responsibilities, timeframes, and user results for continuous improvements and be
available for review. There are typically two types of configuration audits: Functional
Configuration Audit (FCA) and Physical Configuration Audit (PCA). The FCA verifies that
the CI has achieved all functional and performance requirements established in the performance
specifications. The PCA verifies that the system has been built or modified in accordance with
the Technical Data Package which describes the Product Baseline.




                                            MITCHEL H. BUTIKOFER, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 10                                                      ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODD 5000.01, The Defense Acquisition System
DODI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System
DoDD 5200.1R, Acquisition Systems Protection Program
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFI 10-601 Operational Capability Requirements Development
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-402, Engineering Drawing System
AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering
AFI 99-103, Capabilities Based Test and Evaluation
AFMCI 21-126, Temporary 2 (T-2) Modification of Aerospace Vehicles
AFMCI 21-302, Processing Interim Technical Orders (ITO) and Rapid Action Changes(RAC)
AFMCI 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) And
Life Cycle Systems Engineering
AFMCPAM 63-101, Life Cycle Risk Management
RAFBI 99-103 Test and Evaluation Process
T.O. 00-5-1, Air Force Technical Order System
T.O. 00-5-15, Air Force Time Compliance Technical Order Process
T.O. 00-5-16, USAF Automated CPIN System Software Managers Manual
T.O. 00-5-17, USAF CPIN System Users Manual
T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigation System
MIL-HDBK-61, Configuration Management Guidance
MIL-HDBK-514, Operational Safety, Suitability & Effectiveness for the Aeronautical Enterprise
MIL-HDBK-516B, Airworthiness Certification Criteria
MIL-STD 130N, Identification Marking of U.S. Military Property
MIL-STD 882D, Standard Practice for System Safety
EIA 632, Processes for Engineering a System
EIA 836A, Configuration Management Data Exchange and Interoperability
ANSI/EIA EIA-649, National Consensus Standard for Configuration Management
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                   11


EIA-649-HDBK, Configuration Management Guidance
Prescribed Forms
Robins AFB Form 1067, WR-ALC Sustainment Configuration Change Proposal Form
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADPE—Automatic Data Processing Equipment
AETC—Air Education Training Command
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFMCI—Air Force Materiel Command Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFSEO—Air Force SEEK Eagle Office
ALC—Air Logistics Center
ASC—Aeronautical Systems Command
ATE—Automated Test Equipment
ATP—Automatic Test Procedures
ATS—Automated Test Systems
BCI—Budgetary Cost Information
BCU—Block Cycle Update
BCC—Block Cycle Change
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CCBAD—Configuration Control Board Approval Documents
CCBC—Configuration Control Board Chairperson
CCBD—Configuration Control Board Directive
CCP—Contract Change Proposal
CDCA—Current Document Change Authority
CE—Chief Engineer
CI—Configuration Item
CLS—Contractor Logistics Support
 12                                                     ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


CM—Configuration Manager
CO—Contracting Officer
CPI—Critical Program Information
CPIN—Computer Program Identification Number
CRB - Configuration Review Board
CSA—Configuration Status Accounting
CSI—Critical Safety Item
CTB—Configuration Transition Board
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DSM—Developmental System Manager
DoD—Department of Defense
ECO—Engineering Change Order
ECP—Engineering Change Proposal
ESC—Electronic System Command
EIA—Electronic Industries Alliance
ERRC—Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability Code
ES—Equipment Specialist
ESOH—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health
F3I—Form, Fit, Function, and Interface
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
FRB—Flight Review Board
FRRB—Flight Readiness Review Board
GFE—Government Furnished Equipment
GFM—Government Furnished Materiel
GS - Ground Safety
HIS—Human Systems Integration
IAP—Initial Accumulation Point
IAW—In Accordance With
ICD—Interface Control Document
ICS—Interim Contract Support
ILSP—Integrated Logistics Support Plan
IPT—Integrated Product Team
KPP—Key Performance Parameters
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                13


LCMP—Life Cycle Management Plan
MACC—Modification Airworthiness Compliance Criteria
MAJCOM—Major Command
MDF—Mission Data File
MDS—Mission Design Series
MIL—HDBK - Military Handbook
NHA—Next Higher Assembly
OFP—Operational Flight Program
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety & Health Administration
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
OTA—Operational Test Authority
PGM—Product Group Manager
PHS&T—Packaging, Handling, Shipping & Transportation
PM—Project Manager
PMD—Program Management Directive
POC—Point of Contact
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PTO—Preliminary Technical Orders
RAFBI—Robins Air Force Base Instruction
R&M—Reliability and Maintainability
RFD—Request for Deviation
RFP—Request for Proposal
RFW—Request for Waiver
ROM—Rough Order of Magnitude
RSP—Readiness Spares Package
RTO—Responsible Test Organization
SCCSB—Software Configuration Control Sub Board
SCCP—Sustainment Configuration Change Proposal
SCM—Supply Chain Management
SCN—Specification Change Notice
 14                                                        ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


SMR—Source, Maintenance and Recoverability
SORAP—Source of Repair Assignment Process
SPM—System Program Manager
SPR—Special Program Requests
T-1—- Temporary -1
T-2—- Temporary -2
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Order
TO—Technical Order
TPM—Technical Performance Measures
TPS - Test Program Sets
TRB—Test Readiness Board
UID—Unique Identification
VTC—Video Teleconference
WR—ALC - Warner Robins Air Logistics Center

Terms
AF Form 1067:—Requirements document used to add new capability or sustainment change
requiring MAJCOM coordination or funding fielded/government owned items.
Budgetary Cost Information (BCI):—An analysis identifying all associated costs for the
proposed change. A BCI provides decision data and POM data.
Configuration Manager:—The individual designated to manage the configuration change
proposal from the time the change is initially identified through the incorporation of the
approved change into the contract and implementation into the configuration end item.
Change Notices:—Change notices transmit, manage, and record changes to documentation.
They delineate the exact change(s) in documents, using an ―is‖/―was‖ format for review. Change
notices are submitted and approved within a formal change proposal (ECP/CCP) unless
otherwise specified by the contract (e.g., administrative).
Chief Engineer (CE):—The individual responsible for OSS&E and all system technical
activities, including engineering and configuration changes, in support of the SPM/SSM.
Class I Configuration Change—:           A proposed change to approved configuration
documentation (baseline) for which the Government is the Current Document Change Authority
(CDCA) or that has been included in the contract or statement of work by the tasking activity
and:
(1) Affects any physical or functional requirement in approved functional or allocated
configuration documentation, or
(2) Affects any approved functional, allocated, or product configuration documentation and cost,
warranties or contract milestones, or
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                                    15


(3) Affects approved product configuration documentation and one or more of the following:
(a) Government furnished equipment
(b) Safety
(c) Compatibility, interoperability or logistic support
(d) Delivered technical manuals for which changes are not funded
(e) Will require retrofit of delivered units
(f) Preset adjustments or schedules affecting operating limits or performance to the extent that a
new identification number is required
(g) Interchangeability, substitutability or replaceability of any item down to non—
repairable subassemblies
(h) Sources on a source control drawing
(i) Skills, manning, training, biomedical factors or human engineering design
(j) Critical Safety Item (CSI), Critical Application Item (CAI) or Critical Program Information
(CPI)
Class II Configuration Change: All other changes that are not Class I, such as, but not limited
to, the following: correction of grammatical errors, spelling, format, etc.
Configuration Control: (1) A systematic process that ensures changes to a baseline are
properly identified, documented, evaluated for impact, approved by an appropriate level of
authority, incorporated, and verified; (2) the configuration management activity concerning the
systematic proposal, justification, evaluation, coordination, and disposition of proposed changes;
and (3) the implementation of all approved and released changes into the applicable product
configurations, supporting and interfacing products, and their associated information.
Configuration Control Authority (CCA): Organization with configuration management and
change approval authority for a CI.
Configuration Control Board (CCB):        The CCB is composed of technical and
administrative representatives who recommend approval or disapproval of CCB items
(ECPs/CCPs, Deviations, Waivers, and certain Request for Proposal (RFP) items) and
recommend engineering approval/disapproval for all temporary and permanent
modifications. The CCB is an official, non—voting board, where the Chairperson has sole
decision authority.
Configuration Control Board/Program Execution Plan (CCB/PEP):—Detailed review of
proposed change, impacts to the system, plans for addressing impacts, expected funding,
schedule, risk, etc.
Configuration Control Board Approval Document (CCBAD):—The official records
indicating the recommendation of the CCB members relative to a modification proposal. These
forms (e.g. AFMC Form 518, or equivalent) are retained by the CCBES.
Configuration Control Board Chairperson (CCBC):—The System Program Manager
(SPM)/Product Group Manager (PGM)/Supply Chain Manager (SCM) or designee with sole
approval authority for all CCB actions.
 16                                                          ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


Configuration Control Board Directive (CCBD):—The AFMC Form 518 is used to record the
CCB disposition and authorizes contractual incorporation of changes (ECP/CCP).
Configuration Control Board Executive Secretariat (CCBES):—Serves as the focal point on
all official documentation for CCB items between the customer and the Program Office.
Configuration Implementation Board/Fielding Release Board (CIB/FRB):—Review of
technical and logistical readiness for implementation of the change on a full scale.
Configuration Item (CI): An aggregation of hardware or software (including firmware)
that satisfies an end—use function and is designated by the Government for separate
management.
Configuration Review Board (CRB):—Review feasibility and cost estimates associated with a
proposed configuration change prior to final validation and approval of the requirement.
Configuration Transition Board/Test Readiness Board (CTB/TRB): Approves temporary
implementation of configuration change on limited assets for purpose of testing and evaluation
(Includes kit—proof and Val/Ver)
Current Document Change Authority (CDCA):—Organization that controls and has authority
to update drawings, specs, standards for the configuration item (typically the same organization
as ESA).
Engineering Change Proposal (ECP): A proposed change to the technical baseline of the
program (CI and/or its approved documentation). It can include changes to contractual
requirements and contains all the documentation by which the change is described, justified, and
submitted to the Government change authority for disposition. Organic engineering changes are
proposed and implemented by Government entities. Organic engineering changes are proposed
and approved under the normal Class I/Class II change process and documented via AF Form
1067, Modification Proposal, per AFI 63—131, Modification Management. ECPs are submitted
by the contractor during the production phase of a modification.
Class I ECP:—A document used to propose a change to the configuration item baseline when
related equipment, CIs, interfaces, or technical manuals are affected or retrofit is involved. Also,
this type of change usually requires changes to some contract provisioning. Class I ECPs require
CCB approval authorization. There are three types of priorities for Class I ECPs:
Emergency: 48—hour action required
Urgent:       30—calendar day action required
Routine:      90—calendar day action required
Class II ECP:—Affects documentation only; does not affect functional requirements, physical
requirements, interchangeability, cost, interface, or schedule.
Engineering Support Activity (ESA):—Organization with OSS&E authority for the
configuration item (typically resides in the CCA organization).
Equipment Specialist:—Provides assistance as needed to resolve technical issues.
Form, Fit, Function and Interface—: Form, fit, function and interface (F3I) includes each of
the elements listed below. Any deviation from one or more of these categories constitutes a
change in F3I and shall be coordinated through the formal CCB process.
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                                     17


Form: identifies all the manufacturing process/requirements to produce the component such as
material type, tempers, finish processes, finishes/coatings, all dimensional geometry/loft data and
tolerances.
Fit: identifies the manner in which a component attaches to the adjacent surface/component such
as mounting points and mounting configuration in relation to itself and adjacent components.
Function: identifies the manner in which a component operates and performs its intended
function such as the interoperability with any adjacent component.
Interface: interfaces are performance, functional and physical attributes which exist at a
common boundary and are subject to interface agreements and interface documentation such as
specifications and drawings.
Evaluation Team: A team of administrative and technical personnel who evaluate technical
feasibility and cost for a proposed change.
Interface Control: is the process of identifying, documenting and controlling all performance,
functional and physical attributes relevant to the interfacing of two or more products provided by
one or more organizations.
Logistics Manager: Ensures all impacts to logistical requirements are addressed.
Maintenance Planning: A review of requirements for impacts to levels of maintenance,
manpower and personnel, supply support/support equipment, tech data, training/training
equipment, package/handling/storage/transportation, computer resources/facilities support, and
design interfaces.
Next Higher Assembly (NHA): The next higher CI in the system hierarchy
Organic Change Request: Internal change request developed/initiated by government
Originator: Organization submitting change requirement.


Permanent Modification: A modification to correct materiel deficiencies, improve reliability
and maintainability (R&M), or to add or remove capability. Permanent modifications are
documented through the use of Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTO).
Permanent— Safety Modification: Safety modifications are permanent modifications which
correct material or other deficiencies which could endanger the safety or health of personnel or
cause lose or extensive damage to systems or equipment. Safety modifications have priority and
precedence over all other permanent modifications.
Program Execution Activity (PEA):—Organization designated by the CCA and delegated
authority to evaluate/implement an approved change requirement
Project Manager (PM):—Responsible for managing and monitoring the requirement from
origination to implementation of the approved configuration change.
Request for Deviation (RFD): A RFD is a written request for the manufacture of an item
to depart from a particular requirement(s) of an item’s currently—approved configuration
documentation for a specific number of units or a specified period of time. A deviation differs
from an engineering change in that an approved engineering change requires corresponding
 18                                                          ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


revision of the item’s currently approved configuration documentation, whereas a deviation does
not.
Request for Waiver (RFW):—A RFW is a written request to accept an item which, during
production or after being submitted for Government inspection or acceptance is found to depart
from specified requirements, but nevertheless is considered suitable for use ―as is‖ or after repair
by an approved method.
Requirement Validation Authority (RVA):—Organization with responsibility for certifying a
configuration change as a valid requirement (note: operational requirements typically on 1067
validated by lead/using commands, sustainment requirements typically on SCCP validated by
engineering authority within AFMC).
Sustainment Configuration Change Proposal (SCCP): Requirements document for any
configuration change to a WR—ALC managed item.
System Engineer:—Evaluates and validates the requirement to ensure the critical technical
engineering requirements have been adequately addressed.
T—1 Modification: Temporary modifications that change, add, or remove equipment to
provide increased capability for a special/specific mission. They are normally made by using
commands for operational reasons, and are not used as substitutes for permanent modifications.
T-1 modifications are not maintained on the system for more than one year without a waiver
from the SPM and are not installed on more than five systems without prior HQ USAF/ILM
approval.
T—2 Modification: Temporary modifications required to support RDT&E, inservice testing of
potential replacement items (form, fit, function, and interface (F3I)) for aircraft, and stores-
compatibility testing. They are normally accomplished only on programs having approved
Program Management Directives (PMD). T-2 modifications are usually accomplished to
evaluate a selected set of operational or test systems, a proposed permanent modification, test
operational suitability, etc.
Time Compliance Technical Order (TCTO): Authorized method of directing and
providing instructions for modifying equipment and performing or initially establishing
one—time inspections.
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                              19


                                      Attachment 2
                                TRAINING TEMPLATE

A2.1. Configuration Management Training Template. All organizations approving changes
to a configuration item will have a dedicated configuration manager. The organization’s
configuration manager will coordinate only change actions between itself and other
organizations pertaining to a configuration change.
   A2.1.1. Training requirements for the configuration manager should include the mandatory
   courses listed below. Certification for now is only done through commercial courses which
   will have to be paid for by the organization.
A2.2. Mandatory Courses. AFIT SYS 028 Introduction to Configuration Management
      AFIT SYS 172 Modification Management Process
      DAU Log 204 Configuration Management
      DAU Targeted Training Configuration Management (Introduction to MIL-HDBK-61)
      SYS 110 Fundamentals of Data Management
A2.3. Optional Courses. CCM-601 Basic Configuration Management
      CCM-602 Advanced Configuration Management
      SCM-603 Software Configuration Management
      ECM 605 Enterprise Configuration Management
      Standard CMII Courses
      Advanced CMII Courses
      Special CMII Courses
 20                                                         ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


                                          Attachment 3
               CONFIGURATION CHANGE MANAGEMENT PROCESS

A3.1. Decision criteria for topics that need to go before the CCB:
   A3.1.1. All Class I configuration changes (as defined in Attachment 1 of this document) will
   be boarded before the organizational CCB.
   A3.1.2. All Class II configuration changes will be approved IAW organizational procedures.
   A3.1.3. AFMC Form 202, Technical Order 00-25-107 Requests for Technical Assistance
   and Repairs IAW Maintenance Manuals are not required to be boarded IAW this process.
A3.2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   A3.2.1. CCB Member(s):
       A3.2.1.1. Participates or designates a representative to participate in the CCB meeting.
       A3.2.1.2. Reviews CCB agenda and packages prior to the CCB meeting and provides
       input and concurrence/non-concurrence to the CCBES and PM.
       A3.2.1.3. Concurs or non-concurs with the CCB Chairperson’s decision and documents
       concurrence on the CCBAD.
   A3.2.2. CCB Core Members.
       A3.2.2.1. The minimum requirements for the CCB include but are not limited to:
       A3.2.2.2. CCB Chairperson
       A3.2.2.3. CCB Executive Secretariat/Configuration Manager
       A3.2.2.4. System Program Manager (SPM)/Product Group Manager (PGM)/Supply
       Chain Manager (SCM)
       A3.2.2.5. Chief Engineer
       A3.2.2.6. Center Test Authority (CTA) (WR-ALC/ENT)
       A3.2.2.7. Logistics
       A3.2.2.8. System Safety
       A3.2.2.9. MAJCOMs
       A3.2.2.10. Division Chief of Contracting
       A3.2.2.11. Financial Management
   A3.2.3. CCB Chairperson.
       A3.2.3.1. Presides over the CCB.
       A3.2.3.2. Approves, approves with comments, disapproves or defers all CCB items.
       A3.2.3.3. Formalizes the CCB decision by signing Configuration Control Board
       Approval Document (CCBAD).
       A3.2.3.4. Determines CCB core membership by official letter.
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                               21


     A3.2.3.5. Designates additional members of the CCB.
     A3.2.3.6. Has the authority to make ancillary members a part of the CCB core.
     A3.2.3.7. Determines CCB meeting frequency.
  A3.2.4. CCB Executive Secretariat/Configuration Manager.
     A3.2.4.1. Serves as the focal point for all official documentation for CCB items between
     the customer and the System Program Office.
     A3.2.4.2. Maintains applicable regulatory and policy documentation/correspondence and
     is knowledgeable of the current policies, procedures, and criteria applicable to the
     evaluation and approval of change proposals, modifications, and any other CCB related
     documentation.
     A3.2.4.3. Ensures official letters are published and maintained. Examples include CCB
     delegation and CCB membership.
     A3.2.4.4. Maintains a tracking database for requirements submitted for CCB disposition.
     Records the final disposition of the effort.
     A3.2.4.5. Develops and maintains CCB action item tracking system and distributes those
     action items to the appropriate offices of primary responsibility (OPRs) for action.
     A3.2.4.6. Maintains CCB checklists and templates.
     A3.2.4.7. Ensures requirement submitted is validated.
     A3.2.4.8. Assists PM in preparing the CCBAD.
     A3.2.4.9. Reviews all packages submitted to the CCB for accuracy and completeness.
     A3.2.4.10. Distributes CCB schedule, agenda and package.
     A3.2.4.11. Provides telecon/video teleconference (VTC) number to non-local CCB
     members.
     A3.2.4.12. Identifies open action items to the CCB.
     A3.2.4.13. Records and publishes official CCB minutes approved by the CCB
     Chairperson. Distributes copies of the minutes to all board members, PMs, and users.
  A3.2.5. System Program Manager (SPM)/Product Group Manager (PGM)/Supply Chain
  Manager (SCM).
     A3.2.5.1. Makes final decision regarding configuration control when serving as the CCB
     Chairperson.
     A3.2.5.2. May delegate CCB responsibilities to Chief Engineer or Deputy.
  A3.2.6. Chief Engineer.
     A3.2.6.1. Responsible for all engineering and OSS&E for systems and proposed
     changes.
     A3.2.6.2. Responsible for ensuring that any work delegated to a contractor or organic
     resource has a system in place that complements the rigor and structure of the CCB
     process. For instance, if software work is performed by an organic resource, then that
22                                                         ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


     work must be tightly controlled by a process similar to that contained in the software
     engineering institute's framework leading to a CMMI maturity level 3 or higher
     organization.
     A3.2.6.3. Ensure that there is an agreement in place between product line managers and
     end item managers.
  A3.2.7. Center Test Authority.
     A3.2.7.1. Provides guidance on test and evaluation requirements, capabilities, and issues.
  A3.2.8. Logistics.
     A3.2.8.1. Ensures all areas of logistical support for the requirement are addressed
  A3.2.9. System Safety.
     A3.2.9.1. Evaluates and validates the system safety requirements to ensure safety issues
     have been adequately addressed
     A3.2.9.2. Provides support for those areas identified as deficient
  A3.2.10. MAJCOMS.
     A3.2.10.1. Affected MAJCOM shall participate as required.
  A3.2.11. Division Chief of Contracting.
     A3.2.11.1. Reviews the CCB package and advises the CCB chairperson on contracting
     issues, schedules, and procedures.
     A3.2.11.2. Provides input as required to clarify information and assist in determination
     A3.2.11.3. Negotiates and makes the appropriate changes to the contract.
     A3.2.11.4. Provides direction to the contractor on final disposition of Requests for
     Deviation, Engineering Change Proposals, Value Engineering Change Proposals, etc.
  A3.2.12. Financial Management.
     A3.2.12.1. Reviews the CCB package for funding appropriation.
         A3.2.12.1.1. Evaluates execution of funds schedule.
     A3.2.12.2. Maintains record of budget inputs.
     A3.2.12.3. Track obligations and expenditure rates.
     A3.2.12.4. Concurs on funding request after CCB approval of change request.
  A3.2.13. CCB Ancillary Members.
     A3.2.13.1. Ancillary membership denotes members who attend in advisory roles. These
     are suggested members and may not be all inclusive.
         A3.2.13.1.1. Nuclear Certification Manager
         A3.2.13.1.2. 78 ABW/SEG Robins Safety/Flight (Safety Office)
         A3.2.13.1.3. National Science Foundation (NSF)
         A3.2.13.1.4. 78 AMDS/SGPB (Bioenvironmental)
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                                 23


        A3.2.13.1.5. 78 CEG/CEV (Environmental Mgt)
        A3.2.13.1.6. Responsible Test Organization (RTO)
        A3.2.13.1.7. Operational Test Authority (OTA)
        A3.2.13.1.8. Affected Platform/IPT
        A3.2.13.1.9. Other services
        A3.2.13.1.10. Foreign Military Sales (FMS)
        A3.2.13.1.11. WR-ALC/XP2 (INTEL)
        A3.2.13.1.12. Simulators/Ground Trainers (OO-ALC/YWS)
  A3.2.14. Project Manager.
     A3.2.14.1. Manages and monitors the requirement from origination to implementation of
     the approved configuration change.
     A3.2.14.2. Facilitates communication and coordination between members of the
     evaluation team and ensures work is being completed according to budget and schedule
     guidelines.
     A3.2.14.3. Participates in a variety of preliminary tasks related to the creation of a
     project. Participates in all preliminary needs assessments and establishes an interim team
     for the project.
     A3.2.14.4. Prepares or obtains all preliminary program planning/business documents
     such as the project plan, OSS&E requirements, cost requirements, budgets and
     performance requirements for the project.
     A3.2.14.5. Ensures the team is resourced properly, develops a baseline schedule that is
     signed and approved by key members of the team and takes the lead to establish
     requirement objectives.
     A3.2.14.6. Participates in process analysis, document development, coordination of the
     appropriate reviews and continuing to manage the team and the work that is being
     accomplished.
     A3.2.14.7. Ensures all project briefings and package documents are prepared for
     presentation to the CCB to include the CCBAD
     A3.2.14.8. Creates and maintains modification project folder.
     A3.2.14.9. Implements CCB decision.
     A3.2.14.10. Responsible for ensuring any work delegated to a contractor or organic
     resource maintains integrity of the CCB process at the interface level. Assigns and tracks
     version numbers as appropriate to ensure that product delivery supports the intended
     CCB identified work.
     A3.2.14.11. When necessary, serves as customer focal point. When serving in this
     capacity, the Project Manager shall advise the CCBES of all configuration change
     activity.
  A3.2.15. Evaluation Team.
 24                                                        ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


       A3.2.15.1. Project Manager: Serves as the Evaluation Team Lead for the requirement.
       Ensures all aspects of the requirement are evaluated before providing recommendation to
       the CCB. Ensures all CCB package documentation is complete and accurate before
       forwarding package to the CCB Executive Secretariat.
       A3.2.15.2. Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health (ESOH): The Engineer or
       Equipment Specialist coordinates any new or revised processes or procedures that may
       affect the environment (land, water, air impacts/compliance), safety, and health of
       personnel, cause damage or destruction of government owned equipment, or potentially
       change Technical Orders, with the appropriate ESOH activities (e.g. Center Safety,
       Bioenvironmental Engineering (BEE), Environmental Management).
       A3.2.15.3. Equipment Specialist (ES): Provides assistance as needed to resolve any
       technical order issues. Evaluates requirement for Mission Design Series (MDS) impact
       and Technical Orders. Coordinates with affected Supply Chain Managers (SCMs) early
       in the process to ensure proper coordination on issues such as source of repair,
       provisioning, Expendability, Recoverability, Reparability Code (ERRC)/Source,
       Maintenance and Recoverability (SMR) coding and D200 entry/management.
       A3.2.15.4. System Engineer: Evaluates and validates the requirement to ensure the
       critical engineering issues have been adequately addressed and provide support for
       proposal development. Ensures OSS&E requirements are adequately addressed.
       A3.2.15.5. Logistics Manager: Ensures all areas of logistical support for the requirement
       are addressed.
       A3.2.15.6. Simulators/Ground Trainers (508 MASSG/GFMMA):              Provides input on
       potential impacts to systems.
       A3.2.15.7. Personnel from other affected organizations (e.g. Support Equipment,
       Automated Test Systems (ATS)): Provides input on potential impacts to systems.
       A3.2.15.8. Other offices (e.g. Intelligence Office, 78 SFS): Evaluates requirement as
       necessary.
A3.3. CCB Meetings.
The CCB shall be held as required to accommodate the change activity within each group.
   A3.3.1. Attendance. Core members or designee attendance is mandatory.
   A3.3.2. Meeting Notice/Agenda.   Project manager provide a copy of their final
   briefing/presentation to the CCB Executive Secretariat according to organizational
   guidelines.
       A3.3.2.1. The CCB Executive Secretariat shall provide a meeting notice, including an
       agenda, to each CCB member according to organizational guidelines. Each member
       reviews the agenda and determines their organization’s position on each proposed item.
A3.4. Additional Information.
   A3.4.1. Out of Cycle CCBs. The Project Manager shall obtain approval from the Chief
   Engineer on all emergency/urgent Change Request Packages before contacting the CCBES to
   schedule the out of cycle CCB. The CCBES will complete any necessary actions and
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                                   25


   schedule the urgent CCB with all board members. Out of cycle CCBs will be kept to an
   absolute minimum. Extraordinary circumstances and a full justification will be required
   prior to obtaining a walk-through disposition on an effort. The disposition of out of cycle
   CCB items/efforts will be included in the agenda of the next available/designated CCB
   meeting as an informational item.
      A3.4.1.1. Out of cycle Change Request Packages shall meet emergency/urgent criteria
      such as, but not limited to, safety of flight conditions and critical flight test schedule.
      Because of their limited processing time, these changes may be scheduled for a CCB
      after the agenda has been published.
      A3.4.1.2. If CCB is scheduled within the next 48 hours, then the Project Manager will
      walk the change package around for coordination review prior to the CCB.
          A3.4.1.2.1. If a CCB is not scheduled within 48 hours, then the Project Manager will
          either walk the change item package around for coordination or call an emergency
          CCB. Upon the coordinated recommendation, change will be presented to the CCB
          Chair or designated representative for signing.
   A3.4.2. CCB Conduct. The CCBES takes a roll call of CCB members. Once all members
   are present and accounted for, the meeting is then turned over to the CCB Chairperson for
   administrative comments and review of open action items. The CCB chairman shall review
   the information to be presented and ensure that all opinions are adequately addressed. CCB
   members provide their recommendation for the disposition of the action (including any
   outstanding issues) to the CCB Chairperson. The CCB Chairperson shall then determine the
   overall weapon system program position for the matter being considered.
   A3.4.3. Weapon System Coordination. The Project Manager and Chief Engineer shall apply
   a sound decision philosophy in the review of the Change Review Package to determine if
   other commodities/end items/systems are impacted. The SPM/PGM/SCM and Chief
   Engineer shall be invited to the CCB by the CCBES if the Change Request package has a
   significant impact to the commodity/end item/system performance (e.g., critical safety items,
   logistics decisions that drive changes to the weapon system TO, processes, changes to the
   Interface Control Document, safety, capability, etc.)
A3.5. Suggested CCB Presentation Considerations.
   A3.5.1. Modification, ECP, Waiver and Deviation Change Requests. This information may
   be tailored as required for the type of change requests. The brief is generally no more than
   10-12 slides using organizational CCB slide Template and should provide the following
   information.
      A3.5.1.1. Change Type: (Mod, ECP, WAIVER, DEVIATION).
                System affected
                Permanent or temporary change
                Requirement/Direction
      A3.5.1.2. Project Manager: (should go on Title slide).
      A3.5.1.3. Description /Purpose: (what, why, benefits, aircraft effectivity, pictures,
      diagrams, how will performance of system be measured, etc.).
 26                                                           ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


Is this a new capability or does this replace an existing capability?
Does proposed change resolve a known or newly discovered discrepancy?
For software modifications list all change requests, problem reports, etc that were considered and the
ones selected for the mod.
Applicable pictures/diagrams
       A3.5.1.4. Cost of Action.
                  Source for Funding
                  Funding Type (s)
                  Estimated Cost
                  Funded or unfunded requirement
       A3.5.1.5. Schedule.
                  Expected Contract Award Date
                  Expected Fielding Date (number of months ARO)
                  Milestone schedule
       A3.5.1.6. Impacts.
                  Production Effectivity:
                  Retrofit Effectivity:
                  Does this change impact other programs in any way? Is this change contingent on any
                  other actions?
                  Return On Investment (ROI) –
                  Return On Reliability (ROR) – (increase in MTBF, MTBM, reduction in TNMCM,
                  etc.)
                  Identify interfaces affected by the new requirement
                  Specs/ICD changes
                  Identify interface/integration issues
                  Address all known areas of impact
                  If proposed change is software, has version been installed, tested and accredited with
                  appropriate organization? If so, where, on what systems and what were the findings?
                  Key Performance Parameters and Technical Performance Measures
                  Critical Program Information (CPI)
       A3.5.1.7. Risk.
                  Technical and safety risks will be evaluated IAW MIL-STD-882 and Airworthiness
                  Certification Circular No. 5.
                  Cost and schedule risk will be evaluated using AFMCPAM 63-101.
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                                   27


               A risk analysis summary worksheet such as the one shown in the CCB Checklist
               should be used to identify the risks associated with the elements listed in block 10 of
               the CCB Checklist and will be used as part of the overall technical, safety, cost,
               schedule, and program risks.
     A3.5.1.8. Deliverables.
               Address GFE/GFI if applicable.
               List all Hardware, Software and Documentation deliverables.
               Discuss delivery impact if applicable.
     A3.5.1.9. Logistics.
               Maintenance Planning
               Manpower/Personnel
               Support Equipment
               Technical and TCTO Data
               Training/Training Support
               Packaging/Handling/Storage/ Transportation
               Computer Resource Support
               Design Interface
               Supply Support
               Facilities
               Method of Implementation: (TCTO, Preferred Spare, etc.)
               Modification Performed by: (Field, CFT, DFT, Contractor, etc.)
     A3.5.1.10. Testing.
               Discuss Test Requirements, Lead Test Org, success criteria and asset availability.
               Discuss Test Activity with Results, RTO, etc
     A3.5.1.11. OSS&E.
                 Critical Safety Item Identification and Management
                 Interfaces to other programs
                 Environmental and Occupational Heath Impact
                 System Safety Impact Assessment
                 Air Worthiness Certification and other required certifications?
                 Weight and balance, safety of flight, electrical, etc
     A3.5.1.12. Summary/Recommendation.
                  Do you recommend approval or disapproval? If disapproved, WHY?
 28                                                       ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


                  Any constraints/limitations for approval? (Examples: Do not operate during take-
                  off or landing, any EMI/EMC concerns, cargo load limits, flight envelope
                  limitations, etc.)
   A3.5.2. ECO, New Drawings and Flight Manual Performance Chart Change Requests.
           This information may be tailored as required for the type of change request. The brief is
           generally no more than 1-2 slides using organizational CCB slide template and should
           provide the following information
           Engineer
           Affected Drawing(s)
           Description/Purpose (drawing correction, design change, etc)
           Method of Implementation (TCTO, Preferred Spared, etc)
           Impacts (Tech Data other than drawing(s), Programs/Mods, etc)
A3.6. Process Flow Diagram.

Figure A3.1. Phase I – Requirement Initiation
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                  29


Figure A3.2. Phase II – Requirement Validation




Figure A3.3. Phase II – Requirement Validation (Continued)




Figure A3.4. Phase II – Requirement Validation (Continued)
 30                                               ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


Figure A3.5. Phase II – WR-ALC Requirement Validation




Figure A3.6. – WR-ALC/SCCP Requirement Validation
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                    31


Figure A3.7. – Phase III Feasibility and Concept Exploration




Figure A3.8. Phase III – Feasibility and Cost Review
 32                                                ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


Figure A3.9. Phase IV – Budgeting and Funding




Figure A3.10. Phase V – Program Refinement and Execution
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                     33


Figure A3.11. – Phase VI – Execution, Testing, Implementation
 34                                                          ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


                                          Attachment 4
                 WR-ALC MASTER CCB CHECKLIST INSTRUCTIONS

A4.1. Introduction. The WR-ALC Configuration Control Checklist ensures the preparation,
evaluation, coordination and management of proposed changes, and deviations to affected
configuration items of WR-ALC weapon systems’ configuration management baseline. The
configuration management process seeks to ensure changes are cost effective, timely, required
and do not adversely impact WR-ALC weapon systems.
A4.2. Description. The checklist addresses the six major phases broken down into 26 flow
blocks. It provides guidance on the type of information required to initiate, evaluate, develop a
complete CCB package and render a decision for a proposed change. The information contained
in the flowchart provides a guideline but is not all inclusive nor an exhaustive list of the actions
that may be required.        The checklist may be accessed at WR-ALC/EN website at
https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/FOWRALC/en/Configuration Control Board CCB/MASTER
CCB CHECKLIST.xls
A4.3. Functionality. The Checklist contains the team member responsible for completing each
block or phase. The responsible member checks off the appropriate block in preparing the data to
complete each Phase. Each line must be checked Yes, No or N/A to complete the block and
phase. The N/A column should be marked if a block or subtask/question does not apply.
Comments concerning a checklist item may be entered into the column titled ―OPR.‖ When the
team member completes their area of responsibility, the checklist is returned to the respective
point of contact (POC). The PM files the completed checklist in the CCB folder.
A4.4. Master CCB Checklist Block Numbering Instructions. The block numbering system
below matches the process steps shown in the Master CCB Checklist.
BLOCK 1 - Originator Prepares Change Request

The Originator is the entry point for all change requests.

NOTE: Originator can be anyone from the field or a contractor/government representative.
Inputs are made via an AF Form 1067, Requests for Deviation/Waiver, Engineering Change
Proposals (ECP), Engineering Change Orders (ECO)/New Drawings, Design Change Notices
(DCN), Flight Manual changes that impact performance charts, AFMC Form 230/231s,
Equipment Certifications or any other change request documents.
BLOCK 2 – Change Requirement Document

The Originator submits the change request to the designated weapon system’s CCBES for
tracking in the organization’s configuration tracking system.

BLOCK 3 – Receipt of Change Request

The CCBES receives the change request from the originator, logs the change request into the
organization’s configuration tracking system, and assigns a case number. The CCBES initiates a
Configuration Control Board tracking folder and notifies the originator that the change request is
in process.
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                                     35


BLOCK 4 – Valid Change Request Documentation

The CCBES ensures the change request documents are properly validated. A change request is
considered valid if it is signed IAW the following:

Table A4.1. Change Request Table
                Change Request                            Validation Signature
   AF Form 1067                                Part 3 by Lead Command
   Requests for Deviation/Waiver               In the Appropriate Government Activity
                                               Block
   Engineering Change Proposal                 In the Appropriate Government Activity
                                               Block
   Engineering Change Order/New Drawings Government engineering supervisor (Block
                                               14)
   Design Change Notice                        In the Appropriate Government Activity
                                               Block
   Flight Manual Changes to Performance Flight Manual Manager
   Charts
   AFMC Form 230/231                           Government          Software         Project
                                               Manager/Engineer
   Equipment Certifications                    Commodity       Program       Manager/Lead
                                               Command
   Other Change Request Documents              As Appropriate
Other documentation as listed in Section 2.4.2.1.1. may also be required to evaluate a change
request.

BLOCK 5 – Validate Requirement

If the CCBES determines the change documentation has not been properly validated, then
coordination will occur after the originator provides the necessary information (refer to Block 4).

BLOCK 6 – Assign Project Manager/Engineer

The CCBES obtains the name of the Project Manager/Engineer from the respective supervisor
whom should be assigned to the Change Request package. The CCBES forwards the Change
Request package to the Project Manager/Engineer, assigns a suspense date, and updates the
configuration tracking system.

BLOCK 7 – Review Requirement

The Project Manager/Engineer is responsible for: reviewing the Change Request package;
validating the need for CCB review; determining if Form, Fit, Function, or Interface (F3I) is
impacted (see definitions); and determines if all supporting documentation necessary for
evaluation has been submitted. The Project Manager determines if sufficient data has been
provided for the Integrated Product Team (IPT) to begin its evaluation. This data shall include
but is not limited to the following:
 36                                                         ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


Design Requirements (i.e. deficiencies to be corrected, new capabilities, etc.); Qualification
Requirements; Performance Requirements (Key Performance Parameters; Technical
Performance Measures, and Specification Requirements); Safety Requirements.

BLOCK 8 - Requirement Defined Decision

The Project Manager/Engineer assembles a project folder if sufficient information has been
provided in the change requirement document. If insufficient data has been submitted, then the
Project Manager/Engineer will return the Change Request package to the CCBES who will
request additional information from the originator (see Block 5).

BLOCK 9 - Assemble Evaluation Team

The Project Manager/Engineer shall establish an IPT comprised of functionals from the
following disciplines: engineering, finance, contracting, equipment specialist, program
management, logistics management, technical order management, engineering data management
specialist, safety, and any other discipline required to complete the checklist described in Block
10.

BLOCK 10 – Evaluate Proposed Change

The IPT uses the topics listed in block ten of the Master CCB Checklist to conduct a detailed
review of the proposed change. These topics illustrate the type of information necessary for the
IPT to make a recommendation to the System Program Manager as to their disposition of the
proposed change and are not all inclusive.

Note: The data used to substantiate the topics listed under block ten shall be maintained within
the project folder.

BLOCK 11 - Risks Identified and Quantified

The Project Manager and IPT should identify all known risks and propose mitigation/acceptance
solutions. Refer to MIL-STD-882, AFMC PAMPHLET 63-101 and Airworthiness Certification
Circular No. 5 for more information on risk management.

BLOCK 12 – Cost and Schedule

The Project Manager develops the Budgetary Cost Information (BCI) and proposed schedule if
required. Considerations should be made for economic growth factors (i.e. inflation) in all out
year projections. For software block cycle updates, the Consolidated Asset Management System
(CAMS) software cost elements should be completed. If the requirement is not a programmed
change then the Project Manager submits an unfunded requirement.

The IPT identifies funds type, requests budget estimates/ROMs from contractors, and develops a
government cost estimate. After receipt of contractor’s budget estimates/ROMs, the IPT
performs a cost analysis review. The IPT also includes the following schedules as part of an
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                                   37


integrated master schedule: configuration management process, change development, testing,
technical data, and fielding.

NOTE: The cost and schedule estimates provided by the Project Manager should be realistic and
executable for the projected FY of implementation. Typically cost estimates/schedules are
needed for an AF Form 1067, ECPs, and S/W changes.

BLOCK 13 – Consolidate Information

The Project Manager consolidates all information (e.g. BCI, 1067, Risk Assessment, etc.) and
prepares the documentation for the CCBES who coordinates Lead/Using Command review as
applicable (e.g., ECOs, drawing changes, small ECPs may not require Lead/Using Command
coordination).

NOTE: An optional pre-CCB or IPT management review may be conducted at this point. The
purpose of a pre-review is: to provide visibility to the Chief Engineer/SPM; to direct the IPT to
address issues that might not have been considered; and/or to initiate sustainment actions that
might delay CCB approval. Some Change Request packages (e.g., ECOs, drawing changes,
ECPs, etc. that were not initiated by the Lead/Using Command as a requirement) may not require
BCI and or Lead/Using Command coordination (Blocks 12-18).

BLOCK 14 – Cost Analysis/Review

The information consolidated in block thirteen should be forwarded to the Lead/Using
Command. For software block cycle updates, Consolidated Asset Management System (CAMS)
software cost elements need to be developed and documented.

BLOCK 15 – Lead Command/Using Command Decision

The Project Manager determines if the Change Request Package should be reviewed by the Lead
Command, Using Command, or both. The project manager forwards the Change Request
Package to the CCBES for coordination with the appropriate command.

BLOCK 16 – Using Command Review

CCBES forwards the Change Request package to the Using Command.

BLOCK 17 – Lead Command Review

CCBES forwards the Change Request package to the Lead Command.

BLOCK 18 – Lead/Using Command Response Received

Upon receipt of Lead/Using Command’s feedback, the CCBES will update the organization’s
configuration tracking system and advise the Project Manager as follows:
 38                                                      ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012


Lead/Using Command Approval: CCBES will notify the Project Manager that Lead/Using
Command concurrence was obtained.

Lead/Using Command disapproval: CCBES will notify the Project Manager that assigned
Action Items were received and the Project Manager will resolve all open issues before
approval/authorization is given and work the corrective actions.

BLOCK 19 – Update of Change Request Package

The Project Manager ensures the Change Request Package reflects the Lead/Using Command’s
feedback and identifies the elements required for the CCB package. The CCB package may
require elements such as:

Cover Letter [As Required (i.e. Summary, Routing, Case Number)]
CCB Checklist
Change document (e.g., AF Form 1067 w/ Part IV completed, AFMC Form 518, DD Form 1692,
etc.)
Modification Proposal Analysis
Risk Assessment Work Sheet
CCB Briefing Charts
Other Supporting Documentation (e.g., Coordination Documentation, Market Research, etc.)

BLOCK 20 - Assembles Package

The Project Manager assembles the final CCB package and forwards it to the CCB Executive
Secretariat. The CCB Briefing Charts developed by the Project Manager should be based upon
the standard CCB Briefing Chart template. The standard CCB Briefing Charts are considered a
minimum requirement and additional charts/information may be required.

BLOCK 21 – CCB Package Preparation

The CCBES receives the CCB package from the Project Manager and develops the CCB agenda.

BLOCK 22 – CCB Package Readiness Review

The CCBES reviews the final CCB package for accuracy and completeness.

BLOCK 23 – Distribute CCB Package for Review

The CCBES distributes the CCB package to all CCB members for review. The CCB Briefing
Charts and agenda are required to be distributed to the CCB members at least five working days
prior to the scheduled CCB. Additional information from the CCB package may be distributed if
necessary.
ROBINSAFBI63-104 3 MAY 2012                                                               39


BLOCK 24 – Set Up CCB Meeting

The CCBES schedules a CCB meeting for all CCB members with an interest in the Change
Package. The CCBES ensures the meeting location is reserved and that any necessary
equipment (audio,visual,Telecon,VTC,etc) is available.

Note: The CCB and Flight Readiness Review Board (FRRB) can be held together for
Temporary Modifications and other programs as approved by Chief Engineer.

BLOCK 25 – Obtain SPM/PGM CCB Decision

The CCB is the functional review of the proposed change. The Project Manager briefs the
Change Request to the CCB. The SPM or the delegated CCB Chair, under the Board’s
advisement, provides the final disposition to the Project Manager for the CCB package.

BLOCK 26 – Publish Minutes

Within five working days of the completion of the CCB, the CCBES publishes and distributes
the CCB minutes and attendance listing to the CCB members and other applicable organizations.
The CCB minutes should capture the CCB Chair’s decisions and be reviewed/signed by the
presiding CCB Chair prior to distribution. The CCBES archives a complete copy of the CCB
package and updates the organization’s configuration tracking system.
