BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                        INSTRUCTION 32-1024
                                                                                          5 APRIL 2006

                                                                                      Civil Engineering

                                                      USE OF THE ROBINS CONFERENCE CENTER



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 78 ABW/XPRA (Ms. Cathy Cheshire)                  Certified by: 78 ABW/XPR (Mr. Wayne Schmidt)
Supersedes ROBINSAFBI32-1024, 1 April 2002                                                   Pages: 3
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction aligns with AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities and implements AFI 32-1024, Stan-
dard Facility Requirements. It applies to all Warner Robins Air Logistics Center (WR-ALC) staff agen-
cies and tenant units located on Robins Air Force Base (AFB), and other organizations, which have
received approval to use the facility.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision corrects or enhances readability and clarity.


1. General. The objective of this regulation is to ensure effective use of the Robins Conference Center
and the Annex. The center will normally be used for large conferences with a high-ranking attendee of 0-6
or higher; the majority of those attendees being in temporary duty (TDY) status to Robins AFB. Weekly,
monthly, or quarterly meetings, or other routine gatherings of organizations assigned to Robins AFB are
not consistent with the Conference Center's mission. Access and operations of the Conference Center are
subject to change in connection with higher force protection conditions. A minimum of 20 attendees is
required to utilize the large conference room or the annex.

2. Location, Description, and Utilization. The Robins Conference Center, Building 560 is located at
the intersection of Warner Robins Street and Club Drive. Normal hours of operation are 0700 to 1700,
Monday through Friday. The building will be vacated by all personnel and locked no later than (NLT)
1730 hours. The Robins Conference Center is not manned on weekends. Requests to use the facility for
other than normal duty hours may be approved with the understanding that the requester provides funding
for the overtime required to adequately man the facility. Arrangements for funding are processed using an
AF IMT 616, Fund Cite Authorization (FCA) for local organizations, and a Military Interdepartmen-
tal Purchase Request (MIPR) for outside organizations to transfer funds from the user’s organizational
account to the 78th Air Base Wing’s account. Names and phone numbers of personnel to assist with
arrangements are provided by the conference center staff.
2                                                               ROBINSAFBI32-1024 5 APRIL 2006


    2.1. The main facility of the Robins Conference Center includes a large 106-seat conference room,
    foyer, lobby, coat area, audiovisual room, 16-seat small conference room, executive suite, staff
    offices, kitchen area, restrooms, alcove with multiple telephones with DSN service and associated
    equipment to provide conference amenities.
    2.2. The Annex to the Robins Conference Center seats 118 people with chairs or 70 with tables and
    chairs. Seating areas are equipped with lecterns and equipment to be used in the projection of brief-
    ings. The Annex also has a small lobby, mini kitchen area, restrooms, and a telephone/message area
    equipped with Class A telephones.
       2.2.1. The WR-ALC/CC and 78 ABW/CC have the right to cancel scheduled conferences due to
       higher command priority. The office of primary responsibility (OPR) for scheduling a conference
       will have the opportunity to rebook to another timeframe. Offices of primary responsibility who
       schedule the main facility also will have the opportunity at initial booking time to reserve the
       Annex. The Annex also may be reserved independently. In either case, reservations are subject to
       availability.

3. Responsibilities. The 78 ABW Plans Division (78 ABW/XP) operates the Robins Conference Center,
and the center's staff approves all scheduling.
    3.1. Each Organization:
       3.1.1. Reserves the Robins Conference Center by calling extension 6-7400, DSN 468-7400 or
       commercial 478-926-7400, a minimum of 90 days (when known) before the start of the confer-
       ence. Information required includes name, telephone number, and organization of the OPR (pri-
       mary and alternate), title of the conference, dates of conference, highest-ranking attendee(s),
       meeting hours, security classification level, and total number of attendees. Other data pertinent to
       proper conference support may also be requested.
       3.1.2. Complies with all existing procedures for hosting guests such as arrangement of quarters,
       transportation, messing, etc. (AFI 34-01, Air Force Lodging Program).
       3.1.3. Is required to provide a receptionist and kitchen workers to prepare and serve food and bev-
       erages.
       3.1.4. The OPR or alternate, the receptionist, and the kitchen workers meet with the conference
       center staff at least 2 weeks prior to the conference start date for a pre-conference meeting to
       determine all requirements for the conference and assure proper use of the facilities. In the event
       the OPR has hosted conferences at the center previously, this meeting may be waived at the discre-
       tion of the center's staff.
       3.1.5. Informs conference attendees that smoking is prohibited in the building; food and bever-
       ages, other than water, are not permitted in the conference rooms; parking location is on the north
       side of the building with overflow parking at the Officers’ Club; windows are to remain closed and
       locked at all times; and there will be no alcoholic beverages on the premises at any time.
       3.1.6. In the event the conference center will be providing beverages, there is a $1.50 per person
       per day fee to offset the cost of supplies and beverages (coffee, cream, sugar or artificial sweet-
       ener, orange juice, lemonade, soft drinks, tea bags, napkins and cups). The fee is payable to the
       conference center's staff at the beginning of the first day of the conference.
ROBINSAFBI32-1024 5 APRIL 2006                                                                                3


     3.1.7. Ensures that all briefing materials are compatible with installed projection equipment and
     that briefers deliver their material to the conference center visual presentation technician at the
     earliest possible time.
     3.1.8. Provides any additional equipment and resources required for the conference attendees and
     briefers.
     3.1.9. Provides conference agenda, names of workers, list of attendees and reserved seating chart,
     if applicable, to the center’s staff no later than 5 duty days prior to the start date. If this information
     is not provided in the timeframe requested, it is the center staff's option to cancel his/her prior
     approval to use the center.
     3.1.10. Is responsible for assuring appropriate security measures are taken to assure classified
     material (Secret) is briefed and protected in accordance with Air Force standards. This includes,
     but is not limited to, monitoring the admission of personnel to the facility during classified presen-
     tations, and assuring security is maintained by posting two individuals to guard doors. The confer-
     ence center is only cleared for SECRET.
     3.1.11. The OPR provides the WR-ALC Protocol Office a list with the rank, name, organization,
     and base of attendees NLT 5 duty days prior to the scheduled visit when the Commander of the
     Warner-Robins Air Logistics Center (WR-ALC/CC) is involved in the conference.
     3.1.12. The OPR notifies the WR-ALC Protocol Office a list with the rank, name and title for con-
     ferences with distinguished visitors (DVs).
  3.2. The Robins Conference Center Staff:
     3.2.1. Maintains the approved conference schedule.
     3.2.2. Notifies in writing to the OPR reserving the center, of approval or disapproval for use of the
     center.
     3.2.3. Operates and maintains the Robins Conference Center main facility, Annex, audiovisual
     equipment, and ensures safety/security procedures are enforced.
     3.2.4. Procures supplies required for the day-to-day operation of the facility.
     3.2.5. Briefs OPR and staff on the use and operating procedures of the facility and equipment.
     3.2.6. Provides supplies and refreshments upon request.



                                                THERESA C. CARTER, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander
