BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                        63-510

                                                                               27 MARCH 2013

                                                                                     Acquisition

                                                              DEFICIENCY REPORTING,
                                                      INVESTIGATION, RESOLUTION AND
                                                               EXHIBIT MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: AFLCMC/EZGEDA                                              Certified by: AFLCMC/EZGED
                                                                                    (Jani Le)
                                                                                    Pages: 19
Supersedes:   ROBINSAFBI63-510,
              8 July 2010


This instruction aligns with TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigating and
Resolution, AFMAN 23-110, Basic USAF Supply Manual, DLAR 4155.24, Aircraft and
Equipment Maintenance Management, Air Force Materiel Command Instruction (AFMCI) 63-
510, Deficiency Reporting, Investigation and Resolution and AFMCI 21-130, Depot
Maintenance Materiel Control. It applies to all Robins Air Force Base (RAFB) wings/groups
that manage USAF weapon systems/end items/ and Defense Distribution Depot, Warner Robins,
Georgia (DDWG). This instruction assigns key personnel responsibilities, outlines procedures
and standardizes the deficiency reporting and investigating process and exhibit handling. It will
be used to supplement the information contained within applicable technical data and
instructions to administer the deficiency reporting process at the RAFB. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form
847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records     Disposition     Schedule    (RDS)      located    at   https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.
 2                                                                          ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.


        1.     Key Responsibilities. .............................................................................................    2
        2.     DR Flow Procedures. .............................................................................................      4
        3.     Exhibit Processing and Handling. ..........................................................................           10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       12

Attachment 2—ROBINSAFB DEFICIENCY REPORTING FLOWCHART                                                                                15


1. Key Responsibilities.
     1.1. The Single Point of Contact Office (SPOCO), AFLCMC/EZGEDA, is the base
     designated OPR for the deficiency reporting (DR) process and is responsible for screening
     PQDRs, EIs and T&Es submitted through the Joint Deficiency Reporting System (JDRS) on
     RAFB managed weapon systems/end items/commodities. The SPOCO is responsible for
     developing policy/procedures and monitoring the health of the DR process. In addition,
     SPOCO is the base OPR for TO 00-35D-54.
        1.1.1. SPOCO will conduct periodic center level Deficiency Reporting, Investigation and
        Resolution (DRI&R) meetings.
        1.1.2. SPOCO will conduct annual Staff Assistance Visits (SAV) within all maintenance
        and acquisition/sustainment groups involved in the deficiency reporting process. These
        SAVs will be performed during the first quarter of the calendar year.
     1.2. The Program Manager (PM) implements the deficiency reporting process for assigned
     systems/end items/commodities and will review deficiency report data at least quarterly.
     Program management responsibilities for deficiency reporting reside at both system/end item
     and sub-system/National Stock Number (NSN) levels. The terms System Program Manager
     (SPM) and Sub-System Program Manager (SSPM) will be used throughout this instruction in
     order to clearly define and differentiate the PM responsibilities outlined in TO 00-35D-54.
     Depending on their portfolio, a PM may have responsibilities at both levels.
        1.2.1. The SPM is defined as the single manager with Operational Safety, Suitability,
        and Effectiveness (OSS&E) responsibilities at the platform, system, or end item level.
        The SPM will develop a DRI&R charter to document the management process for
        maintaining oversight of the DR process for their assigned system(s). The SPM has final
        authority for categorization of a DR. The SPM will consolidate and maintain visibility of
        system level metrics to detect trends and take appropriate action for all DRs against their
        system, regardless of where the DR may be assigned. The SPM will establish warranty
        DR guidance for system level warranty items. The SPM will conduct quarterly system
        level Materiel Improvement Project/DR Review Boards (MIPRB) as outlined in
        paragraph 1.5 of this instruction. The SPM will review all Category I (CAT I), Critical
        Safety Items (CSI) and Mishap/High Accident Potential (MHAP) related DRs and take
ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013                                                                    3


       appropriate actions to mitigate the risk to affected systems. Procedures shall be
       developed by the PM to ensure the immediate response to a CAT I DR will ensure safe
       operation of the system/item and the mitigation action is approved by the Chief Engineer
       (CE).
       1.2.2. The SSPM is defined as the single manager with OSS&E responsibility at the sub-
       system, product group, or item level. The SSPM will develop a charter to document
       implementation and management of the DR process for assigned product lines. The
       SSPM will immediately notify the SPM of all CAT I, CSI and MHAP related DRs. The
       SSPM is responsible for notifying the originator and other affected organizations of any
       safety mitigation actions mandated by the SPM. This acknowledgement may include an
       approved work-around, restriction to item usage and/or inspection/Time Compliance
       Technical Order (TCTO) to determine the full impact of the DR condition. The SSPM
       will assign Action Points to support the DR program within each product line. The SSPM
       will consolidate and maintain visibility of sub-system level metrics to detect trends and
       take appropriate actions. They will ensure timely resolution and closing actions on all
       DRs. The SSPM will establish warranty guidance on all items other than aircraft level
       items. The SSPM will conduct quarterly sub-system level MIPRBs as outlined in
       paragraph 1.5 of this instruction.
   1.3. The CE is the senior technical authority and advisor to the SPM or SSPM. The CE is
   responsible for technical activities within the DR process to ensure OSS&E compliance. The
   CE will develop procedures which ensure the appropriate review of all deficiency reports and
   their closing actions and will approve closure of all CAT I, MHAP related and CSI DRs.
   These procedures will be documented in the DRI&R charter. As part of the DRI&R charter,
   the CE will establish and document local procedures to request DR exhibits for teardown and
   analysis. The exhibit investigation procedures should be specific enough to allow the Action
   Point (AP) to determine when an exhibit investigation is required. Investigations are
   restricted to those situations involving new failure modes, suspected safety of flight defects,
   workmanship, warranty failures on new or newly reworked items, requests by safety
   investigation authorities, or as required by specific trend analysis conclusions. The CE
   approves investigation and resolution actions on all CAT I DRs.
   1.4. The AP is designated by the PM to administer and oversee the DR process. Their
   continuous involvement is key to the success of the deficiency reporting program. The AP
   will ensure that each DR is reviewed by the appropriate subject matter experts as necessary,
   to establish necessary actions to be taken to resolve the deficiency. This review must be
   conducted within the established guidelines for the DR category and will include a review of
   the item deficiency history and if needed contacting the Originating Point (OP) for any
   additional or missing information needed to work the report. The review will determine if an
   investigation is warranted and the appropriate avenue for conducting the investigation, i.e.
   Sustaining Engineering Project, local project through base facilities, organic test facilities at
   other locations, or internal review. Formal documentation of each investigation will be
   maintained and periodic reviews will be conducted during the investigation.
1.5. MIPRBs will be conducted at least quarterly by the SPM and/or SSPM. Each PM
shall chair or designate a chairperson for the MIPRB. The CE will provide technical approval of
MIPRB activities described in TO 00-35D-54. CSI deficiencies for aviation systems will be
 4                                                      ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013


reviewed and trended during the MIPRB. MIPRB minutes will be kept for all review boards and
will contain the information outlined in TO 00-35D-54.

        1.5.1. The SPM will conduct a system level MIPRB at least quarterly. This review will
        include those DRs maintained and processed at RAFB and the other Complexes assigned
        to their system(s). The Weapon System Supply Chain Managers (WSSCM) will provide
        the information and metrics for the system MIPRB. SSPM and/or their CE will attend the
        system level MIPRB as required.
        1.5.2. The SSPM will conduct a sub-system level MIPRB at least quarterly. This review
        will include those DRs maintained and processed within their assigned product lines.
        Information discussed at the sub-system level review will be rolled up for inclusion in the
        system level MIPRB as required.
     1.6. The Foreign Military Sales (FMS) Program plays an important part in the DR process.
     The Air Force has a Technical Coordination Program/Technical Coordination Group
     (TCP/TCG) designed to provide follow-on support to continue improving serviceability,
     maintainability, and reliability for FMS equipment and systems. Foreign countries
     participating in the TCP who operate equipment and systems manufactured in the United
     States submit DRs through the FMS Program office at RAFB. This is accomplished by
     personnel performing the following functions:
        1.6.1. The Screening Point within the FMS Home Office or support organization
        receives the deficiency from the participant country and inputs the data into JDRS.
            1.6.1.1. Once the data is loaded into JDRS, SPOCO receives the DR and determines
            the responsible organization that will investigate the deficiency. SPOCO screening
            points review the DRs for proper categorization, validity and correctness of entries
            and workflows the DR to the appropriate Action Point unit.
            1.6.1.2. If requested, SPOCO will assist the TCP/TCG in resolving any technical
            problems they may encounter while attempting to load the data into JDRS.
        1.6.2. The AP initiates a course of action by coordination with engineering, item
        managers, equipment, and quality specialists. The AP provides status updates, closing
        actions through coordination with the Originating Point (OP) and exhibit disposition
        instructions to the OP. The AP shall monitor the DR through resolution and direct all
        requests for additional information to the TCP/TCG Screening Point.
        1.6.3. The Support Point (SP) works with the AP by determining root cause,
        recommends corrective and preventative actions, and conducts investigations and trend
        analyses. The SP provides the AP with investigation findings and repair actions to close
        the DR.
     1.7. Each program management organization shall notify the SPOCO office of any personnel
     moves into or out of DR SPM, SSPM, CE and AP positions. The SPOCO maintains a list of
     all current key DR positions to ensure all DR reports are properly routed and key personnel
     notified within the established timeline goals.
2. DR Flow Procedures. The RAFB DR Flowchart can be viewed in Attachment 2.
     2.1. Originator Responsibilities:
ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013                                                                5


     2.1.1. Identify and documents conditions which limit or restrict an item or system from
     being used for its intended purpose.
     2.1.2. Comply with the originator responsibilities specified by TO 00-35D-54, chapters
     2,3,5, and 6.
     2.1.3. Notify the applicable group quality organization or group OPR when a suspected
     part/materiel deficiency exists.
     2.1.4. Retain all available packaging containers, shipping documents, serviceable tags,
     labels and other documentation pertaining to the deficient materiel.
     2.1.5. Give the designated group quality representative or group OPR any information
     that will aid in preparing/processing the DR.
     2.1.6. Hold all items required for exhibit purposes, ensuring that deficient materiel is
     properly identified, segregated and protected.
  2.2. Originating    Point   (Warner    Robins     Air   Logistics   Complex     [WR-ALC])
  Responsibilities:
     2.2.1. Comply with the OP responsibilities specified by TO 00-35D-54, chapters 2,3,5
     and 6.
     2.2.2. Ensure DRs are prepared and processed as follows:
     2.2.2.1. DRs will be prepared IAW TO 00-35D-54 and classified either CAT I or
     Category II (CAT II). Ensure the correct Support Team (ST) is entered into the report by
     using the ST Lookup tool within JDRS.
     2.2.2.2. Ensure the reported discrepancy is valid by checking for form, fit and function.
     Ensure all pertinent data is loaded into the report to include contract number, requisition
     number, end item information, supply unit for shipping and exhibit disposition data.
     2.2.2.3. A record file will be established for each deficiency reported. As a minimum,
     the log must contain the report control number; the name of the originator responsible for
     processing the DR, the NSN, nomenclature, JDRS submission date, AP assigned and the
     date the deficiency was discovered.
     2.2.2.4. Exhibits will be routed through the Weapon System Support Center (WSSC) or
     Shop Service Center (SSC). The deficiency exhibit holding activity is the Exhibit
     Holding Warehouse-Robins AFB unit within JDRS.
     2.2.2.5. Exhibits will be kept in a secure and appropriate holding area separated from
     serviceable and repairable assets until the exhibits are turned in to the WSSC or SSC.
     2.2.2.6. Track the DR progress weekly until it is closed via JDRS. If no action has been
     taken on the DR within 30 days from input, the originating point will contact the action
     point to request an updated status.
     2.2.2.7. Ensure all follow-up actions are documented (Tech Dialog) and continued as
     often as needed to assure a response if exhibit disposition instructions are not received
     within DR timeline goals. Once received the initial disposition instructions shall be
     followed to ensure exhibits are not mis-routed or mis-shipped.
6                                                    ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013


       2.2.2.8. An information copy of the DR will be furnished to the engineering/planning
       section, scheduling/inventory control section and production section of the group where
       the deficient item is used.
          2.2.2.8.1. An information copy of a software-related DR will be furnished to the
          software support center section of the group where the software is used.
          2.2.2.8.2. Ensure the interim reply from the software DR AP includes information
          on action taken or planned, assigned control number and priority.
       2.2.2.9. Provide feedback to all concerned activities regarding DR status and corrective
       action. Ensure individual/organization originating the DR is informed of the closing
       action and rebuttal option.
       2.2.2.10. Credit is automatically authorized for Product Quality Deficiency Reports
       (PQDR) when an exhibit is turned in to supply in condition code “Q”. When credit is not
       authorized, TO 00-35D-54, paragraph 4.11 applies.
       2.2.2.11. When notified that an item or materiel is deficient, make sure only deficient
       materiel in WSSC or SSC and shop areas are placed in a hold status. Due-ins from
       maintenance items must be processed IAW prescribed directives.
       2.2.2.12. For each item requiring separate identification, prepare two DD Form 1575
       (Suspended Tag-Materiel), and two DD Form 2332 (Product Quality Deficiency
       Report Exhibit), ensure that Report Control Number (RCN) and Deficiency Report
       Unique Identifier (DRUI), signature, stamp and or printed name are on both tags. IAW
       TO 00-35D-54 Items will be condition coded "Q". Place one DD Form 1575, one DD
       Form 2332 and a copy of the DR in an envelope and securely attach to the exhibit.
          2.2.2.12.1. Determine the correct materiel classification and if classified, annotate
          accordingly the DD Form 1575 and DD Form 2332 attached to the exhibit. Do not
          put materiel classification on the DD Form 1575 and 2332 that will be affixed to the
          outside of the shipping containers.
          2.2.2.12.2. Place remaining DD Form 1575 and 2332 in an envelope, along with a
          copy of the DR with a note stating, "Attach to outside of packaging container."
       2.2.2.13 Notify the appropriate WSSC or SSC personnel that the exhibit is ready for
       turn-in. Post the document number (assigned to transfer exhibits from WR-ALC to the
       holding activity) in the DR record file and tech dialog in JDRS.
    2.3. WR-ALC Scheduling/Inventory Control Functions
       2.3.1. When notified that the exhibit items are ready for turn-in, prepare the necessary
       documents and forward the materiel to the appropriate WSSC/SSC receiving and
       processing function not later than the second day after receipt of the DR message.
       2.3.2. Furnish document numbers (for control purposes) to the OP, applicable flight,
       squadron and group OPRs.
    2.4. SPOCO Responsibilities:
       2.4.1. Monitor JDRS daily for new or transferred DRs.
ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013                                                               7


     2.4.2. Screen the new DRs to ensure that RAFB has management responsibility for the
     weapon system/end item/commodity reported (DO43A/DO86).
         2.4.2.1. Transfer misrouted DRs to the appropriate ST (when known) or back to the
         Air Force Clearinghouse (when the ST is unknown).
         2.4.2.2. Review reports for accuracy and validity of information provided.
         2.4.2.2.1. PQDR reports must have the following information or the report will be
         rejected to the originator: New items must have Manufacturer name, any attachment
         to the JDRS record or an annotation from the originator that missing data is not
         available. Reworked or Repaired items must have Last Rework Activity (LRA), any
         attachment to the JDRS record or an annotation from the originator that missing data
         is not available. Unk or N/A must include any attachment to the JDRS record or an
         annotation from the originator that missing data is not available.
         2.4.2.3. Verify the reports are properly classified as a PQDR, Engineering
         Investigation (EI) or Test and Evaluation (T&E).
         2.4.2.4. Any changes made to the report by SPOCO personnel will be annotated in
         the Additional Comments field. This annotation will include the fields updated by
         SPOCO and the initials of the individual making the change.
     2.4.3. Assign and forward DRs to the appropriate Action Point unit within JDRS.
         2.4.3.1. Upon receipt of a CAT I DR, SPOCO will make positive contact with at
         least one of the following: SPM/SSPM, CE, AP or their replacement within two
         hours and will also notify everyone on the SPOCO POC listing for that organization
         via e-mail.
         2.4.3.2. All CAT I DRs shall be forwarded within two hours to the appropriate
         Action Point unit.
         2.4.3.3. All CAT II DRs shall be routed accordingly within two days.
     2.4.4. When SPOCO receives an invalid report or the report cannot be validated the
     report will be rejected to the OP with a list of items/information required to process the
     report.
     2.4.5. Will prepare center level metrics for the monthly Engineering Advisory Board
     (EAB) briefing. SPOCO will provide the metrics using data extracted from JDRS.
     2.4.6. Will periodically hold SPOCO DR meetings. The meeting will address any
     concerns or changes in the DR process, exhibit timelines and exhibit goals metrics. As a
     minimum, SPOCO personnel, APs, SPs and OPs will attend. Other personnel involved in
     the DR process are encouraged to attend.
  2.5. Action Point Responsibilities:
     2.5.1. Upon receipt of a DR from SPOCO, the AP will review for correct categorization,
     completeness and accuracy of all information contained in the report. If additional
     information is needed the AP will contact the OP to obtain the information.
         2.5.1.1. If the DR is invalid or validity cannot be determined perform credit reversal
         IAW TO 00-35D-54 Para 4.11.
8                                                   ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013


       2.5.1.2. Ensure CAT I reports meet the qualifications of TO 00-35D-54. If not,
       negotiate with the OP to try and change the report category. If unable to reach
       agreement, the PM will have final authority on categorization of all DRs. When
       downgrading the report, provide an explanation to the originating point in JDRS via
       the tech dialog function. The Additional Comments field shall be annotated with
       rationale for downgrade action to include the individual contacted concerning the
       downgrade.
       2.5.1.3. If the item is new, special emphasis will be placed on ensuring that block 9
       (Manufacturing data) is accurate. If the item was repaired ensure Block 12C (Last
       Rework Activity (LRA) data) is accurate. Accurate LRA data is critical for the
       organic support point activities to properly track those reports closed prior to being
       work flowed to the organic support points at RAFB.
       2.5.1.4. Promptly acknowledge receipt of all DRs as soon as possible, but not later
       than 24 hours for CAT I DRs and 10 calendar days for CAT II DRs.
       2.5.1.5. For CAT I DRs, notify SPM and CE for all affected systems. As part of the
       acknowledgement for CAT I DRs, enough information should be provided to mitigate
       possible safety issues until a final resolution is determined and fielded.
       2.5.1.6. AP will assign Materiel Improvement Project (MIP) numbers, as required, on
       those DRs deemed necessary.
    2.5.2. The AP, in conjunction with subject matter experts (Equipment Specialists (ES),
    Engineers, Quality Assurance Specialist (QAS), etc.) when required, will perform a table-
    top evaluation of the DR to determine the extent of the investigation required. They will
    use the investigation criteria provided by the CE. Along with the investigation criteria,
    they will review the information contained in the DR, historical records and trend data. If
    the report is closed administratively or as an acceptable risk, a closing report will be
    initiated by the AP.
       2.5.2.1. If required, the AP will assign the appropriate SP unit within JDRS.
       2.5.2.2. For DRs received with a Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) source of supply
       (SOS), DR assignment to the AP will be based on NHA/END item; If NHA is also
       DLA managed end item will be used to assign the DR. The AP will forward the
       report to DLA using the Inter-Service Application Programming Interface (IAPI)
       transfer system after any data corrections are made. For DRs forwarded to Defense
       Contract Management Agency (DCMA) or other Services, the AP will select the
       appropriate Support Point unit during the data review. The AP will update the report
       as needed with information provided by the other service AP or SP throughout the
       investigation.
    2.5.3. If a credit reversal is deemed appropriate, annotate report per TO 00-35D-54,
    paragraph 4.11.
       2.5.3.1. When a credit reversal is justified, AP will annotate the rationale for the
       credit reversal in the closing report. NOTE: For CAT I, MHAP, and CSI deficiencies,
       closing actions must be coordinated with System Chief/Lead Engineers prior to
       closing in JDRS.
ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013                                                                  9


     2.5.4. If the AP and subject matter experts (when required) determine no further action is
     necessary, they will close the report administratively.
     2.5.4.1. Select the most applicable closing action in the “Closing Action” field, in the
     “reason for closing” field put in the rationale for closing administratively. Populate the
     remaining asterisk fields with the appropriate responses; all text/comment boxes must be
     populated.
     2.5.5. If the report requires exhibit investigation, the AP shall:
         2.5.5.1. Approve the preliminary disposition request.
         2.5.5.2. If the SP is an AF organic depot facility or contractor, provide exhibit
         disposition instructions to the OP as soon as possible but within 30 days, with
         targeted goals of 24 hours for CAT I DRs and 10 days for CAT II DRs.
         2.5.5.3. Instruct the OP (JDRS tech dialog) to continue holding the exhibit an
         additional 60 days if the SP is another DoD component.
     2.5.6. Monitor the progress of the investigation to include exhibit movement/status and
     SP investigation efforts, and follow up as necessary.
     2.5.7. Provide status updates to the JDRS record as significant events occur, but not less
     than every 90 days.
     2.5.8. Review the SP investigation findings with subject matter experts when necessary,
     to ensure that root cause, corrective action and preventive action, if applicable, have been
     addressed.
         2.5.8.1. If SP reply is inadequate, notify SP via tech dialog and request re-evaluation.
         2.5.8.2. If SP reply is adequate, finalize investigation report of DR and update the
         closing action, as appropriate.
     2.5.9. If the investigation results confirm an invalid DR was submitted, request credit
     reversal IAW TO 00-35D-54 paragraph 4.11.
     2.5.10. Periodically review/query JDRS for closed deficiency reports to ensure that no
     exhibits remain in the exhibit storage area. Notify the Exhibit holding activity of exhibit
     disposition instructions if exhibits are shown in a Warehouse Location.
  2.6. Support Point Responsibilities
     2.6.1. Acknowledge receipt of AP’s request for investigation assistance in JDRS.
     2.6.2. Schedule the exhibit for evaluation upon receipt of notification of exhibit receipt
     IAW the guidelines established in AFMCI 21-130.
     2.6.3. Accomplish investigations as requested by the AP within 15 days for MHAP CAT
     I DRs, within 20 days for all other CAT I DRs and within 30 days for CAT II DRs after
     exhibit is inducted for evaluation.
     2.6.4. Notify the AP of changes to the status of the investigation as changes occur. As a
     minimum, provide an interim or final reply to the AP within 15 days for MHAP CAT I
     DRs, within 20 days for all other CAT I DRs and within 30 days for CAT II DRs.
 10                                                     ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013


       2.6.5. Determine cause of the reported condition. Identify failed part (part number,
       NSN), test procedure, software, process etc.
       2.6.6. Recommend corrective and preventive action as necessary.
       2.6.7. Evaluate opportunities to         incorporate     corrective   measures     on    the
       system/equipment production line.
       2.6.8. Provide a closing report of findings and actions taken to the AP. NOTE: It is vital
       that the final disposition instructions and if required, the final supply condition codes are
       followed to ensure proper and timely turn-in or processing of exhibits.
       2.6.9. Process exhibits that are no longer required for analysis in accordance with
       AP/Item Manager direction and/or their condition and dollar value. This includes
       replacing the DD Form 1575 with the appropriate tag. If repair of the exhibit is
       authorized, return to serviceable condition by processing them ahead of similar
       Management of Items Subject to Repair (MISTR) items IAW AFMCI 21-130.
3. Exhibit Processing and Handling. NOTE: For organic investigations, if the AP is told there
aren’t funds available to process an exhibit in for investigation he/she should go to the group
Production Management Officer/Production Management Specialist for further clarification. If
the SP is told there aren’t funds available to perform the investigation he/she should discuss with
their Planner, Scheduler or Retail Item Manager to ensure the Funds Classification Reference
Number or Program Control Number is correct.
   3.1. The DR Originator shall process the exhibit(s) for locally generated DRs IAW TO 00-
   35D-54, paragraph 6.5.
   3.2. OP shall process the exhibit(s) for locally generated DRs per instructions contained in
   TO 00-35D-54, paragraph 6.6 and shall ensure that any exhibit disposition instructions that
   are received are processed for shipment through the applicable Retail Item Manager or are
   forwarded to the exhibit holding activity if a change of condition is required.
   3.3. RAFB Receiving and Storage Activity (DLA) shall:
       3.3.1. Be responsible for storage and control of DR exhibits while in DLA possession in
       accordance with the TO 00-35D-54. Ensure no package or container is opened without
       the presence of a government Quality Assurance Representative (QAR) or SPOCO
       representative.
       3.3.2. Central Receiving shall induct incoming DR exhibits (condition code “Q”) and
       process to the appropriate exhibit holding facility for either “unclassified” or “classified”
       exhibits. Additionally during the induction, the RCN shall be placed in the “Lot Number”
       field in DSS. This shall be accomplished within 2 days for CAT I and 3 days for CAT II.
       If the RCN cannot be located the serial number of the exhibit will be input in its place
       3.3.3. Central Receiving shall initiate an “Info only” WebSDR upon receipt of a Q
       condition exhibit.
   3.4. The AP shall:
       3.4.1. Monitor exhibit movement via JDRS database.
ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013                                                                  11


     3.4.2. Request the status from the OP if exhibit release or shipment has not been
     confirmed within: Three calendar days for a CAT I DR exhibit, thirteen calendar days
     for a CAT II DR exhibit.
     3.4.3. Request OP initiate tracer action if exhibit has not been received within 30 days of
     shipment.
     3.4.4. When notified that an exhibit has been held by the exhibit holding activity for 30
     days, provide disposition instructions or instruct the exhibit holding activity to extend the
     holding period.
     3.4.5. At completion of the DR investigation, provide final exhibit disposition
     instructions to the support point. If the exhibit was not required and the DR closed,
     provide disposition instructions to the origination point.
  3.5. The SP shall:
     3.5.1. Schedule the exhibit for evaluation upon notification of exhibit receipt.
     3.5.2. After exhibit evaluation, process the exhibit in accordance with AP instructions.




                                           MITCHEL H BUTIKOFER, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 12                                                ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigating and Resolution, 1 November 2011
AFMAN 23-110, Basic USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
DLAR 4155.24, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 21 July 1993
AFMCI 63-510, Deficiency Reporting, Investigation and resolution, 2 May 2006
AFMCI 21-130, Depot Maintenance Materiel Control, 15 November 2007
Adopted forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1575, Suspended Tag-Materiel
DD Form 2332, Product Quality Deficiency Report Exhibit

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AIDR—Acceptance Inspection Deficiency Report
AP—Action Point
CAT I—Category I
CAT II—Category II
CE—Chief Engineer
CSI—Critical Safety Item
DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency
DDWG—Defense Distribution Depot, Warner Robins, Georgia
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DR—Deficiency Report
DRI&R—Deficiency Reporting, Investigating and Resolution
DRUI—Deficiency Report Unique Identifier
DSS—Distribution Standard System
EI—Engineering Investigation
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013                            13


IAPI—Inter-Service application Programming Interface
JDRS—Joint Deficiency Reporting System
LRA—Last Rework Activity
MHAP—Mishap/High Accident Potential
MIP—Materiel Improvement Project
MIPRB—Materiel Improvement Project Review Board
MISTR—Management of Items Subject To Repair
NSN—National Stock Number
OP—Originating Point
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
PM—Program Manager
PQDR—Product Quality Deficiency Report
QAR—Quality Assurance Representative
RCN—Report Control Number
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAV—Staff Assistance Visit
SOS—Source of Supply
SP—Support Point
SPM—System Program Manager
SPOCO—Single Point of Contact Office
SSC—Shop Service Center
SSPM—Subsystem Program Manager
ST—Support Team
TCG—Technical Coordination Group
TCP—Technical Coordination Program
TCTO—Time Compliance Technical Order
T&E—Test and Evaluation
USAF—United States Air Force
WebSDR—Web Based Supply Deficiency Report
RAFB—Robins Air Force Base
WRALC—Warner Robins Air Logistics Complex
14                                  ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013


WSSC—Weapon System Support Center
ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013                                                               15


                                        Attachment 2
                ROBINSAFB DEFICIENCY REPORTING FLOWCHART

A2.1. The following 5 pages contain the RAFB Deficiency Reporting Flowchart. The flowchart
contains processes for Originators, Originating Points, Screening Points, Action Points, Support
Points and MIP Review Board members.

Figure A2.1. Deficiency Reporting Process (Part 1)
 16                                                  ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013


Figure A2.2. Deficiency Reporting Process (Part 2)
ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013                       17


Figure A2.3. Deficiency Reporting Process (Part 3)
 18                                                  ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013


Figure A2.4. Deficiency Reporting Process (Part 4)
ROBINSAFBI63-510 27 MARCH 2013                       19


Figure A2.5. Deficiency Reporting Process (Part 5)
