BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                      32-7064

                                                                                 5 JUNE 2013

                                                                             Civil Engineering

                                                                INTEGRATED NATURAL
                                                             RESOURCES MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 78 CEG/CEAN                                                         Certified by: 78 CEG
                                                                              (Mr. Otis Hicks)
Supersedes:   ROBINSAFBI32-7064,                                                       Pages: 8
              5 January 2010


This instruction addresses multiple natural resources issues including hunting and fishing,
wildlife damage control, trapping, wildlife and plant hazards, operating off-road/all-terrain
vehicles in natural areas, urban forest management, firewood collection, and landscaping
practices. This instruction aligns with AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, and implements
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management (INRM). It applies to all persons on
Robins Air Force Base (RAFB). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Descriptions of the hunting and fishing rules were reduced, the water conservation rules were
removed, and the goals and duties of the integrated process teams responsible for urban forest
management and pesticide use oversight were defined. Office symbols were updated.
 2                                                          ROBINSAFBI32-7064 5 JUNE 2013


1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. 78 CEG/CEAN.
        1.1.1. The 78 CEG/CEAN shall establish and annually update the hunting season
        opening and closing dates, hunting and fishing rules, weapons and tackle restrictions, bag
        limits, catch limits, equipment restrictions, and other regulations that govern the harvest
        of fish and wildlife resources. 78 CEG/CEAN shall work with the Georgia Department
        of Natural Resources (DNR), United States Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), and 78 SFS
        to maintain a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) regarding the enforcement of
        fishing and hunting regulations on RAFB.
        1.1.2. 78 CEG/CEAN shall manage a nuisance animal control agreement with the US
        Department of Agriculture (USDA), Wildlife Services Division. 78 CEG/CEAN shall
        ensure that permits necessary for the control of nuisance wildlife, particularly birds, deer,
        and other wildlife which pose hazards to flight operations, are acquired from the
        appropriate regulatory agencies, and that the base remains in compliance with stipulations
        listed in those permits.    78 CEG/CEAN shall issue permits to volunteers for trapping
        feral hogs.
        1.1.3. The 78 CEG/CEAN natural resources manager shall inspect all trees designated
        for removal, and shall attempt to minimize the removal of healthy trees on RAFB when
        alternatives to removal exist. The 78 CEG/CEAN natural resources manager shall work
        with the Georgia Forestry Commission (GFC) and Robins’ Fire Department (78
        CEG/CEF) personnel in utilizing prescribed fire, when appropriate, to maintain natural
        ecosystems. A site-specific burn plan shall be developed for each burn conducted on
        RAFB. Firewood collection permits shall be issued by 78 CEG/CEAN, when
        appropriate.
        1.1.4. The 78 CEG/CEAN natural resources manager shall chair the base Tree City USA
        Team (INRM IPT) and the Pesticide Use Reduction Integrated Process Team (Pesticide
        Use IPT). The objectives of the INRM IPT include ensuring the professional
        management of the urban forest to promote its health and the safety of base personnel,
        and reducing maintenance costs, especially with respect to water and pesticide usage, and
        ensuring that the base qualifies for Tree City USA status. For more details, see paragraph
        5 below. The objectives of the Pesticide Use IPT include ensuring compliance with DoD
        pesticide use reduction goals, promoting the principles of Integrated Pest Management
        such as the utilization of pesticides as a last-resort control technique, and promoting
        public safety through environmental health. The Pesticide Use IPT shall include
        representatives from 78 CEAN, 78 CES/CEOSV, Pine Oaks Golf Course,                      78
        CES/CEOS, and the grounds maintenance contractor. This committee shall meet on an
        annual basis or more often as needed.
     1.2. 78 CES.
        1.2.1. The 78 CES is an Office of Collateral Responsibility (OCR) for INRM. It is the
        responsibility of the 78 CES, in consultation with the natural resources manager, 78
        CEG/CEAN, to plan and regulate planting, removal, maintenance, and protection of
        urban trees and shrubs; to eliminate and guard against dangerous conditions that may
        result in injury to persons or damage to property; to promote and enhance the natural
ROBINSAFBI32-7064 5 JUNE 2013                                                                      3


      beauty of the installation; and to protect trees, shrubs, facilities, and personnel against the
      spread of disease or pests. Prior to their implementation, tree planting plans and other
      landscaping plans shall be reviewed and endorsed by the grounds maintenance manager,
      78 CES/CEOS, and forwarded to the 78 CEG/CEAN natural resources manager for
      review and approval/disapproval. The 78 CES shall convert maintained landscapes to
      natural areas when possible. 78 CES, with guidance from                       78 CEG/CEAN,
      shall eliminate the use of invasive plant species in base landscaping.
   1.3. 78 FSS.
      1.3.1. The 78 FSS, Outdoor Recreation and Equipment Rental Office, is an OCR for
      INRM. This office shall sell permits for hunting and fishing, and shall verify that permits
      are issued or sold to authorized persons only. This office shall also provide information
      on fishing and hunting regulations (authored by 78 CEG/CEAN) to anglers and hunters,
      and shall sponsor a hunting areas orientation class. This office shall provide game
      harvest and license sales data to 78 CEG/CEAN on an annual basis. Additionally, this
      office shall ensure that hunters who wish to use all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) shall first
      have descriptive information about their ATVs recorded in the Outdoor Recreation and
      Equipment Office log.
   1.4. 78 SFS.
      1.4.1. The 78 SFS is an OCR for INRM. The 78 SFS may enforce rules concerning
      safety and environmental issues in base fishing areas including personal flotation device
      requirements, prohibitions on swimming, wading, and improper trash disposal, and
      prohibitions on the use of boats with gasoline or other internal combustion engines. The
      78 SFS may provide support to the natural resources manager, 78 CEG/CEAN, to enforce
      hunting and fishing rules.
      1.4.2. The 78 SFS may enforce rules governing the use of ATVs.
2. Hunting and Fishing.
   2.1. Eligibility. All military (active duty and retired) personnel and members of their
   immediate family may hunt and fish on RAFB. Department of Defense (DoD) employees
   assigned to RAFB may participate on a space-available basis. Guests of military and civilian
   personnel shall be accompanied by the sponsor at all times.
   2.2. Licenses and permits.
      2.2.1. Fishing. While fishing, persons 16 years of age or older shall have a valid State of
      Georgia fishing license and a RAFB fishing permit in their possession at all times and
      shall show to any enforcement official, including the base natural resources manager,
      upon request. An adult shall accompany any person less than 12 years of age who is
      fishing. In cases where a family is fishing, one member shall be able to produce the
      family permit if so requested. Permits may be purchased during regular duty hours at the
      Outdoor Recreation and Equipment Rental Office, 926-4001, Bldg 914.
      2.2.2. Hunting. While hunting, persons 16 years of age or older shall have a valid State
      of Georgia hunting license and a RAFB hunting permit in their possession at all times
      and shall show to any enforcement official, including the base natural resources manager,
      upon request. No one under 18 shall hunt unless under direct adult supervision. Permits
 4                                                          ROBINSAFBI32-7064 5 JUNE 2013


        may be purchased during regular duty hours at the Outdoor Recreation and Equipment
        Rental Office, 926-4001, Bldg 914.
            2.2.2.1. Hunting orientation class. All persons wishing to hunt on base are required
            to annually complete the hunter orientation class. Contact the Outdoor Recreation
            and Equipment Rental Office at 926-4001 for information regarding this class.
     2.3. Regulations. 78 CEG/CEAN shall establish and annually update the hunting season
     opening and closing dates, hunting rules, weapons and equipment restrictions, bag limits, and
     other regulations that govern the harvest of wildlife resources. The 78 CEG/CEAN shall also
     establish and update as needed base fishing rules, tackle restrictions, catch limits, equipment
     restrictions, and other regulations that govern the harvest of fish. Persons wishing to hunt or
     fish on base should refer to those rules when they are posted at the Outdoor Recreation and
     Equipment Rental Office.
     2.4. Noncompliance. Violations of Base, Federal, and State rules and regulations governing
     natural resources requirements are subject to enforcement under the U.S. Magistrate, U.S.
     District Court, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, Georgia civil and criminal
     requirements, civilian employee administrative processes, military administrative processes,
     and base privileges and debarment requirements. The privilege of fishing or hunting on
     RAFB may be suspended for a period of up to one year for the first offense. Additional
     violations may result in increased penalties.
3. Wildlife and Plant Hazards, and Their Control.
     3.1. Feeding and harassing wildlife.
        3.1.1. With the exception of feeders for birds, base personnel shall not feed wildlife. For
        example, ducks and geese at base lakes shall not be fed, as doing so attracts more of these
        birds, increasing a hazard to aircrews and aircraft.
        3.1.2. Garbage containers, such as dumpsters, shall be properly sealed at all times. Food
        wastes shall not be placed in containers that cannot be sealed, or left in bags beside
        containers.
        3.1.3. Do not try to approach, touch, or capture wild animals, including strange dogs and
        cats. Many species of wildlife are protected by state or federal law including nearly all
        bird species and their nests (i.e., when occupied by eggs or young), non-venomous
        snakes, land turtles, and game species such as deer, turkey, mourning dove, and wood
        duck.
     3.2. Wildlife damage control. DNR issues a Nuisance Animal Control Permit to RAFB
     authorizing the control of certain species of wild animals. FWS issues a Depredation Permit
     to RAFB authorizing the control of some species of birds on the base airfield in emergency
     situations. Both permits stipulate that control activities must be coordinated with and
     authorized by 78 CEG/CEAN. When lethal control must be used, it is critical that it be done
     in a manner that is both humane and sensitive to public opinion. Requirements for the
     control of three categories of wildlife typically encountered at Robins AFB are outlined
     below.
        3.2.1. Small animals: squirrels, raccoons, opossums, skunks, armadillos, beavers,
        snakes, bats, geese and other birds, dogs, and cats. Some of these species are potential
ROBINSAFBI32-7064 5 JUNE 2013                                                                 5


     carriers of rabies, and therefore shall only be handled by personnel who are trained to do
     so.
        3.2.1.1. For small-scale problems such as raccoons, contact the Entomology Section,
        78 CES/CEOSV, 468-2082. That office shall notify CEAN by phone or email
        concerning trapping requests and needs for controlling small animals.
        3.2.1.2. 78 CEG/CEAN arranges an annual contract with the USDA to assist the base
        with the capture of feral cats and dogs. These animals can carry rabies, may be
        dangerous to personnel, and can have serious negative impacts on wildlife.
        3.2.1.3. For larger-scale problems such as a flock of geese on the airfield, a colony of
        bats in a public building, flooding of roads caused by beaver dams, or power outages
        and structure damage caused by squirrels, contact 78 CEG/CEAN, 497-8104. CEAN
        shall direct/coordinate response actions by USDA, 78 CES/CEOSV, or DNR,
        whichever is appropriate.
     3.2.2. Large game animals: Deer, feral hog, coyote, fox, and bobcat. Some of these
     species can be rabies vectors, and all can be potentially dangerous under certain
     conditions. They shall only be handled by personnel who are trained to do so.
        3.2.2.1. Deer. Control is regulated by the state. DNR issues a permit to RAFB
        authorizing lethal control of deer only on the airfield, and only as a last resort. CEAN
        shall direct/coordinate response actions by USDA, 78 CES/CEOSV, or DNR,
        whichever is appropriate.
        3.2.2.2. Hog. This species is not protected by the state and is considered to be a
        serious pest. Lethal control measures can be employed when it is safe to do so,
        provided that approval from CEAN is acquired beforehand.
        3.2.2.3. Coyote. This species is not protected by the state. Lethal control measures
        can be employed when it is safe to do so, provided that approval from CEAN is
        acquired beforehand.
        3.2.2.4. Fox. Control is regulated by the state. Attempt to frighten the animal first.
        Lethal control will only be used as a last resort. CEAN shall direct/coordinate
        response actions by USDA, 78 CES/CEOSV, or DNR, whichever is appropriate.
        3.2.2.5. Bobcat. Control is regulated by the state. Attempt to frighten the animal
        first. Lethal control will only be used as a last resort. CEAN shall direct/coordinate
        response actions by USDA, 78 CES/CEOSV, or DNR, whichever is appropriate.
     3.2.3. Large carnivores: bear, alligator, and Florida panther. Killing or harassing one of
     these animals could result in legal action and/or a substantial fine levied against the
     shooter/harasser or against RAFB. In all cases, immediately notify 78 CEG/CEAN, 497-
     8104.
        3.2.3.1. Black bear. Control is regulated by the state. Often seen on RAFB, these
        animals are usually very timid unless they have young, are startled, or feel cornered.
        Stay clear and give them a chance to vacate the area. Make sure people in the
        immediate area are notified to stay indoors and restrain their dogs (dogs often harass
        bears, thereby creating serious situations). If necessary, pyrotechnics may be used to
 6                                                           ROBINSAFBI32-7064 5 JUNE 2013


            run the animal off, but this action must be authorized by CEAN. If the problem
            persists, CEAN shall contact the DNR.
            3.2.3.2. Alligator. Control is regulated by the state. Give the animal a chance to
            vacate the area. Do not crowd them and never approach them on foot. Keep pets
            away from them, and never feed alligators. Never allow dogs to swim in water
            bodies where alligators have been seen. If the problem persists, CEAN shall contact
            the DNR.
            3.2.3.3. Cougar/Florida panther. Control is regulated by federal and state agencies.
            These animals are usually very timid unless they have young, are startled, or feel
            cornered. Give them space, allowing them to vacate the area. Make sure people in
            the immediate area are notified to stay indoors and restrain their dogs (dogs often
            harass cougars, thereby creating serious situations where none previously existed). If
            necessary, use pyrotechnics to run the animal off, but this action must be authorized
            beforehand by CEAN. This animal is protected by the federal Endangered Species
            Act. If the problem persists, CEAN shall contact the DNR.
4. Off-road/All-terrain Vehicles.
     4.1. Off-road or all-terrain vehicles (hereafter referred to as ATVs) are defined as any
     motorized vehicle with three or four wheels, low pressure tires, a wheel base of 50 inches or
     less, an overall weight of 600 pounds or less, a handlebar for steering, and a seat designed to
     be straddled. This section of this instruction also establishes restrictions regarding the use of
     vehicles other than ATVs in forests and wetlands.
     4.2. Areas where ATVs may and may not be used.
        4.2.1. Hunting. ATVs may be used by hunters, and only during hunting seasons for deer
        and hog, on the natural gas pipeline road east of the Horse Creek Bridge. ATVs shall be
        transported to the hunting areas by trailer or truck.
        4.2.2. Archery. ATVs may also be used on established trails at the Archery Range for
        the purpose of transporting targets in support of tournaments and other special events.
     4.3. ATVs shall not be operated on nature trails or trails used for exercise. ATVs, or any
     other type of vehicle, are not authorized for use in forests and wetlands, with the following
     exceptions: 1) Those used for emergency purposes; 2) Any civil engineering vehicle
     performing authorized work; 3) Any combat or combat support vehicle when used for
     national defense purposes; 4) Landscape maintenance vehicles; 5) Vehicles used in support
     of the natural resources management program; and 6) Those used by DNR on the natural gas
     pipeline to access their property. Habitat damage attributed to ATV use in the wetland areas
     of hunting areas shall be the basis for barring ATVs from the gas pipeline road.
     4.4. All ATVs shall be licensed and insured according to Air Force and State regulations.
     All ATV operators shall possess a State driver’s license. Hunters who plan to operate ATVs
     on the natural gas pipeline road shall first have the make, color, and any other relevant
     information regarding their ATVs logged in the record book at the Outdoor Recreation and
     Equipment Rental Office; this shall be done annually. Minors operating ATVs shall carry a
     learner’s license and be under the supervision of an adult who has a State driver’s license.
ROBINSAFBI32-7064 5 JUNE 2013                                                                7


   4.5. Persons operating ATVs shall wear personal protective equipment (i.e., helmets, boots,
   gloves, and eye protection) and must acquire an ATV Safety Institute course completion card
   as described in AFI 91-207, USAF Traffic Safety Program, prior to using ATVs on RAFB.
   Passengers are not allowed on ATVs.
   4.6. All ATVs shall be equipped with a muffler and spark arrestor in good working order,
   and shall conform to State laws regarding vehicle pollution emissions and noise.
   4.7. Anyone driving recklessly, operating an ATV while under the influence of alcohol or
   drugs, or driving in areas where the use of ATVs is prohibited shall be subject to
   enforcement by the 78 SFS or other authorized enforcement officials.
5. Urban Forest Management, Firewood, Pecans, and Landscaping.
   5.1. Urban forest is defined as those areas lying within the developed parts of the base, to
   include the industrial area, training areas, the airfield, and base housing areas.
   5.2. Trees shall not normally be removed unless they are a hazard to personnel or property,
   inhibit a mission need such as construction, their removal will protect the health of other
   trees or other natural resources (e.g., diseased trees or invasive exotic species), or their
   removal is part of a plan to promote forest productivity or biodiversity.
   5.3. The Robins INRM IPT, shall be chaired by the base natural resources manager, and
   shall consist of members from 78 CEG/CEAN, 78 CES/CEOS, Pine Oaks Golf Course (78
   FSS), 78 SEG, and the base grounds maintenance contractor. The INRM IPT will meet on
   an as needed basis to review tree management and landscaping issues, and will make
   recommendations to the 78 CES and 78 CEG/CEAN regarding urban forest management.
   5.4. Invasive plant species shall not be planted on RAFB. All landscaping plans must be
   reviewed and approved/disapproved by 78 CES/CEOS and 78 CEG/CEAN.
   5.5. RAFB’s trees and associated products (i.e., firewood, fruit, and pine straw) are
   government property, and thus should not be given away without compensation to the
   government. 78 CEG/CEAN shall issue a permit to government personnel wishing to collect
   firewood. Pecans may be collected by government personnel without prior approval, but
   neither they nor firewood shall be sold for profit.




                                           MITCHEL H BUTIKOFER, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 8                                                     ROBINSAFBI32-7064 5 JUNE 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 Jul 1994
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 Sep 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 91-207, USAF Traffic Safety Program, 22 May 2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ATV—All-terrain vehicles
DNR—Department of Natural Resources
DOD—Department of Defense
FWS—Fish and Wildlife Service
GFC—Georgia Forestry Commission
INRM—Integrated Natural Resources Management
IPT—Integrated Process Team
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RAFB—Robins Air Force Base
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USDA—US Department of Agriculture
