BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
OF ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                      33-363

                                                                                  28 APRIL 2011

                                                                Communication and Information

                                                         BASE VITAL RECORDS RECOVERY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 78ABW/SCXXK                                                      Certified by: 78 ABW/SCX
                                                                                       Rita Davey
                                                                                        Pages: 11


This publication implements Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records. To provide
guidance for identifying, protecting, and storing vital records in the possession of individual
units/organizations, and the base records staging facility. This instruction outlines the steps
necessary for implementing emergency protection of vital records which will be acted upon
when the installation Commander declares an emergency is imminent. It applies to all
organizations at Robins Air Force Base. It will be the responsibility of the Chief of the Office to
see that this guidance is implemented and carried out with due caution and expediency.
Functional Area Records Manager(s) (FARMs) may be required to support the Base Records
Management (BRM) Office in the salvage/preservation of the FARM’s organizational records.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.
 2                                                          ROBINSAFBI33-363 28 APRIL 2011



                                              Chapter 1

                                             RECORDS

1.1. Vital Records
     1.1.1. Essential to the continuation, resumption or reconstruction of business in the event of
     a disaster or unexpected event.
     1.1.2. Important to preserving the rights of the agency, its staff and the public.
     1.1.3. Necessary to establishing legal and fiscal responsibility, status and positions.
1.2. Vital Records Inventory
     1.2.1. A typical work center will normally not have more than 7% of its records identified as
     vital.
     1.2.2. Vital records maintained in our work center are listed by their official Air Force title
     and Table and Rule (records identified on a file plan with a ―V‖ are vital). The list also
     indicates where the records are located. This list should be maintained by the organizational
     FARM in their FARM Continuity Book.
     1.2.3. Staged records will not be included in the vital records inventory. Standard Forms
     135, Records Transmittal and Receipt, constitute an inventory of the records stored in the
     Staging Area. Each office that has staged or retired records maintains a copy of the SF 135.
     Duplicate copies are also maintained by the Functional Area Records Manager (FARM) and
     the Records Management office. The Records Management office has full responsibility for
     the recovery and/or salvage of records held in the Staging Area.
     1.2.4. Each FARM will maintain the Vital Records Recovery Instruction in the mandatory
     FARM notebook which they are required to keep. In the event of a commander-directed
     evacuation the Vital Records Recovery Instruction must be removed along with any work
     center records.
ROBINSAFBI33-363 28 APRIL 2011                                                                3


                                          Chapter 2

                                       EVACUATION

2.1. Equipment:
   2.1.1. Unplug all equipment and appliances.
   2.1.2. Cover computers, printers, etc., with plastic covers. Shredder bags and trash bags are
   ideal for this purpose. Ensure computers and printers are cool before covering. If a central
   processing unit is on the floor, place it on top of a desk or table and cover it. Cover file
   cabinets and bookcases with plastic covers. Recommended list of recovery/disaster supplies
   can be found on page 6 of this instruction. Every unit with Vital Records identified on their
   file plan should develop a disaster recovery kit of supplies.
2.2. Records:
   2.2.1. Collect all vital records and remove them from the building. If possible, remove their
   corresponding guide cards to facilitate keeping records separated and for identification
   purposes. Standard staging boxes, NSN 8115-00-117-8249, are ideal for carrying bulk
   records. Place paper products in staging area boxes. A staging box will hold one cubic feet
   of records. Full letter-size file drawers contain approximately two cubic feet of records and
   legal size drawers contain approximately three cubic feet.
   2.2.2. Alert your FARM and the Records Management office.
   2.2.3. If the base staging warehouse is not damaged; FARMs will report to base staging
   warehouse with all records for salvage processing, with their disaster supplies. BRM Office
   and FARMs may be required to perform 24 hour duty during the salvage/preservation
   process.
2.3. Records Stored on ERM:
   2.3.1. All vital records stored on the ERM server will list a ―V‖ after the folder name to
   identify it as vital. The 78th Air Base Wing Communications Directorate (SC) will be
   responsible for all electronic vital records stored on the ERM server. The ERM server is
   backed up daily. In the event of an emergency situation, the 78 ABW SC/NCC will retain
   possession of backups and if necessary, implement offsite storage at the Federal Records
   Center. These tapes will be used in restoration of all vital ERM records.
2.4. Web-based Records: Web based records are already stored offsite and need not be
included in our plans as most of the web based paper or electronic records are informational
copies only. Almost all units use web based programs.
 4                                                         ROBINSAFBI33-363 28 APRIL 2011


                                             Chapter 3

                              RECOVERY AND RESTORATION

3.1. Building Re-entry: Re-enter the building only after fire and safety officials have given
authorization to do so.
3.2. Temperature and Humidity: Turn off heat. The air conditioning system, if still operable,
should remain on. It is imperative to bring the temperature and humidity down, as mold will
appear within 48 hours in unventilated areas made damp and humid by water. Mop floors or
pump out water. If possible, open outer doors to let in fresh air. Ventilate the area with large
electric fans. Cool, dry, and well circulated air will retard activation of mold and mildew spores.
3.3. Evaluation: Evaluate the degree of damage. Determine if records should be air dried,
frozen, or discarded. If not sure, contact BRM Office. Do not destroy any record that requires
retention of more than one year. Suggested vendors authorized for use for air drying, freezing,
etc can be found on page 7.
3.4. Assess and Document the Damage: Identify any records that are not intact. Use large
plastic bags or fiberboard boxes to retrieve miscellaneous papers. Designate a central location to
collect material accumulated under direction from BRM Office. Load most important records
and mark priority of records.
3.5. Organize: Gather staff and workers and establish a record keeping mechanism. Try to
keep the records organized and identifiable. Gather any needed supplies. Contact freezing
and/or drying vendors only after coordination with the Records Management office. Move all
affected materials out of the area and set up for air-drying. Pack and transport materials, carry
out air drying procedures, monitor work of outside vendors, clean and restore storage area.
Return treated records to their locations.
3.6. Preserve Provenance of Documentation: Ensure boxes are identified in some way to
show ―office ownership.‖ BRM Office recommends marking boxes same as if being staged in
warehouse, with exception of Accession Number and Location. If the contents need to be
transferred to another box or container ensure they are correctly identified. Be sure the order of
files remains intact, if possible.
3.7. Set Up Drying Area(s):
     3.7.1. Only slightly damp documents should be air-dried. The process is to expose as much
     paper surface as possible to circulating air in order to reduce environmental qualities favored
     by mold: high temperature, high humidity, and stagnant air. Select an area where heat and
     air conditioning are still operable, and where space permits ease of activity. Set up tables,
     floor fans, and dehumidifiers, if necessary. Cover work surfaces with plastic sheeting.
     Direct fans to blow into the area, but do not train them directly onto work surfaces. Physical
     distortion of the paper will occur. Glossy paper will, unless handled carefully, stick together
     when dry. Boxes of water damaged records should be transported, preferably, in a
     refrigerated truck to an off-site professional recovery operation facility.
     3.7.2. Blot bound volumes with unprinted newsprint or paper towels at intervals of two to
     ten pages, changing the interleaving as frequently as possible and as often as necessary until
     dry. Blotting paper should be removed regularly, and interleaving should be changed at the
ROBINSAFBI33-363 28 APRIL 2011                                                                  5


   same time until the volumes are dry. Bound volumes may be partially opened at this time to
   allow drying by fans. Wet volumes of coated pages should not be allowed to dry unless thin
   sheets of Mylar polyester are inserted between pages. When coated paper dries together, the
   clay coating that makes it shiny bonds with the clay coating of the next page, producing an
   irreversible bond stronger than the paper. It is then virtually impossible to separate the
   pages.
   3.7.3. Dehumidification is accomplished by pumping dry air into the building, and damp air
   out. This method is useful for slightly damp records. Records dry on site without having to
   be moved. It can be a very noisy process. Dried records will be physically distorted. This is
   an excellent method for drying all paper, books, photographs, film, negatives, X-rays,
   microfilm/fiche and mylar film, but it can take two to three weeks drying time.
   3.7.4. Jackets and cartridges containing X-rays, microfilm, microfiche, transparencies and
   slides need to be replaced to eliminate mold and/or mildew outbreaks. Keep film media
   submerged in water. Film must be hung in a dry environment.
   3.7.5. Audio and video tapes have corrosion potential and need to be processed ASAP.
   Transfer diskettes to plastic containers filled with clean cold water. Audio tapes, video tapes
   and computer disks need to be dried, cleaned and copied, do not put contaminated disks into
   systems as further damage will occur to equipment. Sterilize material exposed to
   contaminated water or air (mold spores) with thymol (a colorless crystalline phenol with an
   aromatic odor, obtained from thyme oil or made synthetically - used as a fungicide and
   preservative obtainable from the Records Management office, 6-3744, 3857, or 5164).
   Comply with AFOSHA and EPA standards.
3.8. Fan Records: The goal is to separate damp and moderately wet sheets of paper from each
other to allow circulating air to dry them. Remove files from boxes, and stand them up in milk
crates or other non-rusting supports. Fan the contents of folders so that pages are not in a solid
block. If fastened pages are significantly wet, it may be necessary to remove fasteners.
3.9. Re-fan: Check records at least daily and re-fan to expose damp areas of pages to dry air.
Continue to do this until records are dry to the touch, with no damp spots remaining.
3.10. Monitor Climate: The warmer and drier the air, the faster records will dry. Large floor
fans should circulate air, but not be trained on documents. Leave fans running 24 hours per day,
7 days per week. Relative humidity of 35-50% is best. Dehumidifiers may be necessary.
3.11. Do Not Try to Clean Records Until Dry: After the documents are dry, mud becomes
dirt, which can be brushed off with cheesecloth or soft-bristled brushes.
3.12. Rebox Records When Dry: Use new boxes. Be sure to transcribe any records ownership
information onto the boxes. Occasionally contents will not fit back into a box because they have
swelled and warped in the drying process.
3.13. Freezing/Drying Options: To stabilize water damaged materials, freeze at temperatures
below 20° Fahrenheit. Storage retains records in the condition in which found, and prevents
further deterioration while records await treatment. It also provides time to assess the damaged
material and to restore the building affected. Frozen records can be recovered by the following
methods. Any may be preferable to a particular situation. They are listed in order from least to
most expensive.
 6                                                          ROBINSAFBI33-363 28 APRIL 2011


     3.13.1. Freeze-Drying: This process pulls moisture out of frozen materials to a large-surface
     coil from which the water evaporates. (It is the process on which a frost-free freezer
     operates.) It runs by cycling temperature up to the thaw point, so distortion of paper is
     pronounced and coated papers will stick together. It is done off-site chamber, so security of
     records may be compromised. Works best on clay coated paper with less than six hours
     exposure to water. Drying time could take four to five weeks.
     3.13.2. Thermal Drying and Vacuum Thermal Drying: Operate on the clothes-dryer
     principal. Relatively inexpensive, this process pulls water out of records by heat. The main
     disadvantage is that the heating does paper no favors. In fact, it is the process used in
     ―artificial aging‖ experiments. It is useful for drying temporary records with a relatively
     short retention period. Should not be used for permanent records, unless they will be
     photocopied or microfilmed after recovery and the originals discarded.
     3.13.3. Vacuum Freeze-Drying: Operates by ―sublimation‖ in which crystalline ice is
     converted to steam just at 32° Fahrenheit without becoming water. Papers dried by this
     method are not cockled; water-soluble inks do not run; coated papers do not stick together. It
     is particularly useful for records affected by mold, as sterilization can be done after drying at
     little additional cost. The primary disadvantage is that it is expensive.
3.14. Provide Security: While records are in the drying process, damaged records must be
protected by security equal to that provided in the stacks.
3.15. Special Concerns:
     3.15.1. Fire-damaged records: Extreme caution must be used in handling paper damaged by
     fire. The records will be both brittle and wet. Pieces of paper toweling or unprinted
     newsprint should be placed under each charred page before moving the item. The towel or
     newsprint serves two purposes: to absorb moisture and to provide support. The corners of
     the towel or newsprint are then used to lift and move the document.
     3.15.2. Muddy records: Do not attempt more than minimal cleaning of wet records during
     the removal phase. Bound volumes may be gently dabbed with a sponge or soft cloth to
     remove mud or surface dirt, but do not rub or brush. Do not attempt to open water-damaged
     bound volumes. Loose textual records, if already soaked, may be rinsed, but do not wash in
     the sense of using friction on the page. Attempting to remove mud from wet paper forces dirt
     further into the paper’s fibers. Defer cleaning until documents are dry.
     3.15.3. Photographic media and microfilm: Stabilize wet black and white photographs,
     negatives, and microfilm by sealing in polyethylene bags and placing in plastic (not metal)
     garbage cans under cold, clean running water. Do not allow them to dry. They may be left
     in running water for up to three days before being transferred to a professional recovery unit,
     but the earlier recovery starts, the better. Color photographs must be transported to a
     professional photo-finishing laboratory within 48 hours after water immersion since the color
     layers will begin to separate. If this is not possible, freeze them. (There is some inherent risk
     with freezing color photographs since ice crystals may form and rupture the emulsion layer.)
     3.15.4. Preparing materials for freezing: Vacuum freeze-drying refers to vaporizing water
     below 32 degrees Fahrenheit. This procedure does not allow the ice to thaw prior to
     vaporizing. This method also causes less damage to the material. Place materials designated
     to be vacuumed or freeze-dried in interlocking plastic milk crate containers, which are
ROBINSAFBI33-363 28 APRIL 2011                                                                   7


   lightweight and provide air circulation and proper drainage. Loosely pack materials,
   unwrapped, in crates until crate is approximately three-fourths full. Wrap bound volumes
   with freezer or wax paper and place on their spines in crates. Do not pack volumes too
   tightly to allow for air circulation. Place oversized material on uncolored cardboard, and
   wrap in packages not more than two inches thick. Burned and charred materials require
   special care in handling, as the paper or bindings are very brittle. Support single sheets on
   uncolored cardboard and secure them with another sheet of cardboard or heavy paper.
3.16. Summary:
   3.16.1. Time is our greatest enemy.
   3.16.2. Freeze or refrigerate paper records if an immediate decision cannot be made.
   3.16.3. Stabilize the environment, high humidity is conducive to mold development.
   3.16.4. Prioritize and sort documents.
   3.16.5. Any document that has begun to cockle or wrinkle will not be returned to a pre-loss
   condition although it will be suitable for reading, handling or copying.
   3.16.6. If mold has developed on documents, it can be cleaned off and sanitized, but residual
   staining may remain.
3.17. Keep Chiefs of Office of Record (COR) Apprised: Inform and apprise CORs; ensure
they are fully aware of damage situation. Provide complete information about what happened,
how it happened, and steps taken in the recovery process.
3.18. Disposition of Salvaged Records: Return all files to the filing cabinets, disk containers,
etc. Retain any documentation concerning the destruction of vital records or records that could
not be salvaged.
3.19. Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS): Keep in mind that
the work center file plan and all required labels are recoverable from AFRIMS.
3.20. Chief of Office of Record and Records Custodian Reminders: Take appropriate action
to protect vital records (consider the feasibility of storing copies of electronic media at another
building, or copy and forward them to another activity with instructions to return them to your
unit when requested). Protect all classified, FOUO, and Privacy Act records. Store backups in a
fire-and/or humidity-resistant safe or storage cabinet. Utilize Attachment 2-Checklist for Vital
Records Recovery in the event of catastrophe.
   3.20.1. Verbiage may be changed to be utilized to more specific organizations, if necessary.
   Contact your designated organizational BRM first.
   3.20.2. Disaster drills utilizing Vital Records will be planned at least semi-annually to
   include a response from all records professionals assigned at Robins Air Force Base.
 8                                                   ROBINSAFBI33-363 28 APRIL 2011


                                         Chapter 4

                                       SUPPLIES

4.1. Disaster Supplies to Keep On Hand
Paper Towels
Shredder Bags or Trash Bags
Black Felt Tip Markers
Pencils
Packing Knife
Freezer/Silicone paper

Writing Tablets
Copy of Vital Records Recovery Guide
Pressure Sensitive Tape, Water Resistant, NSN 7510-00-6656
Large Sponge
Scissors
Terrycloth Towels
Plastic Pail
Pallets
Boxes, NSN 8115-00-117-8249
Disposable Gloves
Labels
Brooms
Flashlights & Batteries
Nametags for Disaster Team
ROBINSAFBI33-363 28 APRIL 2011                                                                      9


                                           Chapter 5

                                           VENDORS

5.1. List of Vendors for Vital Records Recovery: BMS CAT, 303 Arthur Street, Forth Worth
TX 76107, http://www.gmscat.com, 1 (800) 433-2940 for 24-hour service, office: (817) 332-
2770, FAX: 817-332-6728
Obtain blotting paper, plastic bags, bakery bread trays (drying surface for papers) and any other
available supplies the Commissary, BX, Wal-Mart, etc.
VWR Scientific, PO Box 29027 Phoenix AZ 85038, 1 (800) 932-5000
American Freezer Services Inc, 455 South 75th Avenue Suite 103, Phoenix AZ 85029, 943-5100
Micrographies, Comgraphix Inc, 11226 N 23rd Avenue, Suite103, Phoenix AZ 85029, 943-5100
5.2. VACUUM/FREEZE DRYING: Document Reprocesses, Eric Lundquist, Pres. 41 Sutter
Street, Suite 1120, San Francisco CA 94104 – 1800-4-DRYING
Dehumidification: Airdex Corp, Don R. Hartsell Resources Plaza 2700 Post Oak Blvd Suite
1520, PO Box 460088 Houston TX 77056, (713) 963-8600
 10                                                 ROBINSAFBI33-363 28 APRIL 2011


                                       Chapter 6

                                        FORMS

6.1. Prescribed and Adopted Forms
   6.1.1. Prescribed Forms:
   No forms prescribed
   6.1.2. Adopted Forms
   AF Form 847, Air Force Publication/Form Action Request




                                        CARL A. BUHLER Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander
ROBINSAFBI33-363 28 APRIL 2011                              11


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
FARM—Functional Area Record Manager
BRM—Base Record Manager
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
COR—Chief Office of Record
