BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE 24-3
OF ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                            26 JANUARY 2011

                                                                                 Transportation

                                                               VEHICLE ACCIDENT/ABUSE
                                                                 PROGRAM PROCEDURES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at ww.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releaseability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 78 LRS/LGRV                                                       Certified by: 78 MSG/CC
Supersedes: ROBINSAFBI 24-3, 4                                           (Col Lee-Ann Perkins)
            September 2009                                                               Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground
Transportation Vehicle, AFI 23-302 Material and Vehicle Management and HQ AFMC
Supplement 1. This instruction outlines responsibilities, definitions, and procedures for an
effective vehicle accident, abuse, misuse, and incident program with the visibility and emphasis
placed at the unit level and under control of the unit commander. This instruction applies to all
personnel assigned, attached, or associate units to the 78th Air Base Wing, Robins Air Force
Base, Georgia. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Moderate changes throughout this document have been made and must be completely reviewed.
1. General Information
   1.1. Objective. Reduce number of vehicle accidents and abuses, protect Air Force people
   from injury or death and eliminate unnecessary expenditure of limited monetary resources.
 2                                                       ROBINSAFBI24-3 26 JANUARY 2011


     The ultimate goal of this program is to eliminate vehicle accidents and abuses at Robins Air
     Force Base.
     1.2. General. The base vehicle management flight is funded to provide preventive periodic
     maintenance and repairs caused by normal wear and tear, but not for accident and abuse
     repairs. Money to repair accident and abuse damage must be transferred from unit’s
     Operational and Maintenance (O&M) accounts to 78th Logistics Readiness Squadron (78
     LRS).
2. Vehicle or Equipment Abuse. Vehicle or equipment abuse is defined as an act or omission
that has caused, or may cause, damage, which cannot be attributed to normal wear and tear or
accident. Vehicle or equipment abuse may result in early failure of components or result in
immediately detectable damage. The following are examples of vehicle or equipment abuse:
     2.1. Failure to accomplish organizational or operator maintenance in accordance with the
     manufacturer’s commercial publication or Air Force instructions, manuals, or technical
     orders.
     2.2. Knowingly operating a vehicle or piece of equipment with a malfunction that may cause
     or result in further damage.
     2.3. Overloading the vehicle or piece of equipment, or failure to tie down or secure cargo.
     2.4. Operating a vehicle or piece of equipment with broken tire chains, over inflated tires, or
     under inflated tires.
     2.5. Operating a vehicle or piece of equipment with known safety discrepancies,
     malfunctions, or damage.
     2.6. Failure to bring a vehicle or piece of equipment to Vehicle Management (78
     LRS/LGRV) or authorized leased serviced provider (as applicable) for scheduled
     maintenance.
     2.7. Failure to protect the vehicle or piece of equipment’s exterior painted surfaces from
     oxidation or corrosion (Washing/Waxing).
     2.8. Failure to bring a vehicle or piece of equipment to Vehicle Management or notify
     authorized leased serviced provider (as applicable) within 24 hours after a safety related
     discrepancy or 72 hours after a non-safety discrepancy is discovered.
     2.9. Modifying, adding equipment, or applying markings to a vehicle or piece of equipment
     without written approval from the 78 LRS Vehicle Fleet Manager (VFM) and if required,
     Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command Staff and from the WR-ALC prime item
     manager.
     2.10. Tampering with engine governors, pollution control devices, or computer control
     systems.
     2.11. Running engines at excessive speeds.
     2.12. Operating vehicles with low oil or coolant levels due to failure to check levels,
     according to established guidance, failure to monitor dash instrumentation, or significantly
     overfilling the engine crankcase, transmission or hydraulic reservoirs, as applicable.
ROBINSAFBI24-3 26 JANUARY 2011                                                                 3


   2.13. Operating vehicles improperly such as lugging in high gear and shifting into reverse
   when traveling forward.
   2.14. Failures that are not the result of normal wear and tear, or defective material or
   workmanship.
   2.15. Operating with applied or dragging parking brake.
   2.16. Intentional destruction or disfigurement.
   2.17. Servicing fuel tank, hydraulic reservoirs, or other items with the incorrect fluid.
Note: The vehicle abuse examples listed above are not all inclusive. When suspected abuse
cannot be determined, the owning organization will be responsible for reimbursement.
3. Vehicle Accident. A vehicle accident is defined as a collision that occurs unexpectedly and
unintentionally.
4. Responsibilities. Vehicle Management is responsible for processing accidents and
identifying suspected vehicle abuse. The VFM will evaluate each case and initiate each alleged
vehicle abuse case. The Vehicle Management and Analysis (VM&A) element will document,
track, and provide costs for vehicle abuse and accident cases.
   4.1. Vehicle Control Officer (VCO) or Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officers
   (VCNCO) are responsible to ensure accidents and suspected abuses are reported to Vehicle
   Management and authorized leased serviced provider (when applicable). They must also
   ensure the SF 91 and if applicable DD form 518 are completed for all accidents.
Note: A complete list of VCO/VCNCO responsibilities is outlined in the VCO/VCNCO guide
book.
5. Procedures. Upon identification, a vehicle abuse or accident case will be opened using the
following steps:
   5.1. Vehicle Management will initiate a work order for registered vehicles/equipment,
   estimating the cost of repairs. A letter identifying the type of damages and estimated repair
   cost will be routed to the commander and VCO or VCNCO of the organization, requesting an
   investigation and release notification. A courtesy copy of this letter will be sent to Base
   Legal, Finance and Safety Office.
Note: Vehicle Management does not process work orders for GSA or leased vehicles.
   5.2. Vehicle Management will begin repairing the vehicle or piece of equipment after a
   release for repair letter is received. The letter must be signed by the owning unit VCO or
   VCNCO of the organization, stating that the vehicle or piece of equipment is no longer
   needed for the investigation. This letter is required to be forwarded to the Vehicle
   Management Flight within 5 working days. If no release letter is received, repairs will
   commence 5 working days after commander and VCO or VCNCO notification.
Note: If a government owned vehicle (GMV) was involved in a fatality or an accident with
property damage where USAF could be held liable to other party in accident, only the Base
Legal Office can release the vehicle or piece of equipment for repairs. 78 LRS/LGRV will
coordinate with WR-ALC/JAC regarding release for repairs in accident cases covered in
paragraph 5.7 below.
4                                                       ROBINSAFBI24-3 26 JANUARY 2011


    5.3. All accidents involving GSA vehicles, regardless of damage, will be reported to the
    GSA Accident Control Center and Vehicle Maintenance. A copy of the SF 91 and an
    estimate of repairs shall be turn into LGRV, Fleet Management within 72 hours of the
    incident. Money reimbursed for abuse/accident repair of GSA vehicles will be returned to
    the GSA lease account from the owning organization or party found liable for the damage.
    5.4. If the estimate for repair cost exceeds the vehicle’s “one-time repair limit,” the vehicle
    is considered uneconomically repairable. A Limited Technical Inspection will be
    accomplished by Vehicle Management for registered vehicles requesting deposition
    instructions. All other disposition instructions will be determined by authorized leased
    serviced provider (as applicable).
    5.5. The owning unit VCO or VCNCO or commander is responsible for ensuring an
    investigation is conducted for alleged vehicle or equipment abuse or an accident. A written
    reply to the VFM is required within 10 duty days after the date of the notification letter. The
    group commander or equivalent will be notified if a response or request for extension is not
    received in 10 duty days. A U-Drive-It (UDI) or recalled vehicle will not be provided to
    organizations with vehicles involved in accidents or identified as abuse, unless it will impede
    sortie generation or sustainment.
    5.6. The unit commander, unit VCO or VCNCO, or the investigating official may request an
    AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement, from VM&A. When payment
    for requested damage is involved, either voluntarily or through the use of a Department of
    Defense (DD) Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss, the actual cost
    of repairs is computed using an AF Form 20. This is done in accordance with AFMAN 23-
    220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property. If a financial analysis is required, VM&A
    will provide an AF Form 20 to WR-ALC/FMH and the unit involved. For associate tenant
    units, reimbursements for abuse repairs will be in accordance with respective support
    agreements.
    5.7. GMV accidents indicating the liability for the accident is upon a commercial company
    or private party, either with self-insurance or commercial car insurance company coverage,
    will have repair estimates accomplished by the company's or insurance company's adjuster or
    by a business recommended by the commercial company or insurance company. Pictorial
    evidence of the damage will be obtained for the responsible party and for use by WR-
    ALC/JAC in case the accident requires litigation.
       5.7.1. Where there is no dispute as to liability, a civilian business repair firm will make
       repairs at the expense of the liable company or insurance company insuring the party
       responsible for the accident.
           5.7.1.1. The commercial company or insurance company will pay the cost of repairs
           associated with the accident directly to the civilian business repair firm.
           5.7.1.2. 78 LRS/LGRV will notify WR-ALC/JAC when payment is received for
           release of GMV (or asset) to repair firm. An authorized representative of 78
           LRS/LGRV will inspect and accept all repairs.
       5.7.2. In cases of disputed liability or when mission requires most rapid repair of GMV,
       the GMV will be repaired as expeditiously as needed at government expense.
ROBINSAFBI24-3 26 JANUARY 2011                                                              5


         5.7.2.1. WR-ALC/JAC will retain responsibility for processing the government
         claim. After pictorial evidence is preserved for evidence, WR-ALC/JAC will release
         the GMV for repair at government expense.
         5.7.2.2. WR-ALC/JAC will prepare memoranda of witness interviews (USAF driver
         and passenger where applicable) who observed accident.
         5.7.2.3. 78 LRS/LGRV will provide WR-ALC/JAC a record of the government's
         expense to do the repairs.
     5.7.3. In all cases where damage to a GMV appears to be the responsibility of a party or
     parties other than the USAF or another federal agency, WR-ALC/JAC will assert a
     government claim against the party responsible for the damage.
  5.8. All accidents involving GSA vehicles, regardless of damage, will be reported to the
  GSA Accident Control Center. Money reimbursed for abuse/accident repair of GSA vehicles
  will be returned to the GSA lease account from the owning organization or party found liable
  for the damage.
  5.9. The cost for accidents and abuses for government motor vehicles (GMVs) will also be
  reimbursable by responsible unit. Financial liability may also be imposed on drivers of
  GMVs and GSA vehicles where “gross negligence, willful misconduct, or deliberate
  unauthorized use” is determined. The VCO is responsible to ensure the vehicle accident
  documentation is completed within the allotted time and a copy of the paperwork is
  forwarded to 78 LRS/LGRV. The responsible VCO must also ensure vehicle is turned into
  the Vehicle Management (building 308) for repairs.
  5.10. Vehicle Management will notify owning/responsible organizational commander of the
  actual accident/abuse cost once all repairs are completed.
  5.11. Organizations using a U-Drive-It vehicle will be held accountable for repair costs and
  will transfer required funds to 78 LRS. The owning unit commander will transfer funds for
  the repair costs for all accident and abuse cases to 78 LRS. Reimbursement must be
  completed no later than 30 days following completion of repairs.
  5.12. Dependent upon the owning organization’s funding type; there are two methods
  available for organizations to reimburse 78 LRS for vehicle abuse and accidents. The
  organization may either 1) reprogram funding authority to 78 LRS or 2) provide funding with
  an AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document (MORD) or DD
  Form 448, Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request (MIPR).
 6                                                     ROBINSAFBI24-3 26 JANUARY 2011




6. Adopted Forms.

     AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement
     AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
     DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss




                                             CARL A. BUHLER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Installation Commander
ROBINSAFBI24-3 26 JANUARY 2011                                              7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Reference
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 Oct 2007
AFMAN 23-220, Report of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 Jul 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFPD 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground Transportation Vehicle, 6 Sep 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
GSA—General Services Administration
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
VFM—Vehicle Fleet Manager
VM&A—Vehicle Management and Analysis
