BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                         INSTRUCTION 63-125
                                                                                   3 NOVEMBER 2006

                                                                                             Acquisition

                                                            NUCLEAR CERTIFICATION PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: WR-ALC/ENES                                          Certified by: WR-ALC/ENE (Mr. Eric Jones)
                                                                                          Pages: 9

This instruction implements AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, and supports AFI 63-1201,
Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E) by providing policy and proce-
dures to maintain Nuclear Certification throughout the life cycle. This instruction addresses Group-level
organizations without a co-located Nuclear Certification Manager. This instruction applies to any
group-level organization at WR-ALC which manages nuclear certified equipment, vehicles, software or
other end items, and has a co-located Nuclear Certification Manager. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will
convert to AFMAN 33-363) Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Management Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.


1. Purpose. Air Force Policy Directive 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and System Surety, defines nuclear surety
as “All functions and activities accomplished to ensure Air Force nuclear systems are designed, devel-
oped, operated, maintained, transported, and controlled to provide maximum safety to the public and
operating personnel while protecting the environment and maintaining reliability to support mission
accomplishment.” This instruction is written to ensure that the design and sustainment of all Center man-
aged equipment, vehicles, software, end items and procedures governing their use with nuclear weapons
are evaluated and certified in accordance with the Air Force Nuclear Certification Program before being
released by the program office to the field for use with nuclear weapons.

2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. Wing Senior Management. Wing Senior Management will receive Nuclear Certification Process
   training in accordance with AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program, and AFMCI 90-204, Nuclear
   Weapons Management.
   2.2. Group Single Manager.
2                                                         ROBINSAFBI63-125 3 NOVEMBER 2006


       2.2.1. AFI 63-125 identifies the Single Manager of nuclear capable/certified weapons systems
       and nuclear mission support products as having the primary responsibility for nuclear certifica-
       tion. Responsibility for individual systems within the Program Office flow down through the sus-
       tainment and mission support squadrons to Program Managers and IPT leads, who assign day to
       day tasks necessary to execute the program in coordination with the Nuclear Certification Man-
       ager (NCM). The NCM serves as the Single Manager’s primary representative within the program
       office for day to day management and execution of the Nuclear Certification Program.
       2.2.2. Group Single Managers shall appoint a Nuclear Certification Manager (NCM) by designa-
       tion letter The designation letter shall be forwarded to the 498 Nuclear Systems Group, Certifica-
       tion Division (498 NSG/Certification Division) at Kirtland AFB, NM with a copy to WRALC/
       EN. The NCM shall be nominated by the Group Chief Engineer and coordinated through the Sus-
       tainment/Mission Support Squadron CC/Directors.
       2.2.3. Group Single Managers (i.e., System Program Managers, Development System Managers,
       System Support Managers, Product Group Managers, and other designated senior level program
       office personnel) assigned to program offices with nuclear certified systems, software, or equip-
       ment or who develop or modify systems, equipment or software expected to require nuclear certi-
       fication) will attend the Nuclear Certification Process Executive Course in accordance with AFI
       63-125 and AFMCI 90-204.
       2.2.4. Group Single Managers shall ensure that the NCM and other program office personnel who
       support the acquisition, development, or modification of nuclear certified systems, software, or
       equipment receive Nuclear Certification process training required by AFI 63-125 and AFMCI
       90-204.
       2.2.5. Group Single Managers shall coordinate release of nuclear certified items to the Lead/
       Using Command IAW AFI 63-125.
    2.3. Nuclear Certification Manager (NCM).
       2.3.1. Comply with the Roles and Responsibilities assigned to the NCM under AFI 63-125.
       Execution of these responsibilities will require collaboration and coordination with the Integrated
       Product Team (IPT) responsible for the acquisition or sustainment of the end item.
       2.3.2. Serve as the primary Group POC for nuclear surety matters, and manage all nuclear certifi-
       cation issues with 498 NSG/Certification Division.
       2.3.3. Provide continuity and share lessons learned to promote consistency in the implementation
       of this instruction within the Group.
       2.3.4. Review nuclear safety and surety related communications to include
          2.3.4.1. Recommendations for Nuclear Certification Impact Statements (NCIS) for acquisi-
          tions of nuclear certified equipment, software and vehicles managed by the Group.
          2.3.4.2. Modification programs for impact to nuclear certification including Nuclear Certifi-
          cation Impact Statements (NCIS). This will require coordination with the Group configuration
          control Executive Secretariat.
          2.3.4.3. Review all Dull Sword Responses or Initiations
       2.3.5. Develop and maintain a database of all nuclear certification/safety projects.
ROBINSAFBI63-125 3 NOVEMBER 2006                                                                     3


     2.3.6. Subscribe to and maintain cognizance of the online Weapons Journal (AFRP 91-3).
     2.3.7. Maintain access to the Master Nuclear Certification List (MNCL) and provide updates and
     corrections to the MNCL manager as appropriate
     2.3.8. Maintain currency with the AFI and AFMCI series listed above
     2.3.9. Coordinate required nuclear certification process training for group management and func-
     tional personnel in accordance with AFI 63-125 and AFMCI 90-204. Personnel requiring training
     shall be identified annually to 498 NSG IAW AFMCI 90-204.
  2.4. Chief Engineer (CE): As the Single Manager’s technical representative for Systems Engineering
  processes, the CE shall ensure that disciplined engineering processes, as outlined in AFI 63-1201,
  Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness, are employed in execution of Nuclear
  Certification Programs for assigned equipment and system programs. Chief Engineers shall serve as
  the technical line of authority for resolving technical issues requiring Single Manager decisions.
     2.4.1. Nominate individual for appointment as the NCM and coordinate through the Sustainment
     and Mission Support Squadrons.
     2.4.2. Maintain visibility into the Group’s Nuclear Certification Programs via attendance at pro-
     gram reviews, CCB activities and Nuclear Project Officer’s meetings, and coordination on com-
     munications and decisions related to the nuclear certification process elevated to the Single
     Manager.
  2.5. Sustainment/Mission Support Squadron CC/Directors shall ensure that all personnel assigned to
  programs and/or equipment with Nuclear Certification Requirements are trained and comply with the
  Group’s nuclear certification program managed by the NCM. Specific actions required of functional
  elements are as follows:
     2.5.1. Program/Logistics Managers: As the Single Manager’s direct representative for assigned
     programs and equipment, ensure overall integrity of nuclear certification of assigned programs
     and equipment, using functional resources assigned to them or designated by the Mission Support
     Squadron.
         2.5.1.1. Coordinate and task functional resources (personnel, fiscal, etc) to accomplish spe-
         cific actions needed to comply with Nuclear Certification programs within the group, as devel-
         oped by the NCM per AFI 63.125 paragraph 2.5.4
         2.5.1.2. Maintain awareness of future and ongoing acquisitions of nuclear certified compo-
         nents and end items.
         2.5.1.3. Ensure nuclear certification requirements are considered for all new acquisitions or
         modifications of assigned systems and equipment.
  2.6. Engineers:
     2.6.1. Know which of their assigned equipment, vehicles, or software are, or should be, nuclear
     certified (reference AFI 63-125 and AFI 91-103, Air Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification
     Program) and listed in the MNCL. Maintain access to the Master Nuclear Certification List
     (MNCL)
     2.6.2. Ensure applicable nuclear safety design certification requirements, identified in AFI
     91-107, Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting, and Maintenance Criteria for Nuclear Weapon
4                                                          ROBINSAFBI63-125 3 NOVEMBER 2006


       Systems, AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapons Systems,
       AFMAN 91-119, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems Software,
       are integrated into all programs (e.g., modification actions, new or replacement equipment buy
       programs, and Technical Order management).
       2.6.3. Coordinate all nuclear certification correspondence with the NCM.
       2.6.4. Maintain configuration control on assigned nuclear certified vehicles, equipment, and soft-
       ware.
       2.6.5. Ensure all nuclear certified items are properly identified or marked to enable positive iden-
       tification in the MNCL.
       2.6.6. Recommend corrective actions to the NCM and Squadron CC/Directors for identified con-
       cerns and issues affecting the Nuclear Certification of assigned Group systems and equipment.
       2.6.7. Perform/provide engineering evaluations (i.e., Nuclear Surety Evaluation (NSE)) in sup-
       port of nuclear certification in accordance with (IAW) AFI 63-125 on the following.”
NOTE: Specific certification requirements/tasks will be identified by the 498 NSG/Certification Divi-
sion in the Basic Certification Requirements Plan (CRP). The Basic CRP documents the Design and
Operational Certification requirements identified by the nuclear certification process owners that need to
be met by the developer/program office. The Program Office is responsible for identifying in the final
CRP how the requirements will be met.
           2.6.7.1. New acquisitions of replacement items, software, and equipment managed by the
           Group which require nuclear certification.
           2.6.7.2. Proposed modifications/changes to certified software, hardware, equipment/weapon
           systems, and nuclear certified procedures managed by the Group. If the mission of a nuclear
           certified item changes, a nuclear certification impact statement must be prepared and submit-
           ted to the 498 NSG/Certification Division IAW provisions contained herein and in AFI
           63-125.
           2.6.7.3. Acquired equipment identified by using major commands (MAJCOMs) or upon a
           request from 498 NSG/Certification Division to evaluate a vehicle or equipment NSN for
           nuclear certification.
       2.6.8. Using the Basic Certification Requirements Plan and appendices as a guide, develops the
       draft CRP detailing how the certification requirements identified in the Basic CRP will be met.
       The draft CRP will be forwarded to the 498 NSG/Certification Division through the Group NCM
       and/or Single Manager for coordination and approval from the requisite process owners.
       2.6.9. Provide technical representation at nuclear weapons handling, loading, and delivery proce-
       dures meetings, Nuclear Project Officer Meetings (NPOM), Nuclear Weapon System Safety
       Group (NWSSG), and other conferences involving their respective weapon systems. This repre-
       sentation shall be coordinated with AFSC/SEW and the 498 NSG as necessary.
       2.6.10. Identify suitable replacement components for nuclear certified equipment which meet or
       exceed original design requirements or specifications identified in AFI 91-107 and/or AFMAN
       91-118. Nuclear certified software updates or replacements are handled in accordance with
       AFMAN 91-119.
ROBINSAFBI63-125 3 NOVEMBER 2006                                                                      5


     2.6.11. Develop responses to deficiency reports (e.g. Dull Sword, MDR, and QDR) on assigned
     equipment, vehicles, or items. A nuclear-certified item or vehicle that becomes damaged or unser-
     viceable generally generates a DULL SWORD message. AFMAN 91-221 and AFI 91-204 are the
     governing documents for the Dull Sword.
     2.6.12. Recommend nuclear certified vehicles, equipment or software be decertified when the
     designs or fleet wide workmanship are determined to be deficient as a result of a Materiel Defi-
     ciency Report (MDR), service bulletin, inspection, Engineering Change Proposal (ECP), or any
     other condition jeopardizing nuclear safety. Recommend nuclear certified items be restricted from
     nuclear use with nuclear weapons when an individual item is determined to be deficient as a result
     of an Materiel Deficiency Report (MDR), service bulletin, inspection, ECP, or any other condition
     jeopardizing nuclear safety. Recommend decertified or restricted nuclear certified items be
     re-certified or the restriction removed when their deficiencies are corrected. This is done by cor-
     respondence with the 498 NSG/Certification Division.
     2.6.13. Be familiar with the 498 NSG, which manages the nuclear certification process and pro-
     vides technical services to AFSC/SEW. (https://wwwmil.nwd.kirtland.af.mil/)
     2.6.14. Be familiar with the nuclear weapon system safety rules applicable to assigned item’s
     weapon system.
     2.6.15. Ensure Technical Order procedures involving nuclear weapon systems or certified equip-
     ment fulfill the certification criteria identified in AFI 63-125.
     2.6.16. Maintain historical files of all engineering evaluation synopses, evaluation summaries,
     and accompanying engineering data until superseded or until notified that the equipment will no
     longer be nuclear certified. Provide copies as requested to NCM for inclusion in the Group
     Nuclear Surety Database.
     2.6.17. Send recommended changes to nuclear safety series directives to HQAFSC at Kirtland
     AFB.
  2.7. Equipment Specialists (ES) shall:
     2.7.1. Coordinate all nuclear certification related correspondence with the NCM.
     2.7.2. Track progress of the qualification of Group prime end items which must be nuclear certi-
     fied until certification is complete and the item is listed in the MNCL.
     2.7.3. At least semi-annually, review the MNCL for accuracy of assigned equipment
     2.7.4. Report all Dull Swords and MDRs to the end item engineer for determination of decertifi-
     cation or corrective action.
     2.7.5. Assist engineer in identifying new equipment and substitute or replacement components for
     nuclear certified equipment.
     2.7.6. Coordinate and implement/incorporate required changes as appropriate such as equipment
     modification, Time Compliance Technical Order, or formal Technical Order changes when noti-
     fied of formal nuclear certification by the 498 NSG/Certification Division.
     2.7.7. Coordinate changes to repair procedures or illustrated parts breakdown with the assigned
     engineer to ensure changes are evaluated for any impact on nuclear safety.
  2.8. ES and Engineer shall:
6                                                           ROBINSAFBI63-125 3 NOVEMBER 2006


       2.8.1. Maintain ongoing communications pertaining to all assigned workload and the nuclear
       safety workload in particular. Maintain awareness of future and ongoing acquisitions of nuclear
       certified components and end items.
       2.8.2. Include an assessment of nuclear certification impact when reviewing Technical Order pro-
       cedures involving nuclear weapon systems or certified equipment and changes thereto. Signature
       of the ES on the AFMC Form 252, Technical Order Publication Change Request constitutes
       necessary documentation. Assessment by engineering, which is required on nuclear certified
       items, is documented by the appropriate engineer's coordination initials on the AFMC Form 252.
       2.8.3. Identify needed changes to the MNCL to the 498 NSG Certification Division MNCL Man-
       ager. Communications may be initiated using the MNCL problem reporting process or by direct
       communication...
       2.8.4. Ensure all modifications and/or changes to certified items include an assessment of the
       impact on nuclear safety and nuclear certification.
       2.8.5. Review available data from the field such as Dull Swords, MDRs, or other documentation
       to determine if any patterns or trends can be found. This information may be used for mishap pre-
       vention and as a proactive means to minimize equipment downtime.
       2.8.6. Coordinate on the resolution of DULL SWORDs.
       2.8.7. Identify new acquisitions as nuclear certified during the initial stages of the process. Acqui-
       sition initiation documentation shall be routed to either or both the engineer and the equipment
       specialist. This documentation shall serve notice that a component or end item acquisition is
       beginning and actions to address any nuclear certification must begin. Consult the MNCL and
       annotate acquisition initiation documentation with appropriate marking signifying a nuclear certi-
       fied component or end item.

3. Procedures:
    3.1. Requests for nuclear certification of a new replacement item (equipment, hardware, software or
    vehicle) shall normally be initiated by the engineer responsible for that item/system. The following
    procedures apply:
       3.1.1. Upon receipt of a CDMS Form 761, Acquisition Data Worksheet, AFMC Form 807 Rec-
       ommended Quality Assurance Provisions and Special Inspection Requirements, or a PR/
       MIPR coordination sheet, the engineer or equipment specialist shall check the MNCL to deter-
       mine if the end item is nuclear certified. Annotate acquisition initiation documentation with appro-
       priate marking signifying a nuclear certified component or end item.
           3.1.1.1. On Acquisition Data Worksheet, Part II, Engineer’s Checklist of Attachments,
           ensure that Nuclear Certified Equipment is checked.
           3.1.1.2. On AFMC Form 807, write “Component of Nuclear Certified End Item” in block 9.
           3.1.1.3. On the PR/MIPR coordination cover sheet, write “Nuclear Certified End Item” or
           “Component of Nuclear Certified End Item” in a prominent location.
           3.1.1.4. During review of CDMS-761 document ensure that nuclear certified items are docu-
           mented.
ROBINSAFBI63-125 3 NOVEMBER 2006                                                                           7


   3.2. New acquisitions of equipment, vehicles, hardware, and software requiring nuclear certification
   must be accomplished IAW AFI 63-125 guidance. It should be noted that this criteria includes some
   time compliance requirements. Additionally, MAJCOM personnel should be contacted to clarify
   design requirements and should be invited to be a part of the design effort. This will ensure a certifi-
   able product in a minimum amount of time.
   3.3. Prepare the procurement specifications to include nuclear safety design requirements in accor-
   dance with AFMAN 91-118 for equipment and AFMAN 91-119 for software.
   3.4. Prepare the Nuclear Certification Impact Statement (NCIS) and submit it to the 498 NSG/Certi-
   fication Division for review. That organization will coordinate the NCIS with the requisite process
   owners and in turn produce a Basic Certification Requirements Plan (CRP) which defines the require-
   ments which must be met for system certification. The 498 NSG/Certification Division will be the
   focal point for all activities leading to nuclear certification. Any information required will be sent to
   the 498 NSG/Certification Division (unless directed otherwise) for distribution to the appropriate
   agency. Details about the nuclear certification process are found in AFI 63-125. Prepare engineering
   evaluation summaries and certification recommendations in sufficient detail to support nuclear The N
   certification impact conclusions.
NOTE: CIS should be submitted as early as possible in the development process in order to allow suffi-
cient time for the 498 NSG/Certification Division and other nuclear certification process owners to coor-
dinate/evaluate the NCIS for any impact to the nuclear certified status of the subject item.
   3.5. Evaluate the first article or first production configuration for compliance with AFMAN 91-118
   for equipment and AFMAN 91-119 for software.
NOTE: Any unfavorable engineering evaluation summary (locally determined) indicating an item
should not be nuclear certified shall result in the engineer and ES searching for a certifiable substitute or
means to modify the unacceptable item. A letter with a copy of the evaluation results shall be sent to the
requester when the evaluation is a result of a request for certification from an organization outside the
Group.
   3.6. Any change or modification (including part substitution/replacement) to nuclear certified support
   equipment, test equipment, software, or vehicle listed in the MNCL requires an initial evaluation by
   the engineer to determine the nuclear certification impact of the change.
NOTE: Items that do not require nuclear certification are outlined in Section B, paragraph 5 of AFI
91-103, Air Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program.
       3.6.1. The engineer shall evaluate the necessity of the change and determine if the change will
       work. Obsolete part replacements or component changes shall be evaluated as to form, fit, and
       function equivalence and OSS&E in accordance with AFI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational
       Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E. Part number changes would not generally require
       498 NSG/Certification Division concurrence unless the part number is listed in the MNCL.
       3.6.2. If the evaluation shows any change to the form, fit or functional characteristics of the item
       or any of the characteristics of the material making up the item, or has specific criteria in AFMAN
       91-118 or AFMAN 91-119, a formal engineering evaluation is required. This evaluation will be
       provided to support the recommendations in the Nuclear Certification Impact Statement (NCIS)
       IAW AFI 63-125. This will serve as formal notification to the 498 NSG/Certification Division of
       the configuration change or modification and will request their evaluation for continued nuclear
8                                                           ROBINSAFBI63-125 3 NOVEMBER 2006


       certification of the item. The NCIS should be submitted early enough in the modification process
       to allow the 498 NSG/Certification Division sufficient time to coordinate/evaluate the change or
       modification among the requisite certification process owners.
       3.6.3. All changes to the configuration of an end item shall be coordinated with the configuration
       control Executive Secretariat.
    3.7. Repair efforts such as depot or overhaul work shall be reviewed as a potential change to the con-
    figuration of the end item. The governing work specification shall be reviewed. All work which is
    accomplished in accordance with the Technical Orders, to include the IPB shall not require an NCIS.
    However any part substitution due to part obsolescence or technology insertion requires submission of
    an NCIS. Likewise other deviations from the Technical Orders may require an NCIS.

4. Groups without a co-located Nuclear Certification Manager (NCM)
    4.1. The F-15E weapon system is nuclear certified. The NCM is located at Wright Patterson AFB in
    the 912 AESG/VA. The NCM is nominated by 912 AESG/VA and appointed by the SM in 830
    ACSG. At WRALC the maintenance of the weapon system’s nuclear certification is an integral part of
    the aircraft’s system safety program. This safety program includes Boeing, the prime contractor. The
    830 ACSG’s safety program manager is also the Nuclear Certification representative at the local level.
    Nuclear Certification actions associated with acquisition are handled by the NCM at WPAFB. All
    stakeholders in the process maintain close coordination on Nuclear Certification issues.
    4.2. The C-17 is certified to transport nuclear weapons. The NCM is located at Wright Patterson AFB
    in C17 SG. Since the aircraft is still in acquisition all nuclear surety activities are handled at WPAFB.
    Sustainment activities at WRALC are handled by the prime contractor at this time.

5. Adopted Forms: AFMC IMT 807, Recommended Quality Assurance Provisions and Special
Inspection Requirements and CDMS Form 761, Acquisition Data Worksheet.



                                                W. MICHAEL HATCHER, SES
                                                Director of Engineering
ROBINSAFBI63-125 3 NOVEMBER 2006                                                                 9


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 91-1, Nuclear Weapons and System Surety
AFI 63-125, Nuclear Certification Program
AFI 63-1201, Assurance of Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E)
AFI 91-101, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Surety Program
AFI 91-102, Nuclear Weapon System Safety Studies, Operational Safety Reviews, and Safety Rules
AFI 91-103, Air Force Nuclear Safety Design Certification Program
AFI 91-107, Design, Evaluation, Troubleshooting, and Maintenance Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Sys-
tems
AFMAN 91-118, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapons Systems
AFMAN 91-119, Safety Design and Evaluation Criteria for Nuclear Weapon Systems Software
Master Nuclear Certification List (MNCL), https://wwwmil.nwd.kirtland.af.mil/mncl/index.cfm
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFRP 91-3, Weapons Journal
AFMCI 90-204, Nuclear Weapons Management
AFMCI 21-301, Air Force Material Command Technical Order System Implementing Policies
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFMAN 91-221, Weapons Safety Investigations and Reports
