BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                           10-3

                                                                           23 DECEMBER 2009
                                                     Incorporating Change IC-1 , 30 JUNE 2011

                                                                                       Operations

                                                      RELEASE OF PERSONNEL DUE TO
                                                 HAZARDOUS WEATHER OR EMERGENCY
                                                                       CONDITIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 78 ABW/XPX                                                         Certified by: 78 ABW/XP
                                                                                  (Forest Johnson)
Supersedes:    RAFBI 10-3, July 2007                                                       Pages: 7


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness, ability to
continue operations in the event of hostile action, natural disaster, or other emergency condition;
AFPD 15-1, Atmosphere and Space Environmental Support, by providing timely, accurate, and
meaningful weather support to US Forces, national programs, and other military and government
agencies, as required; AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, all Air Force members will be present
for duty unless their absence is authorized. It further provides directions to be implemented
toward the orderly release and evacuation of personnel from Robins Air Force Base (RAFB) due
to an emergent and/or hazardous situation. These situations could be related to weather,
peacetime accident or terrorist incident (to include weapons of mass destruction). The
instruction addresses actions to support decision-making at the Center, Wing, and Unit
Commander levels and provides specific guidance for implementation of leave protocols for
civilian personnel. While it is noted that associate unit commanders have the authority to
approve administrative leave and release their personnel, execution of this instruction is
accomplished to ensure the health and safety of all personnel on the installation. Therefore, the
instruction applies to all personnel assigned to Robins AFB, including associate units. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
 2                                                    ROBINSAFBI10-3 23 DECEMBER 2009


System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change implements new guidelines for the notification of base senior leadership
with instructions regarding base total closure, partial closure, or modified duty hours secondary
to hazardous weather or emergency condition at Robins Air Force Base (AFB). It further
identifies a change in the communications program utilized to make the necessary advisory and
supersedes the present notification matrix at Attachment 2.
1. Purpose. This instruction is directed toward the orderly release and evacuation of personnel
under emergency conditions at Robins Air Force Base (AFB) or in the surrounding communities.
For the purpose of this document, emergency conditions are those which may prevent employees
from reporting for work, or may necessitate the closing of Robins AFB activities totally or in
part. These conditions may be the result of a natural disaster or of an impending disaster.
     1.1. Execution. Release of personnel is predicated upon ensuring the health and safety of all
     personnel. In the event of an emergent situation occurring or likely to affect Robins AFB,
     the Commander, Warner Robins Air Logistics Center (WR-ALC/CC) will render a decision
     to the 78th Air Base Wing Commander (78 ABW/CC) as to any change in duty hours for
     Robins AFB personnel. The 78 ABW/CC, hereinafter referred to as Installation Commander,
     will provide direction and oversight to execute the WR-ALC/CC decision, whether it is a
     time-phased shutdown of the installation or modification of scheduled duty hours. Unit
     Commanders, in-turn, will comply with the directions provided from the Installation
     Commander. Personnel assigned to the installation will follow the directions for dismissal
     and seek direction for return to duty.
        1.1.1. This instruction should be briefed to all personnel.
2. Definitions. These definitions are applicable to the context of this instruction and are listed
to provide standardization among base units.
     2.1. Mission Essential Task. A task directly supporting a wartime, national emergency or
     local contingency operation. This task could be a routinely scheduled duty or a scenario-
     driven function requiring completion.
     2.2. Mission Essential Personnel. Personnel (military or civilian) assigned by supervisory
     personnel to complete mission essential tasks as defined above. These personnel should be
     advised in writing of their designation by their commander.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. WR-ALC/CC. In accordance with, AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, WR-ALC/CC is
     the authority for granting administrative leave for Robins AFB employees. Because of the
     impact to the mission of this installation and associated delays/financial impacts, WR-
     ALC/CC will provide direction for application of administrative leave regarding any closure,
     whether total or partial. The decision to close the installation is made in concert with the
     Installation Commander and key advisors, as time allows. If the WR-ALC/CC closes the
     entire installation, associate units' personnel will be released. However, if the installation
     remains open for mission essential personnel, associate unit commanders will make the
ROBINSAFBI10-3 23 DECEMBER 2009                                                                    3


  decision on when their personnel will be released and will be the authority for granting
  administrative leave.
  3.2. Installation Commander:
     3.2.1. Has the responsibility to execute the decision fully or partially to close the base.
     3.2.2. Monitor daily events such as intelligence, weather, force protection issues, etc.,
     that could escalate and create a situation necessitating implementation of this instruction.
     3.2.3. Upon implementation of this instruction, ensure that direction is disseminated to
     all affected organizations.
     3.2.4. Direct Public Affairs (78 ABW/PA) to provide subsequent reporting instructions
     to base employees via local radio and television networks.
     3.2.5. Initiate coordination with/inquiries to local mayors, civil authorities, and
     community leaders in a timely manner to assure effective liason and understanding with
     related civil actions/ announcements.
  3.3. Unit Commanders.
     3.3.1. Identify mission essential tasks within their organization, which will be required to
     be performed even in the event of a base closure. Ensure sufficient mission essential
     personnel remain to provide completion of the tasks required. The following guidance
     may be utilized by management if it becomes necessary to require civilian personnel to
     remain on duty and/or report for duty when the rest of the base is partially or totally
     closed:
         3.3.1.1. Discretion should be taken to not assign an entire office or shop as mission
         essential, rather, designate a number that may be needed.
         3.3.1.2. If a partial release is authorized and/or a situation requires fewer personnel
         than assigned as mission essential personnel, the following methods may be invoked
         by management to determine which personnel remain.
            3.3.1.2.1. Volunteers.
            3.3.1.2.2. Assignment to duty by Service Computation Date.
     3.3.2. Accomplish the following upon official notification of base closure:
         3.3.2.1. Implement instructions from the Installation Commander.
         3.3.2.2. Activate Unit Control Centers (UCCs) to receive and up-channel pertinent
         information to Installation Control Center (ICC) as required.
         3.3.2.3. Assess requirements for personnel to accomplish mission essential tasks and
         notify personnel assigned these responsibilities.
         3.3.2.4. Upon receipt of direction from the Installation Commander via Crisis Action
         Team (CAT) directive or the AtHoc automated notification system, release 25% of
         assigned non-mission essential personnel immediately and another 25% each 20
         minutes thereafter to minimize traffic congestion. Follow other/differentiating
         guidance as directed. Supervisors will depart in the last increment.
  3.4. 78th Security Forces Squadron Commander (78 SFS/CC):
4                                                    ROBINSAFBI10-3 23 DECEMBER 2009


       3.4.1. Designates the Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC) to oversee emergency
       release.
       3.4.2. Determine if release of personnel will impede or block normal traffic flow from
       Robins AFB onto State Road 247.
       3.4.3. Notify the Warner Robins Police Department, Houston County and Bibb County
       Sheriffs’ offices when the decision is made to release personnel from duty. Relay any
       request(s) for additional resources listed in mutual aid agreements at this time.
       3.4.4. Evaluate the need to establish traffic control points prior to the announced release
       time or within 20 minutes following notification that personnel are to be released. Have
       mobile patrols monitor major intersections to watch for and eliminate possible congested
       conditions.
    3.5. Directorate of Personnel (WR-ALC/DP):
       3.5.1. Advise WR-ALC/CC regarding effect of administrative leave authorization.
       3.5.2. Provide guidance to senior staff personnel regarding governing
       instructions/directives allowing/disallowing the pay status of personnel affected by the
       closure. The following is provided for baseline determinations.
          3.5.2.1. Early Dismissal.
              3.5.2.1.1. Only employees covered by the dismissal order and who are in a duty
              status (not on leave nor expected to return from leave during the tour of duty) at
              the time the early dismissal takes effect are excused without charge to leave.
              3.5.2.1.2. Employees who take leave prior to the dismissal order and not expected
              to return to duty that day will be charged leave as appropriate.
              3.5.2.1.3. If an employee was on duty and departed after official word was
              received, but prior to the time set for dismissal, leave is charged until the time set
              for dismissal.
              3.5.2.1.4. If the employee is absent on approved leave for the entire work shift,
              the entire absence is charged to the appropriate leave.
          3.5.2.2. Late Reporting.
              3.5.2.2.1. Dependent upon hazardous weather conditions, tardiness not in excess
              of 2 hours is approved if the employee states that the tardiness resulted from the
              hazardous weather condition.
              3.5.2.2.2. The WR-ALC/CC may also excuse tardiness in excess of 2 hours
              because of unavoidable delay resulting from adverse weather or from disruption
              of public or private transportation in individual cases after review and reasonable
              confirmation of circumstances warranting excusal.
              3.5.2.2.3. Employees who do not report for duty are charged leave for absence
              unless WR-ALC/CC has issued a group dismissal announcement or has
              determined that the condition is so severe as to warrant excusal of employees who
              are unable to report for duty.
ROBINSAFBI10-3 23 DECEMBER 2009                                                               5


          3.5.2.3. Dismissals due to excessive heat in most work places should be rare to non-
          existent. The only exceptions should be where working conditions in hot weather
          become unusually bad. Group dismissal for extreme heat stress will be made by WR-
          ALC/CC only when health hazardous conditions cannot be controlled by a work-rest
          regimen. The 78th Medical Group Commander (78 MDG/CC) will advise WR-
          ALC/CC and Installation Commander when such hazardous conditions exist
          according to currently accepted medical standards and criteria.
          3.5.2.4. When conditions arise outside of normal duty hours resulting in base closure,
          excused absences are authorized for all employees except those in a non-pay status on
          the day immediately before closure and the day after reopening and those identified
          as mission essential personnel.
      3.5.3. Advise the American Federation of Government Employees (AFGE) Local #987
      president of WR-ALC/CC’s decision to release personnel and the time of
      implementation.
   3.6. All Base Employees. In the event of a partial or total closure of the installation,
   employees will actively seek out return to duty instructions from local television and radio
   networks.
4. Communications. The standard method of notification to base personnel will be in the
following order.
   4.1. AtHoc. The AtHoc automated notification system is the primary notification system.
   4.2.1.   If activated, the Crisis Action Team (CAT) will follow current notification
   procedures to relay instructions provided by the WR-ALC/CC or designated representative.
      4.2.2. When the Crisis Action Team (CAT) has not been activated, the Robins Command
      Post (78 ABW/CP) will relay instructions provided by the WR-ALC/CC or designated
      representative using the appropriate recall or notification Controller Checklist.
   4.3. Communications-Out (COMM-OUT) Process. Use in the event that the
   AENS/telephone service is inoperable. The 78 ABW/CP may use any available method for
   emergency notification, i.e., cable television, message system, Mass Notification System
   (MNS), Postmaster email, runners, etc.
5. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   5.1. Prescribed Forms: No forms prescribed.
   5.2. Adopted Forms:
       AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                           CARL A. BUHLER, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                                ROBINSAFBI10-3 23 DECEMBER 2009


                                        Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 30 October 2006
AFPD 15-1, Atmosphere and Space Environmental Support, 8 January 2001
AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, 29 October 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 5 September 2002

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF— Air Force
AFB— Air Force Base
AFGE— American Federation of Government Employees
AFI— Air Force Instruction
AFPD— Air Force Publishing Directive
AFRIMS— Air Force Recods Information Management System
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AtHoc— Automated Notification System
BDOC— Base Defense Operations Center
COOM—OUT - Communications-Out
ICC— Instalation Control Center
MNS— Mass Notification System
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
RAFB— Robins Air Force Base
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
UCC— Unit Control Center
ROBINSAFBI10-3 23 DECEMBER 2009            7


                            Attachment 2

 Delete
