BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                        35-101

                                                                               26 AUGUST 2009

                                                                                   Public Affairs

                                                          WR-ALC COMMUNICATION PLANS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: Access to this publication is restricted; this publication is classified
               FOUO; requests for accessibility must be approved by the OPR.


OPR: 78 ABW/PA                                           Certified by: WR-ALC/XP (Kim L. Lynn)
                                                                                     Pages: 18



This instruction implements AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures. It describes the
Communication Plans development and management process at the Warner Robins Air Logistics
Center (WR-ALC). This instruction is applicable to organizations within the WR-ALC. Send
comments and suggestions about this publication for improvements on AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication, to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR).
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

1. Purpose: The purpose of this instruction is to establish the processes and responsibilities for
the WR-ALC wings and staff to develop communication plans; which help impart WR-ALC
priorities and issues to internal and external audiences to increase awareness, and to inform, and
foster support. This instruction provides a framework and template designed to ensure all WR-
ALC’s themes and messages are communicated to the correct audiences in a thorough,
consistent, timely and effective method. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and
support information.
2. Background: It is vital that WR-ALC leadership convey clear, concise themes and messages
to targeted audiences. These messages must be consistent with the Air Force’s and AFMC’s
broad priorities as follows:
   2.1. Reinvigorate the Air Force nuclear enterprise,
   2.2. Partner with the Joint Team to win today’s fight,
2                                                     ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009


    2.3. Develop and care for Airmen and their families,
    2.4. Modernize our air and space inventories, organizations, and training; and 5) Acquisition
    excellence. Opportunities to reach key audiences will be chosen and executed to achieve
    maximum potential and intended effects.
3. Objectives:
    3.1. Actively engage audiences to build awareness of the value of a strong Air Force, and
    AFMC’s and WR-ALC’s roles in executing our nation’s strategic objectives.
    3.2. Audiences should also gain an understanding of current WR-ALC’s operations,
    programs and how they support the joint warfighter, underscored by information about future
    plans and programs needed to continue and expand this capability.
    3.3. Engage internal audiences to strengthen their connection to the mission, build their
    understanding and support for the Air Force, AFMC and WR-ALC’s priorities, and provide
    the tools for them to communicate the messages.
    3.4. Provide a template to ensure standard work on Emerging and Tactical Issues.
4. Assumptions:
    4.1. General public and Congressional recognition of the value of the Air Force’s
    contribution to national security, and the AFMC and WR-ALC mission is needed to gain
    support for continued funding for Air Force capabilities.
    4.2. Traditional, mainstream media outlets are experiencing a decline in viewers and readers.
    There has been a shift toward news services, trade publications, cable channels and the
    internet. The Air Force, AFMC, and WR-ALC must adjust communication efforts
    accordingly to leverage these opportunities.
    4.3. Communities near Robins AFB will have a vested interest in the Air Force, AFMC and
    WR-ALC issues, particularly those that impact their communities.
    4.4. News media deliver information and news in quick, concise packages. Bloggers,
    podcasters and similar new media producers often lack editorial oversight of their work but
    seek to authenticate or discredit information and add transparency. The WR-ALC story must
    be clear, concise and consistent.
    4.5. Robins AFB employs over 19,000 military members, civilian employees and
    contractors. To remain competitive demands a level of effort and engagement from the total
    force. Internal communication is essential to take care of the workforce and assure its
    productivity. The more informed employees are, the better they can see how they contribute
    to the mission.
5. Responsibilities:
    5.1. WR-ALC/XP will        develop,   write,   coordinate   and   publish   RAFB     35-101,
    Communication Plans.
    5.2. 78 ABW/PA will:
       5.2.1. Update RAFBI 35-101 as required.
       5.2.2. Serve as repository for all Center, Wing and Staff Communication Plans.
ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009                                                               3


       5.2.3. Serve as subject matter expert on current ALC themes and messages.
       5.2.4. Provide guidance to Senior Leaders on issues warranting a communication plan.
       5.2.5. Advise the WR-ALC commander, other staff members, and wing commanders on
       public affairs matters.
       5.2.6. Serve as the focal point for all media queries and media-related issues.
       5.2.7. Provide security review of all text and imagery proposed for public release.
   5.3. Senior Leaders and wing commanders will:
       5.3.1. Use this instruction as a shared process with 78 ABW/PA to effectively and
       consistently communicate WR-ALC messages to target audiences.
       5.3.2. Notify 78 ABW/PA on potential plans for specific guidance or relevant
       information.
       5.3.3. Use the attached template and checklists to ensure WR-ALC messages are
       comprehensive and complete, shaped to support the Air Force, AFMC and Center
       priorities, and conveyed to the proper audiences.
       5.3.4. Forward all completed Communication Plans to 78 ABW/PA for consolidation.
       5.3.5. Ensure sustainment of their respective organization’s Communication Plans.
6. Key Themes and Messages: WR-ALC’s key themes and messages reflect support for the
Air Force and AFMC priorities, and provide the basis for synchronized and consistent
communication efforts by the Center. The key themes and messages are all important and are not
listed in any particular priority. 78 ABW/PA will maintain current themes and messages in
addition to the ones listed below.
   6.1. WR-ALC is in the Joint Fight: The men and women of WR-ALC play an integral role
   today in executing our nation’s strategic objectives. WR-ALC provides force deployment –
   more than 15,000 for Operations Iraqi Freedom, Enduring Freedom and Noble Eagle since
   2001 – and program support to our nation’s and allies’ ground and air weapons systems.
   6.2. People First, Mission Always: We’re committed to our people. We work hard to
   provide them with the tools they need to do their jobs and a safe working environment. By
   taking care of our people, they take care of the mission.
   6.3. People, Processes, Performance, and Infrastructure (P3I): P3I keeps us focused on four
   core elements:
       6.3.1. People – Our most valuable resource; they’re highly-trained, highly motivated and
       get the job done.
       6.3.2. Processes – Our practices are modeled after the best in the industry. And we’re
       continually looking to improve and to become even more efficient (i.e. AFSO21,
       Energy/Resource Conservation efforts).
       6.3.3. Performance – Our nation and our allies have put their faith in us, and we deliver
       as promised ... on-time and on-cost.
4                                                     ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009


       6.3.4. Infrastructure – We work hard to give our people the necessary tools to do their
       jobs. This includes providing them with the safe environments in which to work (i.e.
       Voluntary Protection Program (VPP)).
    6.4. Relationships: A special sense of unity and patriotic pride emanates from the people of
    Middle Georgia and makes us feel at home. WR-ALC is important to Middle Georgia …it’s
    Georgia’s largest industrial complex, with over 19,000 employees, with an annual payroll of
    over $1.3 billion, and a total economic impact of nearly $3.9 billion. WR-ALC also enjoys
    many partnerships – engineering partnerships, depot maintenance partnerships, education
    partnerships, and state and local community partnerships. It is this teamwork that makes the
    future of the base, community, and industry bright.
    6.5. Future: The current wartime operations tempo – combined with increased numbers of
    aging aircraft, a diminishing number of suppliers, and constrained budgets – demands that we
    continually review how we do business. We realize how well we meet customer requirements
    today will influence our opportunities.
7. Audiences: Audiences vary. Communications could involve internal or external audiences,
or both. Internal audiences include military members, civilian employees and contractors of
Team Robins. External audiences include media, government officials and the general public. A
checklist of both internal and external audiences is provided in Attachment 2. Action officers
should review these lists to ensure they have included all desired audiences. Once the audiences
have been determined, it is essential to determine what desired effect the communication should
produce for each segmented audience. The purpose of the communication usually falls into three
general groupings:
    7.1. Awareness: Those who are relatively unaffected by the initiative or issue at this time,
    but who need to be aware of the initiative or issue.
    7.2. Understanding: Those who need to maintain an understanding of the initiative or issue
    and how it is progressing.
    7.3. Commitment: Those who need to be actively engaged and committed to the work of the
    specific initiative or issue. This audience group needs to be kept informed and involved at
    every stage, and ranges from workforce personnel affected by the initiative or issue to
    government officials and/or the general public, if their support of the initiative or issue is
    needed.
8. Medium: Messages can be delivered via multiple mediums and methods, which are normally
determined by the audience and the purpose of the communication. Attachment 3 list some of
the communication mediums to be considered.
9. Strategy and Engagement: An effective communication plan should feature both strategic
and tactical (engagement) planning. The strategic portion is broad in scope and focused on the
future; it should be reflected in the plan’s strategic intent. The engagement portion contains the
actual steps and actions (tactics) to be taken to achieve the desired effect(s).
10. Feedback and Evaluation: Feedback is necessary to confirm the messages have been
received and understood by the intended audience(s). Evaluation of feedback may dictate
changes in messages, mediums, messengers and/or audiences. Feedback can range from direct,
verbal conversations and letters to newspapers to formal surveys. Awareness communication
ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                  5


may not require as detailed feedback as messages designed to create understanding or gain
commitment.
11. Planned Events: Senior Leaders will review and ensure their organizations are prepared to
communicate information about planned events (new programs or acquisitions, initiatives,
milestones or anniversaries, etc.) in their organizations. Senior Leaders should contact 78
ABW/PA to determine if a communication plan is appropriate and/or feasible. Attachment 4
provides a template for presenting appropriate and consistent messages for planned events.
Criteria for using the template include, but are not limited to:
   11.1. Events that provoke public interest and questions.
   11.2. Events that provoke Congressional interest and questions.
   11.3. Events that provoke higher headquarters interest and questions.
   11.4. Events that provoke internal audience interest and questions.
12. Unplanned Events and Emerging Issues: Unplanned events and emerging issues such as
crises, unforecasted happenings, and targets of opportunity often spring up quickly and require
nimble, cross functional activity. Senior Leaders must be able to respond to these, whether they
are positive or potentially negative. Due to the nature of how these develop, Senior Leaders
should contact 78 ABW/PA to determine if a communication plan is appropriate and/or feasible.
13. Procedures:
   13.1. Wing Commanders and WR-ALC Staff will immediately prepare a Communication
   Plan using Attachment 5, Communications Plan Template, when they become aware of any
   event or issue described in 11.1. - 11.4, or 12, and such a plan is determined to be appropriate
   and/or feasible. Attachment 5 is a Notional Completed Template.
   13.2. All Communication Plans will be prepared and coordinated with a Staff Summary
   Sheet (SSS) within five working days after awareness or notification of an event or issue.
   OPRs of the event or issue will be responsible for writing and coordinating the plan.
       13.2.1. All Communication Plans will be coordinated through all affected organizations,
       including, as needed, the Union (AFGE Local 987), DP and other Staff Agencies, and
       affected Associate Units.
       13.2.2. All Communication Plans involving information to be released to the public will
       be coordinated through 78ABW/PA.
   13.3. Approval authority
       13.3.1. Wing commanders can approve a Communication Plan dealing with issues or
       events internal to their wing, with no impact on other Wings, WR-ALC, or the general
       public.
       13.3.2. WR-ALC/CA will approve Communication Plans for:
           13.3.2.1. Issues or events that involve more than one Wing, associate units, staff
           agency.
           13.3.2.2. Events or issues that provoke interest or questions from members of
           Congress, higher headquarters or the general public.
6                                                      ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009


           13.3.2.3. Any event or issue that might result in negative publicity.
    13.4. Upon approval, all plans will be forwarded electronically to 78 ABW/PA.
14. Communication Tools: Table 1 is a list of communication tools devised to help
Communication Planners (or AOs) look at audiences and mediums. An explanation is provided
showing specific examples how the mediums could be used.

Table 1. List of Communication Tools.

       TYPE                   AUDIENCE                           POSSIBLE MEDIUMS
INTERNAL              Base Population                 - Cascading messages issued via meetings
                                                                and briefings from Executive
                                                                Council down to the lowest level
                                                      - Message Cards
                                                      - Marquee postings
                                                      - Weekly roll calls
                                                      - Article in base newspaper
                                                      - E-mail notification via e-mail workflow
                                                                 boxes
                                                      -Notifications on bulletin boards
EXTERNAL              Public/Government               - Media Coverage – must be coordinated
                                                               through 78 ABW/PA
                                                      - Speeches by senior leadership at public
                                                                assemblies, such as community
                                                                club meetings, etc.
The following provides examples of some of the communication tools, methods and mediums
          described in the matrix above.

Cascading Messages: Message to be relayed at executive council and other senior staff meetings –
          WR-ALC/CC or CA deploys message to senior leadership. Senior leaders then deploy
          message to their group leaders or equivalent, who then relays the message to the next
          level. This cascading continues until the message is delivered to the lowest level and it
          is ensured that all understand the information and intent of the message. (Note: Wings
          and Groups use this same method when deploying messages that begin at their level)


Critical Message Cards: Cards which provide a key message or important information from the
           Center or Wing commander.


Media Coverage: All information that is released to the public must be vetted through the 78
         ABW/PA. If an office is approached by off-base media, it should contact 78 ABW/PA
ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                7


           prior to engaging with the media.


Messages on Base Marquees: Contact 78 ABW/PA at 926-2137.


Weekly Roll Calls: Leaders pass messages directly to their subordinates.


Rev-Up Articles: Contact the Rev-Up editor at 222-0304.


E-mail Notifications Via E-mail: This may be accomplished by sending one e-mail to the
          organization’s workflow boxes. The message can ten be distributed throughout the
          organization by each division.


Speeches By Senior Leadership: Often the Center commander or other senior leaders are asked to
          speak or present briefings at off-base functions. This provides an opportunity to
          communicate the Center’s role in supporting our nation’s warfighters to non WR-ALC
          audiences. Members of the WR-ALC Commander’s Action Group and 78 ABW/PA
          can help units prepare briefing and/or information papers for presentation to these
          audiences.

15. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                               POLLY A. PEYER, Major General, USAF
                                               Commander, Warner Robins Air Logistics Center
8                                                 ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures, 29 November 2005
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009                           9


                                     Attachment 2
              INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL AUDIENCE CHECKLISTS

Figure A2.1. Internal and External Audience Checklists.
10                                            ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009


                                    Attachment 3
                INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL MEDIUM CHECKLIST

Figure A3.1. Internal Medium Checklist.
ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009           11


Figure A3.2. External Medium Checklist.
12                                            ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009


                                   Attachment 4
           TEMPLATE FOR EMERGING ISSUE COMMUNICATION PLAN

Table A4.1. Template For Emerging Issue Communication Plan.

PURPOSE:



POCS:



BACKGROUND:



STRATEGIC INTENT:




PROPOSED ENGAGEMENT STRATEGY:



AUDIENCES AND DESIRED EFFECTS:



THEMES:




               THEMES                                   MESSAGES
ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009                    13




Figure A4. 1. Emerging Issue Communication Plan.
14                                           ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009


                                  Attachment 5
           KZ-103 DELAY IN PDM OUTPUT COMMUNICATION PLAN

Figure A5.1. KZ-103 Delay in PDM Output Communication Plan.
ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009                                              15


Figure A5.2. KZ-103 Delay in PDM Output Communication Plan (Continuation).
16                                            ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009


Figure A5.3. KZ-103 Delay in PDM Output Communication Plan (Continuation).
ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009                                                                  17


Figure A5.4. KZ-103 Delay in PDM Output Communication Plan (Continuation).




                                QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

Q1. How did production become delayed on the PDM of KZ-103 aircraft?
A1. This temporary delay was caused by the unexpected destruction by fire and subsequent
closure of the Widget Corp. facility in Tinytown, Georgia. Widget Corp. was the source for the
widgets necessary to complete PDM on the KZ-103 aircraft.

Q2. How many aircraft are going to be delayed and what commands do they belong to? (is this
not an OPSEC type issue – do we really want to identify publicly? Recommend deletion based
on OPSEC concerns.)
A2. Up to 5 aircraft are going to be delayed in completing the programmed depot maintenance
process.

Q3. What are you doing to alleviate this problem?
A3. We implemented a recovery plan that consists of three basic elements which include re-
engineering of the widgets and manufacture in the 402 CMXG, revision of the PDM due date of
the aircraft which will be affected by this delay, and mandatory overtime for the affected work
force until the aircraft flow returns to normal. The mandatory overtime will consist of 10-hour
shifts, 5 days a week. We have one of the most talented and dedicated workforces in the world
right here at Robins Air Force Base, and they are the driving force that will carry us through this
temporary production delay.
18                                                   ROBINSAFBI35-101 26 AUGUST 2009



Q4. There has already been some discussion about low worker morale in the 402nd Aircraft
Maintenance Wing. How will mandatory overtime and leave curtailment affect morale?
A4. We have been upfront with our workers about the problems we are facing on the KZ-103
PDM line, and have been in constant touch with the union leadership here as well. They are
aware this is a temporary problem.

Q5. What type of schedule are the employees being asked to work?
A5. They will be working 10-hour shifts, 5 days a week as mandatory overtime until we can get
production back online and on time. This production delay is expected to be temporary, and we
are taking positive steps to alleviate it is as short a time as possible.

Q6. How is the delayed delivery of these aircraft to their owning commands affect their wartime
operations?
A6. The aircraft production delay will not hamper wartime operations in the AOR or in support
of Air Sovereignty missions (homeland security protection). The units who own the aircraft that
will be delayed have been notified and have taken steps to augment their operations with other
aircraft they have available which may be pulled from non-critical areas.
