BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                       48-131

                                                                          21 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                           Aerospace Medicine

                                                                         ANIMAL CONTROL


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 78 MDG/SGV                                                       Certified by: 78 MDG/SG
                                                                          (Col James H. Dienst)
Supersedes:   ROBINSAFBI48-131,                                                        Pages: 11
              2 October 2002


This instruction aligns with Air Force Publishing Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine,
and implements Armed Force Joint Instruction (AFJI) 48-131, Veterinary Health Services. It
establishes and defines procedures and responsibilities for controlling pets on Robins Air Force
Base (AFB). It applies to all persons transporting or having an animal under their control on
Robins AFB and establishes responsibilities for Privatized Housing (PH) residents, 78th Security
Forces Squadron (78 SFS), US Army Veterinary Services, and 78th Civil Engineer Group (78
CEG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)       Records     Disposition       Schedule      (RDS)      located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It aligns the US Army
Veterinary Clinic under the 78th Medical Group (78 MDG/CC).
 2                                                   ROBINSAFBI48-131 21 FEBRUARY 2013


1. Procedures.
     1.1. No more than two pets per household (or family) may be kept in the PH areas of Robins
     AFB. Requests for exceptions to this policy will be submitted, in writing to 78 CEG/CEAC
     (PH). The only exception to this will be a litter of puppies or kittens. They will be allowed
     to remain on the premises for a period of not more than 10 weeks after their birth to allow for
     weaning and disposition. Pit bulls (including American Staffordshire Bull Terriers or
     English Staffordshire Bull Terriers), Rottweilers, Doberman Pinschers, Chows, and wolf
     hybrids are breeds of dogs that are prohibited on Robins AFB. Exotic pets such as snakes,
     skunks, raccoons, foxes, coyotes, wolves, bats, alligators, and primates are strictly prohibited
     on Robins AFB. Domestic farm animals such as cattle, potbelly pigs, and chickens are
     prohibited on Robins AFB.
        1.1.1. A person desiring to ride a horse on any part of Robins AFB other than the area
        designated by 78 FSS/SSCO must contact 78 FSS/SSCO for permission (riders will be
        responsible for removal of feces).
     1.2. The following conditions apply to personnel keeping pets in PH:
        1.2.1. Registration. Register dogs, cats and ferrets when they are immunized (meet
        vaccination age), or within two weeks of arrival on base, and yearly thereafter, triennially
        for rabies vaccination. To register horses, furnish Coggins test (performed within 30
        days), deworming (within 30 days), immunizations (Attachment 2), and a health
        certificate prior to the horses’ arrival on base. A licensed veterinarian, available by the
        US Army Veterinary Service in building 703, will furnish and prepare DD Form 2208,
        Rabies Vaccination Certificate. Information from a valid rabies certificate issued by a
        licensed practicing veterinarian will be transcribed on the DD Form 2208. Failure to
        maintain current vaccinations on a dog, cat, ferret or horse will be grounds for its removal
        from Robins AFB and disciplinary action against the owner.
        1.2.2. Immunizations. Dog, cat, ferret and horse owners will comply with the health
        requirements set forth by the US Army Veterinary Services, Robins AFB, at the time of
        registration. Owners will have dogs, cats, ferrets, and horses immunized and tested for
        contagious diseases (Attachment 2). Failure to comply with this requirement and have
        animals immunized within the month of their due date will be grounds for the immediate
        removal of animals from Robins AFB.
        1.2.3. Identification. Affix the metal rabies tag issued at the time of immunization to the
        dog or cat collar.      This speeds owner identification and validation of rabies
        immunization. Failure to comply with these provisions will subject the offender to
        disciplinary action.
            1.2.3.1. Micro chipping of dogs and cats residing on Robins AFB PH is mandatory
            and available through the US Army Veterinary Services Clinic.
     1.3. Abuse or Neglect. Immediately report cases of animal abuse or neglect to the 78 SFS.
     The veterinarian will advise the Commander, 78th Air Base Wing (78 ABW/CC) in cases of
     alleged animal abuse or disregard for proper animal care. Violations include but are not
     limited to:
        1.3.1. Failure to provide adequate living space and appropriate shelter from the elements.
ROBINSAFBI48-131 21 FEBRUARY 2013                                                              3


     1.3.2. Failure to provide food and water daily.
     1.3.3. Abandoning any animal.
     1.3.4. Failure on the part of a motor vehicle driver to report to 78 SFS the death or injury
     of an animal struck by said driver.
     1.3.5. Leaving or exposing an animal to any poisonous substance or aiding or soliciting
     any person to do so.
     1.3.6. Leaving an animal unattended in a vehicle.
     1.3.7. Failure to maintain clean premises. Remove animal waste from common areas
     (home, yards, kennels, and outdoor cages) at least daily.
  1.4. Abandonment. Owners will not abandon their pets upon departure from this base for
  any reason. Animals will be placed in the care of a responsible party, or the local Humane
  Society.
  1.5. Removal of pets from Robins AFB for cause:
     1.5.1. Pet owners whose pets are involved in any combination of three of the following
     violations within a 12-month period must remove the pet from Robins AFB. Pets that:
         1.5.1.1. Are not controlled (on a leash),
         1.5.1.2. Cause unsanitary conditions,
         1.5.1.3. Cause destruction of property,
         1.5.1.4. Create a disturbance of the peace, or
         1.5.1.5. Do not have current immunizations or are not given heartworm preventive
         according to paragraphs 1.1.1.2. and A1.3.3., respectively.
     1.5.2. The owner must immediately remove pets from Robins AFB declared vicious by
     the 78 ABW/CC and US Army Veterinary Services Clinic. One incident or attack may
     justify the 78 ABW/CC to declare an animal vicious; however, pets involved in an
     unprovoked attack, regardless of whether the attack is classified as a scratch or bite, are
     deemed to have vicious tendencies. The US Army Veterinarian, Commander, 78
     SFS/CC, and the Staff Judge Advocate (78 th ABW), or their designated representatives,
     will act as advisors to the 78 ABW/CC to determine whether a pet will be declared
     vicious. The 78 SFS will investigate all cases of animal bites that take place within the
     limits of Robins AFB.
         1.5.2.1. The 78 ABW/CC will notify pet owners, in writing, to remove their pets
         from the base. Owners must present written/verbal verification of the pet’s removal
         within 24 hours of that notice.
     1.5.3. Animal bites. If the pet becomes involved in a bite or scratch incident, the owner
     will report to the US Army Veterinary Services, upon request, with the pet for
     examination and quarantine instructions. Robins Public Health (78 MDG/SGPM), will
     report any stray related animal bites that take place within the limits of Robins AFB to 78
     CEG Customer Service desk immediately. Owners will keep pets having current rabies
     immunization under observation in an escape-proof outdoor cage on the owner’s
 4                                                  ROBINSAFBI48-131 21 FEBRUARY 2013


        premises or in their residence for 10 days. The pet owner will present written proof to the
        US Army Veterinary Treatment Facility that the animal has been confined for
        observation at a civilian facility within 24 hours after the incident. Failure of the owner
        to do this may cause the pet to be removed from the base and placed in quarantine by the
        78 CEG/CEOSV at the owner's expense. At their expense, owners will take pets without
        a current rabies immunization to a civilian veterinarian for 10 days. The pet will be
        released on permission of the base veterinarian. The owner will show proof of the pet’s
        current rabies immunization, along with other current required immunizations
        (Attachment 2), and bring proof of vaccinations to the Army Veterinary Treatment
        Facility before bringing the animal back on the base.
     1.6. The feeding and keeping of stray animals is strictly prohibited (except feeding backyard
     birds). No one will tamper with, move, or damage government-owned capture equipment or
     traps. No one will trap wild or stray animals other than mice and rats. Do not release
     captured or trapped animals or tamper with bait.
     1.7. The breeding and raising of animals for the purpose of commercial sale is prohibited on
     Robins AFB. A commercial breeder is an owner who allows an animal to have more than
     one litter or sells the offspring.
     1.8. Transient Animals. Authorized sponsors of a rodeo, circus, pet show, field trial, horse
     show, or other activity bringing animals on this installation will coordinate with the
     installation Veterinarian so that entry of infectious animal disease will be prevented.
     Animals visiting the installation, including trail riding horses, must meet and show proof of
     the requirements for on base animals set forth in Attachment 2 of this regulation. Entry of
     animals not listed in Attachment 2 will be handled on a case by case basis by the installation
     Veterinarian. Entry of out of state animals will be denied unless accompanied by a valid
     health certificate issued by an accredited veterinarian and in accordance with State of
     Georgia import requirements.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. The 78 SFS/CC will:
        2.1.1. Direct phone calls, questions, situations of any animal that has bitten or scratched
        any person on base to 78 MDG/SGPM or any animal that is suspected of having rabies to
        78 CEG/CEOSV.
        2.1.2. Direct the picking up and impounding of unregistered or stray animals found on
        the installation to 78 CEG/CEOSV.
     2.2. Owners will:
        2.2.1. Ensure their pets are registered and immunized according to this instruction.
        2.2.2. Ensure animals kept outside are provided a means to protect themselves from the
        weather (i.e., doghouse). A doghouse is defined as a shelter with four walls, floor, and
        roof that would serve to shield the animal from heat, cold, and wet weather conditions. It
        must be in good repair, painted or stained, and not present an unsightly appearance.
        2.2.3. Provide water and shade and ensure dogs are not chained outside longer than two
        hours when the temperature is above 90 degrees or below 35 degrees without the wind
        chill factor.
ROBINSAFBI48-131 21 FEBRUARY 2013                                                              5


     2.2.4. Keep dogs in a fenced area if they will spend extended periods outside (two or
     more consecutive hours). This area should be at least 250 square feet with warning signs
     visibly posted. Electrical and invisible fences are strictly prohibited. Note: This
     requirement prohibits the practice of chaining animals for more than two hours to outside
     structures or trees and (or) leaving them unattended. This policy will be enforced to
     reduce the possibility of damage to property and personnel.
     2.2.5. Remove feces immediately after defecation in public areas and daily from the
     animal’s confines.
     2.2.6. Report all acutely sick or dead animals as soon as possible to the base veterinarian
     for evaluation of a base threat to human health and other base pets.
     2.2.7. Supervise and control pets. Do not allow them to have access to dining halls,
     cafeterias, clubs, base exchanges, dormitories, center headquarters, medical/dental
     centers, guest house, recreational sports areas (tennis, golf, bowling, swimming, running
     tracks and others), places of public assembly (playgrounds, public buildings, theaters and
     others), or similar places where food is prepared or served. This does not apply to
     assistance dogs or military working dogs. Do not leave pets unattended in a building
     where government property may be contaminated or damaged. Do not allow dogs to
     swim in base lakes, ponds, creeks, or wetlands.
     2.2.8. Prevent pets from biting, continuous barking, or other offensive habits that would
     be regarded as a nuisance.
     2.2.9. Be responsible for property or personal damage done by their pets.
     2.2.10. Give humane treatment and care to their pets.
     2.2.11. Keep dogs on leashes, within enclosure, or within the confines of their residence.
     Do not hinder walkway to residence or allow access to neighbors’ yard. Do not chain or
     tie pets to trees in the area or otherwise cause an unsightly appearance. Keep cats strictly
     indoors.
     2.2.12. Ensure every effort is made to keep female dogs and cats in heat in the owner’s
     quarters or a secure enclosure in such a manner that the female dog or cat cannot come
     into contact with other animals.
     2.2.13. Ensure trash receptacles are sealed and no trash is left unsecured. Do not place
     trash bags on the ground beside receptacles.
     2.2.14. Ensure no pet food is left outdoors at night.
     2.2.15. Ensure pet fish or turtles are not released into the natural environment such as
     lakes, ponds, or wetlands.
6                                              ROBINSAFBI48-131 21 FEBRUARY 2013



    2.3. 78 CEG will:
       2.3.1. 78 CEG will dispose of animal carcasses after approval of the US Army
       Veterinary Services. The 78 SFS will report any dead animal observed to 78 CEG, who
       will pick up and dispose of the animal immediately. Disposal of dead pets is the
       responsibility of the pets’ owner unless ownership cannot be determined.




                                         MITCHEL H BUTIKOFER, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
ROBINSAFBI48-131 21 FEBRUARY 2013                                                           7


                                       Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine, 30 October 2005
AFJI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, 26 August 2006
Georgia Rabies Control Manual, 6 th Ed., May 2012, Georgia Department of Human Resources.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination Certificate

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFJI—Armed Forces Joint Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Publishing Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
PH—Privatized Family Housing
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
VTF—Veterinary Treatment Facility
 8                                                   ROBINSAFBI48-131 21 FEBRUARY 2013


                                            Attachment 2
                          REGISTRATION AND IMMUNIZATIONS

A2.1. Registration. Owners must:
     A2.1.1. Register all pets within 5 days of arrival at the Huntington Village office if on base
     resident. If utilizing off base housing, register your pet with county government through a
     local Veterinarian Treatment Facility (VTF) or Robins AFB VTF. At the time of registration
     the VTF will review and maintain valid health certificates, immunization certificates,
     medical records, and official laboratory reports.         Owners must submit subsequent
     immunization certificates, medical records, and laboratory reports to the VTF for review and
     file.
     A2.1.2. Securely fastens the metal rabies tag issued at the time of registration to the collar or
     harness of all pets as a means of identification. Obtain replacement for lost tags and
     certificates at the VTF.
     A2.1.3. Arrange for registration and quarantine of horses through the veterinary liaison of
     the Robins Riding Club. Quarantine all new horses arriving on base at the quarantine
     paddocks for a minimum of 14 days. A licensed veterinarian or the NCOIC of the Veterinary
     Treatment Facility will do an incoming physical of all horses. Only a licensed veterinarian
     will do quarantine release physicals. Horses will be housed in an area separate from other
     horses during the quarantine period. Horses arriving together may be quarantined as a group.
     Restrict riding or exercising of horses during the quarantine period to the quarantine paddock
     premises.
     A2.1.4. A licensed veterinary laboratory tests all horses on base, serologically, for equine
     infectious anemia (Coggins). Owners will furnish proof that such test was performed not
     more than 30 days prior to arrival on base. All horses kept on base must be tested annually,
     and an original copy of the official laboratory Coggins test results will be supplied to the
     VTF. Immunizations will be current. Deworming will be done 30 days prior to arrival and a
     health certificate from a licensed veterinarian will be submitted to the VTF prior to unloading
     the horse off the trailer.
A2.2. Immunizations. The only acceptable proof of immunization is a valid health
certificate/copy of health record issued by a licensed veterinarian. All pets and horses on this
installation will be immunized by a licensed veterinarian, at the owner’s expense, according to
the following minimum requirements: All vaccine records should be maintained at the Vet
Clinic.
     A2.2.1. Dogs.
        A2.2.1.1. Rabies - Dogs are vaccinated at three months of age or within 5 days of arrival
        at Robins AFB, revaccinated at one year, and annually thereafter.
        A2.2.1.2. Canine Distemper, Infectious Canine Hepatitis, Leptospirosis, Parainfluenza,
        and Canine Parvo Virus - All dogs must be adequately immunized against these diseases.
        All dogs and puppies as young as seven weeks of age must undergo the immunization
        program with boosters thereafter according to AVMA and US Army VETCOM
        guidelines.
ROBINSAFBI48-131 21 FEBRUARY 2013                                                             9


     A2.2.1.3. All dogs will be on heartworm prevention year round. The heart worm
     prevention used will contain an anthelmintic drug for the control of intestinal parasites.
     The VTF or a civilian veterinarian will treat dogs that test positive for heartworms. If a
     civilian veterinarian is used, proof of treatment will be supplied to the Robins AFB VTF.
     Failure to do so will result in removal of the dog from base.
     A2.2.1.4. I ntestinal Parasite Exams – All dogs will have a yearly intestinal parasite
     exam. If positive, the dog will be treated.
     A2.2.1.5. External Parasite Control – External parasites such as fleas, mites, ticks, and
     lice will be controlled as needed.
  A2.2.2. Cats.
     A2.2.2.1. Rabies - Cats are vaccinated at three months of age and revaccinated annually.
     A2.2.2.2. Panleukopenia (feline distemper), Rhinotracheitis, and Calici Virus – Cats and
     kittens as young as eight weeks of age must undergo the immunization program and be
     revaccinated according to AVMA and US Army VETCOM guidelines.
     A2.2.2.3. Intestinal Parasite Exams – All cats will have a yearly intestinal parasite exam.
     If positive, the cat will be treated.
     A2.2.2.4. External Parasite Control – External parasites such as fleas, mites, ticks, and
     lice will be controlled as needed.
  A2.2.3. Ferrets. All ferrets kept as pets on RAFB are required to be registered on base
  within two weeks of arrival (paragraph A1.1.1).
     A2.2.3.1. Rabies – All ferrets are vaccinated at three months of age and revaccinated
     annually.
     A2.2.3.2. FerVac-Distemper - All ferrets over three months of age must undergo the
     immunization program and be revaccinated according to AVMA and US Army
     VETCOM guidelines.
  A2.2.4. Horses.
     A2.2.4.1. All horses arriving on base will be considered unvaccinated for rabies unless a
     health certificate or vaccination certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian can be
     provided.
     A2.2.4.2. All horses 90 days of age and older must be vaccinated semiannually (once
     before the mosquito season) for Eastern and Western Equine Encephalomyelitis,
     Influenza, and Rhinopneumonitis.
     A2.2.4.3. All horses over 90 days of age must be vaccinated annually for rabies and
     tetanus toxoid.
     A2.2.4.4. A licensed veterinarian must immunize all horses.
     A2.2.4.5. Intestinal Parasite Control – All horses will be treated for intestinal parasites
     every 8 weeks. Intestinal parasite exams will be performed as needed based on clinical
     signs, and as a screening tool for herd health.
10                                              ROBINSAFBI48-131 21 FEBRUARY 2013


     A2.2.4.6. External Parasite Control – External parasites will be treated or controlled as
     needed.
ROBINSAFBI48-131 21 FEBRUARY 2013                                                  11


                                      Attachment 3
                                 POINTS OF CONTACT

A3.1. Points of Contact.
   A3.1.1. CEAN. Environmental Management can be reached at 468-9645. Natural Resource
   Manager can be reached after hours at 478-397-7962.
   A3.1.2. 78 CEG. The Base Civil Engineer can be reached at 469-3093.
   A3.1.3. 78 CEG/CEOSV. Entomology Shop can be reached at 468-2082.
   A3.1.4. 78 SFS. Security Forces can be reached at 926-2187.
   A3.1.5. Base Operations can be reached at 926-2114.
   A3.1.6. US Army Veterinary Treatment Facility can be reached at 497-8448.
   A3.1.7. DNR and USDA. CEAN is responsible for contacting DNR and USDA.
   A3.1.8. 78 MDG. Public Health can be reached at 497-8019.
