BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                               RAFB INSTRUCTION 48-123
WARNER ROBINS AIR LOGISTIC CENTER                                                      4 MARCH 1999

                                                                                   Aerospace Medicine

                                                          OCCUPATIONAL MEDICINE SERVICES




                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the Robins Home Page at: http://www.robins.af.mil/
imweb/IMP.htm. Customers with no access to electronic media should contact 78 CS/SCSP ext 62401 for
assistance in obtaining a printed copy.

OPR: 78 AMDS/SGPFO                                                          Certified by: 78 MDG/CC
       (Lt Col Mark F. Luppino)                                           (Col Katherine E. Scheirman)
Supersedes RAFBI 48-123, 15 March 1997                                                         Pages: 4
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction aligns with AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, and implements AFI 48-123, Med-
ical Examination and Standards. It describes the functions of the 78th Aerospace Medicine Squadron,
Occupational Medicine Services (OMS), (78 AMDS/SGPFO), Building 207, at Robins Air Force Base
(RAFB). It provides procedures by which medical and supervisory personnel will implement the require-
ments of the Occupational Medicine Program for military and civilian personnel.
SUMMARY OF CHANGES: The procedures for the care of civilian employees with occupational/
non-occupational problems were rewritten due to the permanent closing of the Robins Air Force Base
Hospital Emergency Room effective 4 January 1999. This revision also deletes the requirement for
supervisors to administer health questionnaires to individuals with driving permits.



1. FUNCTIONS:
   1.1. The OMS office will conduct medical examinations as required by appropriate official publica-
   tions and treat base personnel as described later in this instruction. The OMS office hours are
   0730-1530, Monday through Friday. Paragraphs 3.1.5 and 4.1 describe procedures for obtaining med-
   ical care after normal duty hours.

2. PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS:
   2.1. Preplacement Examinations: The Labor/Employee Management Relations Section (78 SPTG/
   DPCE) and placement offices in the servicing civilian personnel sections will refer applicants to OMS
   for initial or preplacement examinations.
2                                                                                         4 MARCH 1999

    2.2. Periodic Examinations: These examinations will be accomplished according to AFI 48-101,
    AFI 48-123 and AFOSH Standards 161-8 and 161-17.

3. RESPONSIBILITIES:
    3.1. Supervisors will:
       3.1.1. Maintain a current roster of individuals exposed to potentially hazardous toxic materials or
       hazardous noise. This roster will be provided to OMS on request for use in scheduling occupa-
       tional surveillance exams. Upon receipt of each updated roster, OMS personnel will call the
       supervisors and schedule occupational physical examination appointments for the civilian and
       military workers listed on the rosters.
       3.1.2. Call OMS to request a medical examination if an employee’s performance indicates a pos-
       sible need for corrective medical care. If the employee appears to be suffering from an emotional
       or mental disorder, the supervisor will not ask the employee to take a medical employability
       examination, undergo treatment, or discuss any aspect of the problem with the employee without
       the approval and guidance of the medical officer and the personnel counselor. When there is an
       indication that a decline in an employee’s duty performance may be caused by a health problem
       which could lead to an agency-initiated request for disability retirement, the supervisor must, in all
       cases, consult with the medical officer and the personnel counselor before taking any action.
       3.1.3. Immediately refer employees who incur job-related injuries or illnesses to OMS, building
       207 or, after hours, to an emergency room or urgent care center. If an injury or illness occurs out-
       side OMS office hours, and it is obviously very minor, the employee should be given the option of
       transporting themselves to the medical facility of their choice for treatment. If there is any doubt
       that the employee needs an attendant to accompany them to medical care, call 911 for an ambu-
       lance. If the employee needs an attendant to accompany them to medical care, call 911 for an
       ambulance. If the employee is not seen in OMS, the employee understands they must call OMS as
       soon as possible for follow-up care.
       3.1.4. Refer persons with non-occupational medical problems to their private physician for evalu-
       ation and treatment unless it appears to be an emergency, in which case, call 911 for ambulance
       service. Examples of emergencies include chest pain, seizures, or loss of consciousness. Grant
       sick leave according to appropriate personnel procedures. Referrals to OMS for non-occupational
       medical problems are outlined in paragraph 3.1.5., 3.1.6., and 3.1.8. Refer to OMS for guidance
       on restrictions or placement of any employee whose non-occupational medical problems affect
       their ability to do their job, or may be affected by their job. Call an OMS physician for guidance
       at 327-7590 if there is any doubt.
       3.1.5. Refer those employees to OMS who return to duty from sick leave of more than forty (40)
       consecutive hours, from any type of surgery, or whose presence at work determined by the super-
       visor would endanger the employee’s health or constitute a health hazard to others from illnesses
       or injuries. When reporting to OMS, the employee must present a medical certificate from their
       private physician. They may also be asked to sign a release of information form, which will be
       sent to their personal physician requesting a medical report of their treatment.
       3.1.6. Refer to OMS all employees who return to duty from an absence due to emotional or men-
       tal problems.
 4 MARCH 1999                                                                                         3

     3.1.7. Refer all food handlers, barbers, beauticians and child care workers to OMS, building 207,
     for evaluation of any potentially communicable disease.
     3.1.8. Refer pregnant employees, military and civilian, to Public Health, 78th Medical Group/
     SGPM, building 207,as soon as knowledge of the pregnancy is established.
  3.2. OMS (78TH AMDS/SGPFO) will:
     3.2.1. Examine periodically all civilians and military employee’s who are exposed to potentially
     hazardous noise or toxic material. The Aerospace Medicine Council, through the Occupational
     Health Working Group (OHWG) and applicable instructions, will determine the scope and fre-
     quency of the examinations.
     3.2.2. Conduct pre-employment and termination physicals on all employees who are exposed to
     hazardous or potentially hazardous material.
     3.2.3. Examine civilian employees who possess a valid driver’s license, and who regularly oper-
     ate government vehicles when it is determined by the supervisor that an examination is indicated.
     3.2.4. Request a reference audiogram on each employee assigned to a noise hazardous area as
     soon as it is known the employee will be working in that area for more than two weeks.
     3.2.5. Conduct on-site surveys in all hazardous, potentially hazardous, non-hazardous shops. The
     OMS physicians, and (or) nurses will conduct the surveys alone or with other Occupational Health
     flights in the Aerospace Medicine Squadron.
     3.2.6. Provide immunizations to federal civilian employees who, by reason of their occupation or
     job assignments, may be exposed to significant infectious hazards that can be prevented by vac-
     cines.
     3.2.7. During OMS office hours and 78th Medical Group Urgent Care Clinic hours, provide eval-
     uation and treatment of occupational injuries and illnesses to the fullest extent allowed by avail-
     able resources and standards of medical care.

4. OCCUPATIONAL/NON-OCCUPATIONAL ACTIONS:
  4.1. Occupational Illness or Injury:
     4.1.1. Inpatient and outpatient care is provided at government expense through the Federal
     Employees Compensation Act (FECA), as amended, to employees who suffer an injury or illness
     as a direct result of their duties.
     4.1.2. All civilian employees who are ill or injured on the job should be seen at OMS first, unless
     their medical condition warrants otherwise. Conditions such as major burns, amputation of major
     extremities, severe head injuries, etc., will be attended to by ambulance personnel who will trans-
     port the employee to the Houston Medical Center Emergency Room. Requests for emergency
     ambulance service for transportation of ill or injured-on-the-job civilian employees will be made
     by calling 911. Once the patient has been assessed, the employee will be transported to the Hous-
     ton Medical Center Emergency Room or, during OMS office hours, the senior technician will call
     OMS to see if the patient can be cared for at OMS.
     4.1.3. After OMS duty hours, care will be provided by emergency rooms or urgent care centers
     off base. Employees seen off base for an injury must notify OMS the next duty day. If the
4                                                                                        4 MARCH 1999

       employee’s condition is such that they are unable to come in to OMS the next workday, the
       employee, or a designated representative, should call the OMS physician and report the incident.
       The OMS office provides the AFMC Form 12, Record of Injury/Illness and Treatment, for
       injury reporting and appropriate claim forms for the employee to file for benefits under the Federal
       Employee Compensation Act. When an employee elects to use the services of their own physi-
       cian, supervisors must inform the employee that they must obtain authorization (Form CA-16,
       Authorization for Examination and/or Treatment) from OMS before seeking medical treat-
       ment. Except for emergency care, the Agency may not issue authorization retroactively for past
       treatment, and the employee may be required to pay for care that was not authorized.
       4.1.4. Civilian employees seen at OMS may, at the request of the attending medical officer, be
       transferred by ambulance to any hospital within a 30-mile radius (Warner Robins, Perry, Macon,
       Fort Valley, etc.). Under no circumstances will civilian personnel be transported to a personal
       doctor’s office or to the employee’s home.
    4.2. Returning to Limited Duty Following An Occupational Injury or Illness:
       4.2.1. The OMS office will complete a form to the employee’s supervisor stating the employee’s
       physical limitations.
       4.2.2. The immediate supervisor, as well as other levels of supervision in the directorate, staff
       office, or tenant organization where the employee is assigned, will make every effort to assign the
       employee to duties commensurate with their physical limitations. However, if suitable work is not
       available, or becomes unavailable after the employee has been placed on limited duty, the super-
       visor should contact the medical officer in OMS and refer the employee to their applicable servic-
       ing civilian personnel officer before sending them home.
    4.3. Non-occupational Injury or Illness : Treatment for non-occupational injuries or illnesses will
    include giving sufficient first aid to prevent loss of life or limb. After OMS hours employees may call
    911 to be transported by ambulance to the Houston Medical Center Emergency Room; however, the
    employee will be responsible for payment of this service.



                                          KATHERINE E. SCHEIRMAN, Col, USAF, MC, FS
                                          Commander, 78th Medical Group
