BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
OF ROBINS AIR FORCE BASE                                                      21-101

                                                                           14 NOVEMBER 2013

                                                                                     Maintenance

                                                                            PROCESS ORDERS


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: WR-ALC/TD                                                         Certified by: WR-ALC/CC
                                                            (Brigadier General Cedric D. George)
                                                                                       Pages: 21
Supersedes: ROBINSAFBI21-110,
           18 July 2007


This Robins Air Force Base Instruction (RAFBI) implements the process order provisions of Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101_Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) Supplement (SUP) 1,
Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, Chapter 19, Technical Data and Work
Control Document (WCD). It establishes procedures and responsibilities for the preparation,
control, monitoring, distribution, and deletion of AFMC Form 561, Process Order. AFMC Form
561 is used to describe specific applications, procedures, techniques, best shop practices, and
methods which are required to complement approved technical data; establish procedures for
locally designed equipment, fixtures, etc.; establish procedures when commercial off-the-shelf
manuals or any other approved technical data are not available; combine requirements from
multiple technical data sources and establish alternate procedures to prevent production delays.
The intent must not be to develop and use the process order in lieu of official technical data that
is available and can be used. A process order can be used to consolidate multiple technical data
references for specific processes or components as a result of continuous process improvement
efforts. Process orders can be an integral component of "standard work" development to
establish efficient work sequences. This instruction applies to the 78th Air Base Wing (78
ABW), Warner Robins Air Logistics Complex (WR-ALC), Technical Order Distribution Offices
(TODO), Air Force Life Cycle Management Center (AFLCMC) Program Divisions, and 638th
Supply Chain Management Group (638 SCMG). Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may not be supplemented or further
 2                                                                     ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013


implemented/extended. Requests for waivers must be submitted through chain of command to
the OPR listed above for consideration and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW AF Records
Information     Management       System     Records     Disposition   Schedule    located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.




        1.      Background. ...........................................................................................................    2
        2.      Specific Roles And Responsibilities. .....................................................................                 2
        3.      New Process Order. ...............................................................................................         5
Figure 1.       Examples of Distribution Statements .....................................................................                  8
        4.      Process Order Review. ...........................................................................................         10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            14

Attachment 2—PROCESS ORDER (PO) CREATION FLOW CHART                                                                                       16

Attachment 3—PROCESS ORDER REVIEW FLOW CHART                                                                                              17

Attachment 4—PROCESS ORDER CHECKLIST                                                                                                      18


1. Background. Process orders are locally developed technical data as defined in AFI21-101_
AFMCSUP1, Chapter 19. This instruction, in conjunction with AFI21-101_AFMCSUP1,
Chapter 19, defines roles and responsibilities of affected organizations and provides detailed
instructions for the management of the process orders throughout their life cycle.
     1.1. The primary method of communication utilized throughout the process order cycle is
     e-mail. The use of the Common Access Card ensures the digital authentication of each
     applicable correspondent and enables encryption to protect controlled, unclassified
     information within the process order.
2. Specific Roles And Responsibilities. Various organizations are engaged during the
coordination and implementation of process orders. This section provides specific detail of each
major participant’s roles and responsibilities.
     2.1. Initiator. The initiator is the individual recognizing a process, or part of a process,
     which is not specifically covered by authorized technical data and falls within the required
     guidelines of AFI21-101_AFMCSUP1, Chapter 19. Process order initiators may be any
     stakeholders such as process/facility group engineers, production personnel, planners,
     AFLCMC program divisions, 402d Maintenance Support Group (402 MXSG) equipment
     specialists, and 638 SCMG counterparts. The initiator completes part I of Robins Air Force
     Base (RAFB) Form 20, Process Order Request, and forwards it to the appropriate planner
     (for 402 MXSG, planner = 402 MXSG equipment specialist in this document).
ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                             3


  2.2. Planner. The planner is the individual, within maintenance, responsible for determining
  the initial validity of RAFB Form 20. See paragraph 3.2 for details of the planner’s review
  of new process order request. If a planner is the initiator, the planner will complete parts I
  and II of RAFB Form 20 and forward to the group engineer. The planner is a mandatory
  coordinator, by signature, on the AFMC Form 561. Upon notification of a new or revised
  process order, the planner shall ensure the process order number is identified on the required
  WCDs. Upon notification that a process order is rescinded, the planner shall remove the
  process order number from all affected WCDs. Upon notification that coordination of a
  revised process order cannot be completed prior to the next review due date, the planner will
  initiate/coordinate an AFMC Form 202, Nonconforming Technical Assistance Request and
  Reply, to provide temporary technical data while the process order is updated.
     2.2.1. (402 MXSG Only) 402 MXSG equipment specialists, hereafter referred to as the
     periodic maintenance (PM) equipment specialist (ESMXSG). For 402 MXSG process
     order requirements, the PM ESMXSG will assume the roles and responsibilities of the
     “planner,” as stated in this publication; for 402 MXSG, references to a “planner” in this
     publication equate to the PM ESMXSG; references to WCDs in this publication equate to
     402 MXSG work orders.
  2.3. Group Engineering Organization. The group engineering organization, if necessary,
  coordinates with other engineering entities (WR-ALC, AFLCMC program divisions, and 638
  SCMG), and production planning team (PPT) or PM ESMXSG, to lead in the determination
  of a proper resolution for a process order request. See paragraph 3.3 for details of group
  engineering organization new process order request review.
     2.3.1. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR). The OPR is the group engineering
     organization tasked to establish/maintain the process order. The OPR maintains a master
     file of all current process orders approved by the organization. For process orders
     updated without full coordination, the OPR maintains a copy of all previous versions of
     the process order. There is no requirement to maintain a copy of previous versions of
     process orders that have been completely recoordinated or rescinded. For historical
     purposes, the OPR maintains a copy of the completed RAFB Forms 20 for current
     process orders approved by the organization.
     2.3.2. Action Officer (AO). The AO is the group engineer assigned to write, review,
     coordinate, ensure performance of validation/verification (val/ver), and obtain approval
     of AFMC Form 561. See paragraph 3. for details of AFMC Form 561 preparation,
     coordination, val/ver performance, approval, and distribution. The AO accomplishes the
     required reviews of process orders; determines if a process order should be established,
     revised, or rescinded; and notifies the Electronic Technical Order Library (ETOL) point
     of contact (POC), TODO(s), and planner(s) of the outcome of the review. See paragraph
     4. for details of process order review procedures.
  2.4. Engineering Authority. The engineering authority is the organization that is responsible
  for the configuration of the end item. The engineering authority is controlled by the chief
  engineer in a system program office. The engineering authority works jointly with group
  engineering to develop the scope and purpose of the process order; determine the OPR for
  the process order development; and determine if engineering authority coordination is
  required on the process order. If the AFMC Form 561 alters manufacturing or repair
4                                                 ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013


    specifications listed in other technical data or compromises form, fit, or function, or
    operational safety, suitability, and effectiveness of the end item, the proper engineering
    authority is required to coordinate on the process order. This required coordination may
    occur in conjunction with WR-ALC attempts to consolidate a process across product lines, or
    if the process order requires significant amounts of unavailable technical details. The
    engineering authority may restrict/forbid the use of the process order on any or all of the end
    items. As requested, the engineering authority will work jointly with the AO and planner to
    provide an AFMC Form 202 to allow val/ver performance in the production environment, as
    required. 402 MXSG engineering is solely responsible for the end item configuration and
    changes made on the industrial equipment.
    2.5. Production Planning Team (PPT). The PPT’s purpose is to further develop, plan, and
    refine workload requirements as they pertain to WCDs. The team is composed of a planner
    and the production supervisor or designee.               When requested, the production
    controller/scheduler, quality assurance specialist, and appropriate group engineer will attend
    PPT meetings. The PPT is responsible for coordinating with the group engineer or
    engineering authority on the availability and correctness of existing technical data.
       2.5.1. (402 MXSG Only) . The purpose of the PM ESMXSG is to develop, plan, and
       refine PM instructions for equipment and processes supporting production operations in
       WR-ALC. When required, the PM ESMXSG will confer with the scheduler, quality
       assurance specialist, and appropriate group engineer to assess the availability and
       correctness of new/existing operator and maintenance manual data if modifications to
       production equipment and processes being maintained are required.
    2.6. Technical Order Distribution Office (TODO). The office responsible for providing
    process order numbers to the AO and/or OPR and posting the approved process order in the
    applicable technical order (TO) library. The TODO manages process orders applicable to
    areas serviced; maintains a process order control log, manual or electronic (preferred); and
    maintains an inventory list at each file location away from the library. Details of TODO
    responsibilities are located in paragraph 3.9.3 and paragraph 4.5 See paragraph 3.9.5 for
    minimum required entries on the TODO’s process order control log. At the AO’s e-mail
    request, the organization’s TODO assigns a process order number IAW paragraph 3.4
    2.7. Production. Production refers to the affected maintenance unit(s) requiring the process
    order. The production supervisor can initiate a RAFB Form 20. The squadron director or
    affected production supervisor is a mandatory coordinator, by signature, on the AFMC Form
    561. The production mechanic/worker is a mandatory participant/signature in the val/ver of a
    new process order. When required for use by a WCD, the process order may be signed out of
    a TO library or established satellite or sub-library, or it can be printed from ETOL IAW the
    technical data extract policy in AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_WR-ALCSUP, Chapter 19.
    2.8. Quality. The quality office will review and determine quality surveillance requirements,
    such as evaluations on maintenance tasks defined in the process order, if applicable. Quality
    assurance is a mandatory coordinator, by signature, on the AFMC Form 561. The
    appropriate WR-ALC group quality office will coordinate on each process order. By
    coordinating, the quality office is made aware of new technical data (i.e., process order) and
    can determine quality surveillance requirements, if applicable. Quality assurance personnel
    are a mandatory participant/signature in the val/ver of a new process order.
ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                               5


   2.9. Safety. WR-ALC Safety Office (WR-ALC/SE) signed coordination is mandatory on the
   AFMC Form 561. When applicable, WR-ALC/SE will select a functional office (ground,
   flight, or weapon safety) to review and ensure all safety requirements are met. WR-ALC/SE
   personnel are a mandatory participant/signature in the val/ver of a new process order. The 78
   ABW Safety Office (78ABW/SE) will ensure the applicable installation safety functions
   (ground, flight, and weapon) are reviewed from an installation perspective, as required.
   2.10. Bioenvironmental Engineering. The 78th Aerospace Medicine Squadron reviews
   process orders to ensure compliance with applicable occupational health/industrial hygiene
   requirements and coordinates, by signature, on the AFMC Form 561, as required.
   2.11. Environmental Management. The 78th Environmental Management Office (78
   CEG/CEAN) reviews process orders to ensure compliance with applicable environmental
   regulations and coordinates, by signature, on the AFMC Form 561, as required.
   2.12. Fire Department. The 78th Civil Engineering Group POC, within the Fire Emergency
   Services Division, reviews to ensure compliance with applicable fire safety regulations and
   coordinates, by signature, on the AFMC Form 561, as required.
   2.13. Process Order Repository Point of Contact (ETOL POC). The ETOL POC maintains
   the process order repository residing in ETOL. This repository provides a single point of
   access for all process orders used at WR-ALC. The ETOL POC e-mail address is
   wralc.porpoc@robins.af.mil. Upon receipt of an approved/coordinated AFMC Form 561
   from the AO, the ETOL POC will input the process order into the repository and associated
   metadata will be created. Upon receipt of results of a process order review from the AO, the
   ETOL POC will input the revised process order into the repository and update the metadata,
   as necessary. Upon receipt of notification from the AO that a process order has been
   rescinded, the ETOL POC will remove the process order from the repository in ETOL. The
   ETOL POC will notify the AO, via e-mail, upon completion of requested repository actions.
   The Robins Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) system will automatically generate an e-
   mail notification to the AO and owning organization’s workflow, that are identified in PLM
   system metadata, for review request of process orders with impending 2-year review dates or
   process orders that may have been affected by recent changes to referenced TO(s). Upon
   receipt of notification from the review, e-mail recipient, and/or the owning organization
   workflow that the AO/OPR is not current, the ETOL POC will update the process order
   metadata in the repository and resend the review request to the applicable AO/OPR.
   2.14. Approving Authority. The applicable chief of the responsible engineering function,
   WR-ALC technical director, AFLCMC program division chief engineer, 402 MXSG group
   chief engineer, or equivalent approves the AFMC Form 561 by signing block 13, Approval
   Signature. The approving authority ensures the process order complies with all applicable
   regulations and policies including proper AFMC Form 561 format, correct dates, and legible
   names/signatures.
3. New Process Order. This section describes the procedures to be used in development of a
new process order. Attachment 2 depicts the flow process for creation of a new process order.
Specific steps for the creation of a new AFMC Form 561 are listed below:
   3.1. Initial Need Identification. The individual performing, planning, or engineering either a
   repair or manufacturing function identifies that a process order is needed and falls within the
6                                                  ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013


    guidelines of AFI21-101_AFMCSUP1, Chapter 19. Once the need is identified, any
    stakeholder (such as group engineers, production personnel, planners, PM ESMXSG
    equipment specialists, AFLCMC program divisions, or 638 SCMG counterparts) may initiate
    a RAFB Form 20. The initiator completes Part I of the RAFB Form 20 and forwards to the
    appropriate planning office for review/coordination, via e-mail. Any RAFB Form 20 that is
    initiated by an engineer will be forwarded to the appropriate planning office for
    review/coordination, via e-mail.
    3.2. Planner New Process Order Request Review. The planner reviews the request for
    validity. The request will be considered valid if authorized technical data is not available to
    support the maintenance process, no other authorization exists that precludes the need for a
    process order, and existing technical data structure restricts the establishment of identified
    efficient work sequences. If the request is not valid, the planner will annotate reasons for
    disapproval in Part II on RAFB Form 20, and sign and return it, via e-mail, to the initiator. If
    the request is valid, the planner will complete Part II on RAFB Form 20, and sign and
    forward it, via e-mail, to the appropriate group engineering organization for review. If the
    RAFB Form 20 is returned to the planner with valid technical data identified, the planner will
    return it to the initiator, via e-mail, as disapproved. The planner then annotates affected
    WCD(s) (or PM instruction/work order for 402 MXSG) with the authorized technical data, as
    appropriate. If the RAFB Form 20 is returned to the planner with a suggested alternate
    resolution, the planner will coordinate with the appropriate engineering authority to make a
    determination on the suggested resolution.
    3.3. Group Engineering Organization New Process Order Request Review. The group
    engineering organization receives the RAFB Form 20 from the planner. The group
    engineering organization, coordinating with other engineering entities (WR-ALC, AFLCMC
    program divisions, 638 SCMG, etc.) and the PPT or PM ESMXSG, as needed, reviews the
    request to make a determination of a proper resolution. Often the final resolution requires a
    coordinated decision by all involved parties and is not unilaterally made by the group
    engineering organization. However, the group engineering organization is the lead in
    facilitating this coordination/decision-making process and ensuring the correct resolution is
    reached, including selection of the proper engineering OPR/AO. Process order requests that
    are initiated at locations other than WR-ALC will generally have a non-WR-ALC assigned
    OPR.
       3.3.1. Valid Existing Technical Data Determination. If it is determined during the
       review that valid technical data or authorization currently exists that is organized to
       support an efficient maintenance process, the group engineering designee/AO documents
       this information in Part III of the RAFB Form 20 and returns the signed form to the
       planner, via e-mail, with no further action required by the group engineering
       organization.
       3.3.2. Alternate Resolution Determination. If it is determined during the review that an
       Air Force Technical Order (AFTO) Form 22, Technical Manual (TM) Change
       Recommendation and Reply, or an AF Form 3925, Engineering Order (EO), is better
       suited to resolving the request, the group engineering designee/AO documents the
       suggested alternate resolution and the appropriate engineering authority organization in
       Part III of the RAFB Form 20 and forwards the signed form to the appropriate
ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                7


       engineering authority organization and the planner. In this case, the OPR may be a non-
       WR-ALC organization.
       3.3.3. New Process Order Determination. If it is determined during the review that a
       process order is the appropriate resolution, the group engineering organization, in
       coordination with the appropriate engineering authority(s), develops the scope and
       purpose of the process order. The scope should accurately identify applicability of the
       process order. Based on the scope and purpose of the process order, the engineering
       authority will determine if their coordination is required on the process order. Based on
       the scope and purpose of the process order, the group engineering organization,
       coordinating with other engineering entities, will determine the OPR and AO for the
       process order. The group engineering designee documents the resolution in Part III of the
       RAFB Form 20, including scope and requirements of the process order, and forwards the
       signed form to the OPR/AO and planner.
3.4. Process Order Number Structure and Issuance. The organizational TODO will issue the
process order number to the AO, as requested. In order to ensure a Complex-wide standard, all
process order numbers assigned after the publication date of this instruction will conform to the
following format structure: Group - Calendar Year - Julian Date - Daily Sequence Number (e.g.,
001, 002, 003, etc.) Example: CMXG-10-254-001

   3.5. Writing the Draft Process Order. The AO requests a process order number from the
   TODO, via e-mail. The AO will review the required scope and requirements of the process
   order. The scope should accurately identify applicability of the process order. The AO may
   request technical assistance from other organizations to gather any information required to
   ensure all requirements of the process order are identified. Prior to starting the draft, the AO
   will review the Process Order Checklist (Attachment 4) that each coordinating office will use
   during coordination. The upfront use of this checklist, by the AO, will help expedite the
   coordination process by assuring individual requirements are addressed in the first draft.
   Process orders shall be prepared according to direction given in AFI21-101_AFMCSUP1,
   Chapter 19. After the scope and purpose have been determined, the AO will write the
   process order draft.
       3.5.1. AFMC Form 561. AFMC Form 561 is the only authorized form in the
       development of a process order. If a process order exceeds the page capability of the
       AFMC Form 561, an attachment may be used to continue the process order. For process
       orders written after the publication date of this instruction, the top line of each
       continuation page will be annotated with the process order number and the sequential
       page number (e.g., 5 of 20, 6 of 20, 7 of 20, etc.); the second line of each continuation
       page shall be annotated with the process order title, revision, and attachment number, if
       appropriate. This annotation requirement applies to all pages of attachments included as
       part of the process order. Example: AMXG-11-156-002……Page 15 of 20; Special
       Inspection of Magic Widgets REV A……Attachment 1. There shall be no blank
       information lines or blocks on the AFMC Form 561. Any information line or block that
       will not be filled in will be annotated N/A (not applicable) or N/R (not required). Unless
       an actual anticipated rescind date is known, block 9, Date Rescinded, will be annotated
       N/A. The AFMC Form 561 is not automatically rescinded in 2 years. It is reviewed
       every 2 years for continued currency. The use of verbatim technical data information on
 8                                                ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013


        the process order should be held to an absolute minimum. If the process order contains
        verbatim technical data, the technical data number, basic date, change date, and change
        number shall be identified on the first page of the AFMC Form 561 in block 11,
        Instructions, under the heading “Technical Data Reference,” and block 8, Referenced
        Publications, shall state “See technical data reference in block 11.” If AFMC Form 561
        guidance deviates from source technical data, the technical data deviation shall be
        referenced. Example: “1C-5A-3 Figure 2-87 calls for using STM30-101 adhesive for
        bonding the doublers to the wing tip. Use STM30-102 Type I class I (AF163, EA9628,
        or EA9696) in lieu of STM30-101.” Block 6, Date Effective, shall not be completed or
        dated prior to the signing and dating of block 13. The process order shall contain all
        required warnings, cautions, and notes.
           3.5.1.1. Distribution Statement, Export Control Warning, and Destruction Notice.
           The first page of the AFMC Form 561 shall display, in block 11, an applicable
           distribution statement. If the process order is associated to a TO, the process order
           distribution statement will be the same stringency as the TO. If the process order is
           associated to more than one TO, the most stringent TO distribution statement will be
           used on the process order. If the process order is not associated to a TO or other
           document incorporating a distribution statement, the developing engineering
           organization will assign the appropriate distribution statement (refer to AFI 61-204,
           Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, and TO 00-5-1, AF Technical
           Order System, to determine and assign the applicable distribution statement). The
           distribution statement shall be followed by an export control warning and an
           appropriate destruction notice. The date of determination (formatted as DD MMM
           YYYY, e.g. 29 Jul 2010), stated in the distribution statement, will be the initial block
           6 date of the AFMC Form 561. Following process order formalization, the
           determination date shall not be changed unless the distribution statement is changed
           by the AO or OPR. Policy for distribution statements is implemented by AFI61-204.
           Examples of these statements are:
Figure 1. Examples of Distribution Statements

DISTRIBUTION E–Distribution authorized to Department of Defense components only (Direct
Military Support) (12 Aug 17). Refer other requests for this document to WR-ALC/TD, Robins
AFB GA 31098.
WARNING–Export Controlled. This document contains technical data whose export is
restricted by the Arms Export Control Act (Title 22, U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) or the Export
Administration Act of 1979 (Title 50, U.S.C., App. 2401, et seq.), as amended. Violations of
these export control laws are subject to severe criminal penalties. Disseminate IAW provisions
of Department of Defense Directive 5230.25.
DESTRUCTION NOTICE–Destroy by shredding in shredder to prevent disclosure of contents
or reconstruction of the document.

     3.6. Draft Process Order Coordination. Upon development of the draft process order, the
     AO will e-mail the AFMC Form 561 to all required coordinating offices for
     review/comment. The AO will specify a review suspense date and indicate that negative
     replies are required. The five mandatory coordinating offices for WR-ALC process orders
ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                               9


  are production supervision, planning, quality assurance, safety (WR-ALC/SE mandatory;
  78ABW/SE, as required), and the AO. Depending on the subject and scope of the process
  order, Bioenvironmental Engineering, Environmental Management, Fire Department,
  engineering authority, and other organizations may be required to coordinate and sign the
  AFMC Form 561. Review Attachment 4 to determine if Bioenvironmental Engineering,
  Environmental Management, and/or the Fire Department are required to coordinate the
  process order. At no time shall process orders compromise form, fit, or function of an
  aircraft, missile, or commodity without proper formal coordination and approval from the
  cognizant engineering authority. If the AFMC Form 561 alters manufacturing or repair
  specifications in other technical data or potentially compromises form, fit, function, or
  operational safety, suitability, and effectiveness of the end item, the cognizant engineering
  authority is required to coordinate and approve the process order. It is preferred to have the
  process order “overly coordinated” instead of missing critical requirements due to omitting a
  potential coordinating office.
  3.7. Validation/Verification (val/ver) of Draft Process Order. The AO will arrange val/ver
  of the process order in the production environment. If the process order guidance deviates
  from source technical data (Example: “1C-5A-3 Figure 2-87 calls for using STM30-101
  adhesive for bonding the doublers to the wing tip. Use STM30-102 Type I class I (AF163,
  EA9628, or EA9696) in lieu of STM30-101”), the AO will coordinate with the engineering
  authority and planner to provide an AFMC Form 202 for val/ver authorization in the
  production area. The val/ver will be performed by production and requires 100-percent
  hands-on performance of all procedural (operational, maintenance, calibration, equipment
  set-up, etc.) tasks contained within the process order. Mandatory val/ver participants are the
  AO, quality assurance personnel, safety personnel, and the production mechanic/worker.
  The planner is an optional/recommended val/ver participant. The process order val/ver will
  be documented in the coordination section of the AFMC Form 561 with legible signatures,
  which include printed or typed name and office symbol.
  3.8. Final Process Order Coordination/Signature. Once the final process order is written, the
  AO will obtain coordination within 30 calendar days. If all concerns have been resolved, the
  AO will complete and legibly sign block 12, Initiator’s Signature, including printed or typed
  name. The AO will obtain all required coordinating signatures, including a printed or typed
  name and office symbol. All coordinating signees must have the authority to sign for their
  respective offices. Use of initials is not authorized and all signatures shall be legible. After
  all coordinating offices have signed the process order, the AO will obtain the approving
  authority’s legible signature in block 13, including printed or typed name. The approving
  authority ensures the process order complies with all applicable regulations and policies,
  including proper AFMC Form 561 format, correct dates, and legible names/signatures. The
  AO will enter a date effective in block 6 on all pages of the AFMC Form 561. The block 6
  date should be the same as or later than the approval date in block 13.
  3.9. Process Order Distribution and Records Requirements.
     3.9.1. AO and OPR Distribution and Records Requirements. After the process order has
     been signed and the date effective annotated, the AO will distribute the approved process
     order to the ETOL POC and notify applicable TODO(s) and planner(s), via e-mail, for
     processing. The process order may be sent in hard copy or portable document format
     (PDF) file. The OPR maintains a master copy of all current process orders approved by
 10                                              ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013


      the organization. The OPR also maintains a copy of completed RAFB Form 20 for
      historical purposes. When a process order title page is updated IAW AFI21-
      101_AFMCSUP1, Chapter 19, without full coordination, the OPR will maintain a copy
      of the updated process order and all previous versions showing updates to change dates
      and change numbers of referenced technical data listed under technical data reference in
      the process order.
      3.9.2. ETOL POC Distribution and Records Requirements. The ETOL POC will input
      the approved and coordinated AFMC Form 561 into the process order repository and
      create/update the metadata. The ETOL POC will notify the AO, via e-mail, upon
      submission of the process order into the repository.
      3.9.3. TODO Distribution and Records Requirements. Upon receipt of notification of a
      new or revised process order establishment, the TODO shall make the process order
      available to maintenance. The TODO will replace controlled process order copies on file
      with applicable copies and destroy the previous versions accordingly. Upon receipt of
      notification from the AO that a process order has been established or revised, the TODO
      shall update the process order control log and inventory list at each file location.
      3.9.4. Planner Distribution and Records Requirements. The planner, upon receipt of
      notification that a new or revised process order has been established, shall ensure the
      process order number is identified on the required WCD(s) (or PM instruction/work order
      for 402 MXSG).
      3.9.5. Process Order Control Log. The following data elements are minimum entries
      required on the TODO’s process order control log: Title, Process Order Number, Action
      Officer Name/Organization, Date Effective, Last Review Date, Next Review Date, TO
      Number(s) Affected (for 402 MXSG operator and maintenance manuals, if applicable),
      File Location(s), and Number of Copies.
          3.9.5.1. Element Attributes. The TODO’s process order control log element
          attributes are as follows: the Title is the same as block 2, Title, of the AFMC Form
          561; the Process Order Number is the same as block 3 of the AFMC Form 561; the
          Action Officer Name/Organization is the same as block 12 of the AFMC Form
          561(unless notification of an AO change is received); the Date Effective is the block 6
          date of the AFMC Form 561; the Last Review Date is the block 6 date of the AFMC
          Form 561 for new process orders or the “as of” date listed in the AO’s “review
          notification e-mail” for reviewed process orders (this is also the “Last Review Date”
          listed in the ETOL metadata); the Next Review Date is 2 years from the date in block
          6 of the AFMC Form 561 for new process orders or is the “next review date” listed in
          the AO’s “review notification e-mail” (not to exceed 2 years from the last review
          date) for reviewed process orders (this is also the “Next Review Date” listed in the
          ETOL metadata); and TO Number(s) Affected, File Location(s), and Number of
          Copies are self-explanatory.
4. Process Order Review. Process order reviews are accomplished by the AO who signed
block 12 of the AFMC Form 561 or by a designated group engineer in the same organization.
Attachment 4 shows the flow process for process order reviews.
ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                            11


  4.1. Review Requirements. Process order reviews are driven by one of two requirements.
  Each process order shall be reviewed for currency every 2 years or each time a referenced
  TO (for 402 MXSG operator/maintenance manual) is changed. If the review is a standard 2-
  year review, each referenced technical document (e.g., TO, blueprint, operating instruction,
  etc.) must be revalidated to ensure continued currency as it applies to the process order. In
  addition, the distribution statement, export control warning, and destruction notice shall be
  reviewed for currency.
  4.2. AO Notification of Review. The Robins PLM system will automatically generate/send
  a review request notification, via e-mail, to the AO and the owning organization workflow
  that are identified in the repository metadata. The review request notification will be e-
  mailed within 1 day following the loading of a revised TO. The review request notifications
  for scheduled reviews will be e-mailed at intervals of 90, 60, 30, 14, and 7 days prior to the
  scheduled review date. If the notification e-mail recipient is not the current AO, the e-mail
  recipient and/or the owning organization workflow will notify the ETOL POC of the current
  AO/OPR for the process order. The ETOL POC will update the process order metadata in
  the repository and resend the review request to the applicable AO.
     4.2.1. (402 MXSG Only) The PM ESMXSG will notify the AO of a revision to an
     operator/maintenance manual associated to a process order to allow a process order
     review, if required.
  4.3. AO General Review Procedures. The AO will review the process order and supporting
  technical data to ensure it is current and applicable. The AO can request technical assistance
  from all organizations necessary to gather any information required to ensure the process
  order is current and applicable or, if necessary, to rewrite the process order. The AO works
  closely with the PPT during this process.
     4.3.1. Rescind Determination. If the process order is no longer required, the AO will
     coordinate this decision with the PPT/PM ESMXSG and provide e-mail notification to
     the ETOL POC, TODO(s), and planner(s) of the decision to rescind the process order,
     including the reason for the rescission.
     4.3.2. Valid with No Change Determination. If the process order is deemed to still be
     current with no changes required, the AO will notify the ETOL POC, TODO, and the
     planning office, via e-mail, and include the next review date for the process order. The
     next review may not exceed 2 years from the date the process order was last reviewed.
     An example of a notification e-mail is: “Process Order # CMXG-10-254-001, dated 11
     September 2010, titled Special Inspection of Magic Widgets REV A has been reviewed
     IAW AFI21-101_AFMCSUP1, Chapter 19, and is current and applicable as of 7
     September 2012. The next review date is 7 September 2014.”
     4.3.3. Valid with TO Date and Version Change Determination. The AO may update
     process order to reflect the latest technical data version dates and change numbers
     without recoordinating the entire process order if the following conditions are met: the
     process order is deemed to still be current; no process order procedures have been
     affected; and the only change is an update to change dates and numbers of referenced
     technical data listed in the technical data reference section.
12                                             ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013


         4.3.3.1. Upon determination of a TO date and version change, the AO will revise the
         AFMC Form 561 title page by updating version date and change number of the
         referenced technical data; completing block 12, including a legible printed or typed
         name and AO signature; obtaining the approving authority’s signature; and including
         legible printed or typed name in block 13. The AO will update the date effective in
         block 6 on all pages of the AFMC Form 561. The block 6 date should be the same as
         or later than the new approval date in block 13.
         4.3.3.2. The AO will forward, via e-mail, a PDF file version of the revised process
         order to the ETOL POC, and copy the TODO(s) and the planner(s) office. The e-mail
         shall include the next review date for the process order. The next review may not
         exceed 2 years from the date the process order was last reviewed. If associated
         technical data is revised frequently without affecting any process order procedures,
         the next review date may be left as the current review date to preclude the need for
         the TODO to update the inventory list at each file location away from the library, if
         no changes are made to the process order. An example of a notification e-mail is:
         “Process Order # CMXG-10-254-001, dated 11 September 2010, titled Special
         Inspection of Magic Widgets REV A has been reviewed IAW AFI21-
         101_AFMCSUP1, Chapter 19, and is current and applicable as of 7 September 2012.
         However, the process order has been updated to the latest technical data version dates
         and change numbers. The existing process order must be replaced with the attached
         process order. The next review date is 7 September 2014.”
     4.3.4. Valid with Major/Minor Change Determination. If an existing process order
     requires changes beyond updating the technical data reference, the requirements of
     AFI21-101_ AFMCSUP1, Chapter 19, apply. The AO will revert to paragraph 3.5,
     continuing as if it were a new process order. For any new process order requirement that
     is a direct result of a process order review, the existing process order number may be
     retained and submission of a RAFB Form 20 to acquire a new process order number is
     not required. A new process order number is not required for changes, major or minor, to
     existing process orders; however, the AFMC Form 561, block 2, will include the process
     order title followed by “REV” (to indicate process order revision) and a revision letter.
     An example is: “Special Inspection of Magic Widgets REV A.” AFMC Form 561with
     revisions shall have the following statement entered at the top of block 11 on the title
     page “AFMC Form 561 NOTE: process order updated due to a technical data change.”
     If coordination of the revised process order cannot be completed prior to the next review
     due date, the AO will notify the planner of the upcoming process order expiration to
     allow the planner to initiate an AFMC Form 202. The approved AFMC Form 202 will
     supply temporary technical data while the process order is updated.
  4.4. ETOL POC Actions Upon Receiving Results of Process Order Review. The ETOL
  POC will input the reviewed process order into the repository and update the repository
  metadata upon receipt of an approved and coordinated AFMC Form 561 from the AO. Upon
  receipt of notification from the AO that a process order has been rescinded, the ETOL POC
  will remove the process order from the repository. The ETOL POC will notify the AO, via
  e-mail, upon completion of required repository actions.
  4.5. TODO Actions Upon Receiving Notice of Review of Process Order. Upon receipt of
  notification of a revised process order, the TODO will make the process order available to
ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              13


  production within 5 business days. The TODO will replace filed copies of controlled process
  orders with the applicable revised copies and destroy the previous version accordingly. Upon
  receipt of notification that a process order has been rescinded, the TODO will recall and
  destroy all copies of that process order and remove the process order from the applicable
  process order control log as well as from the inventory list at each file location away from the
  library.
  4.6. Planner Actions Upon Receiving Notification of Process Order Being Rescinded. The
  planner, upon receipt of notification that a process order has been rescinded, will remove the
  process order number from all affected WCD(s) (or PM instructions/work orders for 402
  MXSG).




                                            CHRISTOPHER D. HILL, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 14                                            ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 July 2010
AFI21-101_AFMCSUP1, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 April 2012
AFI21-101_AFMCSUP_WR-ALCSUP, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 29
March 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, 30 August 2002
TO 00-5-1, AF Technical Order System, 15 January 2013
Prescribed Forms
RAFB Form 20, Process Order Request
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3925, Engineering Order
AFMC Form 202, Nonconforming Technical Assistance Request and Reply
AFMC Form 561, Process Order
AFTO Form 22, Technical Manual (TM) Change Recommendation and Reply

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFLCMC—Air Force Life Cycle Management Center
AFMAN —Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFTO—Air Force Technical Order
AO—Action Officer, assigned engineer
EM—Environmental Management
EO—Engineering Order
ESMXSG—Equipment Specialist Maintenance Support Group
ETOL—Electronic Technical Order Library
FD—Fire Department
ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                          15


FS—Fire Safety
GS—Ground Safety
IAP—Initial Accumulation Point
IAW—In Accordance With
N/A—Not Applicable
N/R—Not Required
OH—Bioenvironmental Engineering
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
PDF—Portable Document Format
PLM—Product Lifecycle Management
PM—Periodic Maintenance
PO—Process Order
POC—Point Of Contact
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
PPT—Production Planning Team
RAFB—Robins Air Force Base
RAFBI—Robins Air Force Base Instruction
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SUP—Supplement
TM—Technical Manual
TO—Technical Order
TODO—Technical Order Distribution Office
val/ver——validation/verification
WCD—Work Control Document (for MXSG -- ‘work order’)
WR—ALC —Warner Robins Air Logistics Complex
WS—Weapon Safety

Terms
Metadata—Entries showing descriptive and management data for saved files
 16                                        ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013


                                    Attachment 2
                PROCESS ORDER (PO) CREATION FLOW CHART

Figure A2.1. Process Order (PO) Creation Flow Chart
ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013                     17


                                   Attachment 3
                    PROCESS ORDER REVIEW FLOW CHART

Figure A3.1. Process Order Review Flow Chart
 18                                                ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013


                                          Attachment 4
                               PROCESS ORDER CHECKLIST

Figure A4.1. Process Order Checklist
Note: In order to assist the process order AO in determining which coordinating office should
be consulted, the following abbreviations are notated at the end of each checklist question.

Flight Safety (FS)
Ground Safety (GS)
Weapon Safety (WS)
Environmental Management (EM)
Bioenvironmental Engineering (OH)
Fire Department (FD)

A4.1. Is the requested process for an aircraft functional test area? (FS)

A4.2. Will the new process degrade any warning, egress, or life support system? (FS)

A4.3. Will the new process change the operating limits, tolerances, or performance of the
weapon system/shop equipment configuration? (FS) (WS) (GS)

A4.4. Will the new process change maintenance or aircrew procedures? (FS)

A4.5. Will the new process change the configuration of the aircraft? (FS)

A4.6. Was the request for the process order generated by degradation in material, system, etc.,
that could be indicative of a fleet or production equipment line problem? (FS) (GS)

A4.7. Will the new process result in a “repair” that cannot be verified on the ground? (FS)

A4.8. Will the new process require that time change items be waived? (FS)

A4.9. Will the new process increase the potential for electrical hazards/arcing or overload
protection? (FS)

A4.10. Will the new process involve electrical installation/removal that could expose personnel
to an electrical hazard? (FS)

A4.11. Will the new process result in a temporary repair of panel damage/delaminations? (FS)

A4.12. Is the new process generated by discrepancies involving auto flight controls or stability
augmentation systems? (FS)

A4.13. Is the new process generated as the result of inspections or time compliance TO being
waived or extended? (FS)
ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                 19


A4.14. Will the new process require in-flight engineering analysis or data collection? (FS)

A4.15. Does the new process require the use of any material handling equipment (mobile crane,
tug, maintenance stand, or equipment dolly) that is not covered by a TO? (GS)

A4.16. Does the new process affect existing equipment warnings or cautions? (GS) (OH)

A4.17. Does the new process require the use of an aerial lift (stick boom, scissors lift, etc.) not
normally used? (GS)

A4.18. Does the new process require that a component be removed without written procedures?
(GS)

A4.19. Does the new process require a worker to be exposed to a potential fall hazard? (GS)

A4.20. Does the new process require warnings for use of power tools and personal protective
equipment (PPE) not covered by an existing, referenced TO? (GS) (OH)

A4.21. Does the new process require lock-out/tag-out procedures not covered by an existing,
referenced TO? (GS)

A4.22. Does the new process require work to be done near or on installed explosive devices
(liquid propellants, pyrotechnics, ejection/egress systems, flares, detonators, etc.)? (WS)

A4.23. Does the new process require the removal of unserviceable explosive components? (WS)

A4.24. Does the new process require the removal of guns or gun systems? (WS)

A4.25. Does the new process require aircraft to be armed or de-armed including chaff, flares,
etc.? (WS)

A4.26. Does the new process require a worker to enter a confined space? (GS) (OH)

A4.27. Does the new process require a task to be performed not previously approved for a
confined space? (GS) (OH)

A4.28. Does the process order contain the necessary cautions, warnings, and notes? (GS) (OH)

A4.29. Does the process order list all applicable health and safety controls (engineering,
administrative, and PPE)? (GS) (OH)

A4.30. Will the new process require the use of any chemical not previously approved for use in
the area? (GS) (EM) (OH)

A4.31. Will the new process result in any changes to the type or volume of materials issued to
personnel and/or used within a single hazardous material management system zone? This
 20                                                ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013


includes the introduction of new chemicals, elimination of chemicals, etc. (GS) (EM) (OH)

A4.32. Will the new process result in any change to the issuing procedure for
chemicals/materials containing hazardous materials? (EM) (OH)

A4.33. Will the new process result in any change in the volume of chemicals/materials stored at
either the site or in the pharmacy? (EM) (OH)

A4.34. Will the new process cause any change(s) to the waste profiles for wastes stored at any
initial accumulation point(s) (IAP) or 90-day hazardous waste storage area? (EM)

A4.35. Will the new process cause any change(s) to the location or number of IAPs for
hazardous waste? (EM)

A4.36. Will the new process cause any change(s) to the volume of waste(s) that require disposal
(e.g., wastewater to treatment, volume of HAZWASTE or solid waste, etc.) or to the volume of
material that will be recycled or reused? (EM)

A4.37. Will the new process require any new equipment, modifications to existing equipment,
or movements of existing equipment (e.g., rinse equipment, cleaning tanks, heating ovens,
energy sources, etc.) that have the potential to change any of the following:

A4.37.1. Emissions to air or discharges to water (GS) (EM) (OH)

A4.37.2. Noise exposure to workers (GS) (OH)

A4.37.3. Radiation exposure to workers (GS) (OH)

A4.37.4. Laser exposure to workers (WS) (OH)

A4.37.5. Thermal stress for workers (GS) (OH)

A4.37.6. Ergonomic stress for workers (GS) (OH)

A4.38. Does the new process require any changes to the facility (e.g., vents, stacks, floor drains,
oil/water separators, etc.)? (GS) (EM) (OH) (FD)

A4.39. Does the new process have the potential to block egress routes or access to safety
features, such as eye wash stations, fire extinguishers/alarms, etc.? (FD) (OH) (GS)

A4.40. Does the new process require any changes to the location(s) of the current flammable
storage lockers/areas or increase to the volume of flammable materials currently stored? (FD)
(OH) (GS)

A4.41. Does the new process create any new process-generated hazards such as welding,
sanding, or grinding? (OH) (GS)
ROBINSAFBI21-101 14 NOVEMBER 2013   21
