BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 RAFB INSTRUCTION 16-201
WARNER ROBINS AIR LOGISTICS CENTER                                                       6 AUGUST 1997

                                                                                       Operation Support

                                                            FOREIGN DISCLOSURE VISITS AND
                                                      DISCLOSURE OF MILITARY INFORMATION




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the Robins Home Page at: http://www.robins.af.mil/
imweb/IMP.htm. Customers with no access to electronic media should contact 78 CS/SCSP ext 62401 for
assistance in obtaining a printed copy.

OPR: WR-ALC/FMPD (Carl Sheppard)                                             Certified by: WR-ALC/FM
                                                                                (Mr. James B. Culpepper)
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This publication aligns with AFPD 16-2, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and
International Organizations. It outlines the policies, responsibilities, procedures, and the disclosure of
military information and material incidental to visits by foreign nationals, contractors, and governments.
It implements AFI 16-201(C). This instruction applies to all activities on Robins Air Force Base (AFB),
except Headquarters Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), and Air National Guard (ANG) units or
members.



1. GENERAL:
   1.1. Foreign Disclosure Office/Officer (FDO). The FDO for Warner Robins Air Logistics Center
   (WR-ALC) is in the Plans and Programs Division (WR-ALC/FMPD), extension 63991. The FDO
   acts as the focal point for visits of foreign nationals and representatives. The FDO is also the sole
   authority for approving or disapproving release of information (oral, visual, and documentary) or
   material to foreign governments, representatives, and contractors, or forwarding such requests to
   higher headquarters for release determination. Tenant organizations receive support, in this respect,
   primarily from their parent organizations.

2. TERMS EXPLAINED:
   2.1. Documentary Disclosure: The physical release of classified and unclassified military informa-
   tion (document, film, tape, card deck, drawing, chart, notes, software, etc.) to an authorized represen-
   tative, either on loan or for permanent retention. (NOTE: This definition excludes information
   authorized for public release by WR-ALC/PA.)
2                                                                                         6 AUGUST 1997

    2.2. Foreign Disclosure. The approved transfer of classified and unclassified information through
    approved channels to an authorized representative of a foreign government or international organiza-
    tion. Accomplish disclosure by releasing documentary information, allowing access to material or
    equipment, by releasing material or equipment, or by granting access to information on an oral or
    visual basis.
    2.3. International Military Student (IMS). A national of a foreign government with official mili-
    tary or civilian status in that government. The trainee is pursuing training or visiting United States
    (US) activities under the sponsorship of International Military Education and Training (IMET), For-
    eign Military Sales (FMS), or other US Government agencies.
    2.4. International Liaison Officer (ILO). The ILO is in the FDO office, extension 62091. The ILO
    acts as the assistant to the FDO for visits of foreign nationals.
    2.5. The International Military Student Officer (IMSO). The IMSO is located in the 78MSS/
    DPEO-T office. The IMSO acts as the focal point for all foreign trainees and coordinates visits with
    the FDO.
    2.6. Foreign Representative. Anyone (including US citizens) acting as an agent, representative,
    official, or employee of a foreign government, firm, corporation, or person. Consider the disclosure
    of US military information to a foreign representative as disclosure to the foreign nation he or she rep-
    resents: consequently, it requires specific authorization under the provisions of AFI 16-201(C).
    2.7. Invitational Travel Order (ITO). A special order used as the administrative instrument for
    announcing and authorizing actions that pertain to foreign students/trainees.
    2.8. FDO. The office/position assigned overall responsibility at this ALC. The FDO implements
    Department of Defense (DOD), Air Force, and Air Force Material Command (AFMC) foreign disclo-
    sure policies and procedures and arranges for the authorized release of military information to foreign
    governments and foreign nationals (also known as Designated Disclosure Authority).
    2.9. Social Visitor. A foreign national visiting the base by formal invitation to attend activities which
    are open to the general public (open houses, community relations tours, museums, etc.) or functions of
    a strictly social nature.
    2.10. Transient. A foreign national onboard an aircraft which lands to refuel, pick up material,
    remain overnight, etc.
    2.11. Visit Authorization (VA ). Three types of visit authorizations may be issued: Short-term visit
    authorization, recurring visit authorization, and extended visit authorization (EVA). A short-term
    visit authorization covers a single visit to an installation for a single, specific purpose. A recurring
    visit authorization permits intermittent visits over a period of up to one year for purposes related to a
    specific issue or program. An EVA is granted for individuals assigned on station as official represen-
    tatives of foreign governments.
    2.12. Restricted Country. These include former and current communist countries. Contact the
    Office of Special Investigation (AFOSI Det105) for additional information.

3. POLICY:
    3.1. Foreign nationals or representatives of foreign entities are not granted access to Robins AFB
    without FDO approval. This policy applies to all visitors except the following:
 6 AUGUST 1997                                                                                            3

     3.1.1. Requests from foreign nationals (excluding citizens of restricted countries) for unclassified
     base tours are approved locally according to current Secretary of the Air Force Director of Public
     Affairs (SAF/PA) directives. These tours are restricted to areas/information available to the gen-
     eral public. This type request does not require prior approval.
  3.2. Canadian government officials and certified Canadian contractors may initiate unclassified visits
  to US military facilities with that facility’s security office. These directly arranged visits may be for
  the purpose of:
     3.2.1. Collecting or discussing unclassified solicitations.
     3.2.2. Participating in procurement activities related to unclassified solicitations (e.g., pre-solici-
     tation conferences).
  3.3. On occasion, US Air Force commanders may desire to invite a foreign national representative to
  visit their activities. Invitations for visits which may involve disclosure of US Air Force classified or
  unclassified information may not be issued without first obtaining the approval of SAF/IAD through
  the local FDO.
  3.4. Upon receipt of a proposed visit by any citizen of a restricted country, or prior to extending an
  invitation to such, obtain approval from HQ-AFMC/CC, through local FDO channels, before agreeing
  to such a visit. Coordinate requests for approval with the WR-ALC Commander (WR-ALC/CC) and
  AFOSI Det 105. Inform WR-ALC/CC and AFOSI Det 105 of all such visits when provided visit
  approval concurrent with notification of visit. Also, notify AFOSI Det 105 at the earliest time of any
  proposed visit by a representative or citizen of a restricted country.

4. RESPONSIBILITIES:
  4.1. The FDO is the focal point for implementing and interpreting criteria governing the disclosure of
  military information to foreign representatives and foreign nationals. The FDO will provide policy
  guidance and establish conditions under which disclosures may be made. Procedures established at
  this time for this purpose include making sure that:
     4.1.1. The organization visited can accomplish under their mission the purpose of the visit, as
     defined in the visit authorization.
     4.1.2. All organizations supported by the FDO are knowledgeable of policies and procedures for
     disclosure of military information to foreign nationals.
     4.1.3. When the disclosure of classified information is authorized, advise the visitor (before dis-
     closure) of his continuing responsibility to safeguard the disclosed information.
     4.1.4. The FDO advises SAF/IAD when the terms, limitations, and conditions of disclosure
     imposed in a visit authorization are so restrictive the organization to be visited cannot accomplish
     the purpose of the visit without embarrassment to the Air Force.
     4.1.5. Primarily, the parent command supports the tenant organizations requiring FDO functions.
     However, upon request, the FDO will provide limited support.
     4.1.6. The Pass and Registration Section (78 SFS/SPAP) will provide required identification
     credentials for foreign national visitors.
4                                                                                        6 AUGUST 1997

       4.1.7. The functional area office of primary responsibility (OPR) will provide administrative/per-
       sonnel support to foreign nationals other than those in a training status. The Commander’s Action
       Group (WR-ALC/CCX) will provide assistance to functional OPRs as required to support distin-
       guished visitors (DV) or visitors afforded DV status. The OPR will coordinate with WR-ALC/
       CCX through the FDO.
       4.1.8. The IMSO will provide administrative/personnel support for military trainees (see AFI
       16-103).
       4.1.9. The Base Operations and Training Division (78 OSS/OSAB) will provide routine support
       assistance to transient foreign aircraft landings at Robins AFB. When 78 OSS/|OSAB is advised
       of a 0-7 General equivalent or higher grade individual onboard, they will notify WR-ALC/CCX,
       extension 62761 in order that proper protocol will be observed.

5. PROCEDURES:
    5.1. Designation of foreign Disclosure Contact Points. Activities identified in attachment 1 to this
    regulation will designate a primary and alternate to serve as point of contact by the FDO on foreign
    matters pertaining to their organization. Furnish the telephone extensions, and functional address
    symbols (FAS) to the FDO.
    NOTE: Activities not identified in attachment 1 will provide contact points on an as-needed basis.

    5.2. Visits by foreign representatives and foreign nationals for official business purposes:
       5.2.1. FDO is the approval authority for all visits to Robins AFB by military and civilian person-
       nel of foreign governments and foreign contractor representatives. (See 1.3.1. for exceptions.)
       5.2.2. The routing of requests for visits is from the country’s respective foreign embassy in Wash-
       ington DC to FDO.
       5.2.3. The visit request should fully identify the visitor including the following:
           5.2.3.1. Name.
           5.2.3.2. Rank or position.
           5.2.3.3. Organization represented.
           5.2.3.4. Citizenship.
           5.2.3.5. Identification of passport number.
           5.2.3.6. Date and duration of proposed visit.
           5.2.3.7. Purpose of visit, including identification of associated programs.
           5.2.3.8. Point of contact for visit.
    5.3. Submit visit requests at least 30 days before the start of the visit. Requests should include indi-
    vidual security clearances and disclosure assurances.
    5.4. Occasionally, SAF/IAD may approve a visit which will take place before there is sufficient time
    for the visit notification to be processed. In such cases, SAF/IAD may furnish visit approval by mes-
    sage or telephone followed by written confirmation.
6 AUGUST 1997                                                                                            5

 5.5. The FDO receives and distributes requests for visits through the Foreign Disclosure and Techni-
 cal Information System (FORDTIS). The FDO will determine both the primary and collateral offices
 of responsibility (OPR/OCR) and send copies of formal notification (or provide verbal notification
 when applicable) as follows:
    5.5.1. Functional OPR (visit contact point). Functional OCR (visit contact point when
    multi-agencies are involved).
    5.5.2. AFOSI Det 105 (when contact must be reported according to AFI 71-101V1).
 5.6. When visits to WR-ALC activities have multiple directorate involvement, the foreign disclosure
 officer will determine the majority participant based on the visit purpose. The majority participant
 will then be assigned to serve as the functional OPR for the visit. EXCEPTION: If a visit has been
 previously coordinated with or was initiated by a directorate or staff office, that activity will serve as
 functional OPR.
 5.7. The FDO will forward visit requests pertaining to organizations other then WR-ALC to the orga-
 nization concerned for appropriate action.
 5.8. Functional OPRs:
    5.8.1. Appoint a project officer and alternate upon notification of an impending visit by foreign
    representatives and furnish the names, FASs, and telephone extensions to the FDO.
    5.8.2. Prepare visit plans as necessary to ensure the project officer provides visitors with the
    required data (within the scope and limitations of disclosure authorized) and professional, courte-
    ous treatment.
    5.8.3. Furnish OCRs the names of the project officer and alternate, including FASs and telephone
    extensions, and a copy of the visit plan. Provide information at least five days in advance of
    scheduled arrival of foreign visitors.
 5.9. International Military Students (IMSs):
    5.9.1. The base IMSO will serve as OPR for IMSs. Functional activities providing training will
    serve as OCRs.
    5.9.2. The base IMSO will maintain copies of ITOs and amendments or endorsements thereto for
    foreign students training.
    5.9.3. The base IMSO will advise functional OPRs on disclosure of classified/unclassified infor-
    mation/course material to IMSs.
 5.10. Requests from Foreign Nationals for Base Tours:
    5.10.1. The Office of public affairs (WR-ALC/PA), extension 62137, is the OPR for all base
    tours.
    5.10.2. Organizations may provide standard unclassified base tours for foreign nationals repre-
    senting any country excluding restricted nations without SAF/IAD approval.
    5.10.3. Notify the FDO if you need assistance or disclosure guidance of base tours which include
    foreign nationals. (Verbal notification will suffice.)
    5.10.4. In the event of unusual or questionable circumstances, request case-by-case approval in
    writing, through FDO channels to SAF/IAD and community Relations Division (SAF/PAC).
6                                                                                         6 AUGUST 1997

    5.11. Out Of Channel Requests:
       5.11.1. All base activities that receive a request from foreign nationals or representatives for base
       access for business purposes will contact the FDO.
       5.11.2. The FDO will review the request to determine if a current visit authorization covers the
       foreign nationals requesting access and the nature of the visit. If visit authorization covers foreign
       nationals, process request according to paragraph 5.2.
       5.11.3. Handle requests not covered by a current visit authorization as out-of-channel requests.
       The FDO will assist in placing out of channel requests into proper channels.
    5.12. Proposed Visits by Foreign Nationals:
       5.12.1. Functional OPRs will coordinate on proposed foreign national visits as necessary accord-
       ing to requests from the FDO. Review for coordination for the following:
           5.12.1.1. WR-ALC capability to provide the requested support. Negative responses should
           include rationale and alternatives.
           5.12.1.2. Identify expendable funds and their amount if applicable. If you use industrial
           funds, compute and include in their coordination.
    5.13. Foreign Aircraft Landings:
       5.13.1. Foreign aircraft landing authorization numbers (ALAN) area sent from SAF/IAD to 78
       OSS/OSAB and FDO. Landings are normally for the purpose of aircraft servicing/refueling,
       remaining overnight, etc.
       5.13.2. Unless specifically authorized, do not grant personnel onboard aircraft access to classified
       military information.
       5.13.3. The 78 OSS/OSAB will brief aircraft crew members and passengers as required, to
       familiarize them with base requirements and restrictions to preclude disclosure incident.
       5.13.4. The 78SFS/SPAP will issue temporary base passes to aircraft crew members and (or) pas-
       sengers when notified of the need by 78 OSS/OSAB.
       5.13.5. The 78 OSS/OSAB will furnish transportation to and from onbase messing and (or) quar-
       ters for aircraft crew members.
       5.13.6. Coordination with the FDO is not required unless the visit will result in foreign disclosure,
       or unless unusual circumstances prevail.



                                          James B. Culpepper
                                          Director, Comptroller Directorate
