BY ORDER OF THE                                                     SCOTT AFB INSTRUCTION 65-202
INSTALLATION COMMANDER                                                                 28 JANUARY 2000

                                                                                  Financial Management

                                                        SCOTT AFB/MIDAMERICA AIRPORT JOINT
                                                                         USE COSTING DATA



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 375 AW/FMA (Ms. Aweidah)                             Certified by: 375 AW/CVJ (Lt Col McKenzie)
                                                                                            Pages: 16
                                                                                       Distribution: F

This instruction prescribes procedures for cost data collection and reporting requirements to support the
HQ USAF SAF/GCN and HQ AMC tasking to the 375th Airlift Wing to begin collecting and reporting
costs for the maintenance and operation of the Scott AFB Airfield. This data may be required for negoti-
ations with St. Clair County regarding the military use of MidAmerica’s Airport runway.



1. Background. Per SAF/MII Letter, Scott Joint Use Agreement, 1 Mar 98 and HQ AMC/XPPI Letter,
Trip Report, 22 Jan 98, the military may use any airfield that was federally funded. However, US law
states that the military may reimburse the airfield operator for use of the airfield based on the proportion
of military use. (Title 49, U.S.C. § 47101 et seq., allows the Federal government to make financial contri-
butions to the upkeep of commercial airport facilities, if government use of the facility is “substantial.”)
Therefore, even with a provision for no landing fees contained in the proposed new Joint Use Agreement
(Atch 1) that may in the future be executed between the United States Air Force (USAF) and St. Clair
County, the Air Force may have a bill to pay for using MidAmerica’s Airport runway according to SAF/
GCN, Mrs. Loeb. Based upon SAF/GCN and HQ AMC/FMBO directions, this instruction identifies the
Scott AFB offices of primary responsibility (OPR) for the purposes of collecting and maintaining the cost
data, as well as the agreed upon procedures to be used in collecting and reporting the cost data.

2. Cost Sharing:
   2.1. Based upon SAF/GCN and HQ AMC/FMBO direction, in the future Scott AFB may be required
   to share the costs of maintaining and repairing the “airport flying facilities” if military use is deemed
   “substantial” as that term may be defined in the proposed Joint Use Agreement between the USAF
   and St. Clair County, Illinois.
   2.2. Attachment 2, “ Table of Allowable Cost Items,” lists those categories of cost items for which
   maintenance and repair costs will be collected and reported, in accordance with SAF/GCN and HQ
   AMC/FMBO directions.
2                                                                      SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000

    2.3. Scott AFB units (i.e., 375 AW, 126 ARW, and 932 AW) and St. Clair County may share respon-
    sibility for those categories of cost items identified in the “Table of Allowable Cost Items” in direct
    proportion to the amount of operations attributable to each of the parties.

3. Duties. The 375 AW/CC or his designated representatives will chair a financial responsibility over-
sight board, consisting of a representative from the 375th Operations Group, 375th Communications
Group, 375th Logistics Group, 375th Support Group, one representative from the 375th Comptroller
Squadron, 932d Airlift Wing, and the 126th Air Refueling Wing. The board shall meet quarterly to ensure
the integrity, accuracy, and equity of the cost data collection process. At the fourth meeting and every
quarterly meeting thereafter, the group shall review the necessity for convening the board. If the board
chairman is convinced that quarterly meetings are no longer necessary, the board shall meet on an annual
basis. The following identifies Scott AFB OPRs for the purposes of collecting and maintaining the cost
data, as well as the agreed-upon procedures to be used in reporting the cost data:
    3.1. The 375th Civil Engineer Squadron (375 CES), 375th Communications Squadron (375 CS), and
    the 375th Operations Support Squadron (375 OSS) will designate, in writing, the name and duty
    phone of their designated oversight board representative to the 375th Comptroller Squadron, Financial
    Management Analysis Office (375 AW/FMA).
    3.2. The designated OPRs identified above will be responsible for attending the quarterly board meet-
    ings to track and provide all cost data to 375 AW/FMA on a quarterly basis, within 10 working days
    of the end of each quarter of a fiscal or calendar year, as the case may be. The 375 AW/FMA will
    maintain the cost data for historical purposes for a period of 10 years.

4. Responsibilities:
    4.1. The 375 CES OPR will be responsible for attending the Quarterly Oversight Board meetings.
    4.2. The 375 CES OPR will be responsible for tracking and providing the costs associated with the
    following items:
       4.2.1. Pavement maintenance (except for capital improvements).
       4.2.2. Grass cutting/tree trimming.
       4.2.3. Erosion control.
       4.2.4. Storm drainage.
       4.2.5. Surveying.
       4.2.6. Snowplowing and removal.
       4.2.7. Airfield lighting (materials, maintenance, and labor).
       4.2.8. Electrical repairs.
       4.2.9. Plumbing repairs.
       4.2.10. Utilities.
       4.2.11. Entomology (pest control and birds of prey).
       4.2.12. Airfield striping (Air Force requirements).
       4.2.13. Airfield sweeping (Air Force criteria).
SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000                                                                        3

     4.2.14. Control Tower (materials, maintenance, and labor).
  4.3. The 375 CS OPR will be responsible for attending the Quarterly Oversight Board meetings.
  4.4. The 375 CS OPR will be responsible for tracking and providing the costs associated with
  USAF-provided services or support on the following items, only in the event if the Federal Aviation
  Administration will not support maintenance for the assigned assets:
     4.4.1. NAVAIDS (materials, maintenance, and labor).
     4.4.2. Weather facilities (materials, maintenance, and labor).
  4.5. The 375 OSS OPR will be responsible for attending the Quarterly Oversight Board meetings.
  4.6. The 375 OSS OPR will be responsible for tracking and providing the costs associated with the
  following items:
     4.6.1. Control tower (traffic count).
     4.6.2. Report the total number of flying operations conducted on Scott AFB/MidAmerica Airport.
     Operations will be delineated by number of civilian and military operations on each runway--this
     is to establish the military percentage of total use.
  4.7. The 375 AW/FMA will be responsible for attending the Quarterly Oversight Board meetings.
  4.8. The 375 AW/FMA will integrate these reports into a master cost data report within 1 month of
  receiving the individual reports.



                                       BRADLEY S. BAKER, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander
4                                                                    SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000

                                              Attachment 1

                                 DRAFT JOINT USE AGREEMENT
DRAFT - JOINT USE AGREEMENT
       BETWEEN
       ST. CLAIR COUNTY, ILLINOIS
       AND
       THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
       AS OF 22 NOVEMBER 1999
   This Joint Use Agreement (“Agreement”) is made and entered into this ___ day of ________ 1999, by
and between the Secretary of the Air Force, for and on behalf of the United States of America (hereafter
“the Air Force”), and St Clair County, Illinois (hereafter “the County”), a public body eligible to serve as
the sponsor of a public airport. Use of the term “the parties” herein shall be in reference to the Air Force
and the County.

Section A1A—Recitals

A1.1. The Air Force owns and operates a runway and associated flight facilities (collectively "SAFB Fly-
ing Facilities") located on Scott AFB, Illinois (“SAFB”). The County owns and operates a runway and
associated flight facilities (collectively “County Flying Facilities”) located on MidAmerica Airport.

A1.2. The parties entered into a Joint Use Agreement dated September 17, 1991, and Amendment No. 1
dated December 2, 1993. The parties intend that this agreement will supplement the 1991 and 1993 agree-
ments as noted hereinafter.

A1.3. Due to the close proximity of the parties’ runways, and financial, airspace, and environmental con-
siderations, the parties desire to operationally combine the runways and taxiways to operate as a single
airport entity (“Scott AFB/MidAmerica Airport).

A1.4. To ensure ready access to respective support facilities and to avoid unnecessary expenditure of Air
Force or County resources, the parties anticipate that SAFB runway will generally serve as the primary
runway for military arrival/departure operations, and MidAmerica Airport runway(s) will generally serve
as the primary runway(s) for civil aircraft arrival/departure operations.

A1.5. The parties are agreeable to unlimited, joint use of Scott AFB/MidAmerica Airport and intend to
implement a cost-sharing agreement for maintenance and repair costs of flying facilities as provided
herein.

A1.6. As of the date of this agreement, the real property and other facilities needed to support civil avia-
tion operations are either already available to, or will be diligently pursued by, the County.

                                             AGREEMENT
SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000                                                                                  5

Section A1B—– Aircraft Operations

A1.7. For purposes of this Agreement, the “Jointly-Used Flying Facilities” are: all runways, taxiways,
lighting systems, navigational aids, markings, and appurtenances located within an area consisting of 600
feet from either side of the runway centerlines, 1,000 feet from the ends of the runways, and 110 feet from
either side of the crossover taxiway centerline (See Attached Map). The term “Jointly-Used Flying Facil-
ities” also includes the newly constructed control tower, located on the connecting crossover taxiway. All
other areas shall not be considered Jointly Used Flying Facilities for purposes of this agreement. Areas
not covered by this agreement include, but are not limited to terminal buildings, hangars, parking aprons
and ramps.

A1.8. Management of the Jointly-Used Flying Facilities shall be governed by a Joint Airport Operations
Board chaired biannually and on a rotating basis by the Scott AFB Installation Commander or Vice Com-
mander and by the MidAmerica Airport Director.

A1.9. A Joint Flight Procedures Manual, entered into by the Scott AFB Installation Commander and
MidAmerica Airport Director and based upon applicable Air Force Instructions and Federal Air Orders/
Regulations, shall detail operational procedures for the Jointly-Used Flying Facilities provided; however,
if there is a conflict between the Flight Procedures Manual and this agreement, then the Joint Flight Pro-
cedures Manual shall control.

A1.10. All ground and air movements under this agreement will be controlled by Scott AFB/MidAmer-
ica Tower, in accordance with applicable USAF and Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) orders and
regulations. The Air Force and the County understand that the FAA may assume operational responsibil-
ities for the Air Traffic Control tower as soon as warranted by air traffic thresholds, and/or, other criteria
specified in applicable FAA Orders. In consultation with St. Clair County, the Air Force will negotiate a
transfer with the FAA, as appropriate. The Air Force commitment to provide Air Traffic Control and other
airfield management services shall continue only so long as required to accomplish the military mission
as determined by the Air Force.

A1.11. If either runway is closed for any reason, military operations will, upon request, maintain opera-
tional priority over civil aircraft operations. To the extent practicable, the Air Force will make reasonable
efforts to limit the amount and duration of said requests.

A1.12. The parties authorize military and civil two-way radio equipped aircraft use of the Joint Flying
Facilities, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement. Air carrier and commuter aircraft
shall meet all Federal noise standards, except as approved by the FAA.

A1.13. Civil aircraft may not use the SAFB Flying Facilities for pilot training. Commercial aircraft pro-
ficiency or certification flying for the County’s tenants and customers will not be prohibited, unless said
activities interfere with operational priorities, as determined in the sole discretion of control tower person-
nel.

Section A1C—Maintenance and Repairs
6                                                                    SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000

A1.14. The Air Force will maintain and repair the Scott AFB Flying Facilities, in accordance with appli-
cable Air Force and FAA standards. The County will maintain and repair the County Flying Facilities, in
accordance with applicable FAA standards. Said maintenance and repair, whether by the Air Force or the
County, shall include the following:
    A1.14.1. Furnishing all personnel, materials and equipment for the rendering of services under the
    agreement.
    A1.14.2. Performing any and all maintenance and repairs to facilities, including but not limited to:
       A1.14.2.1. Joint sealing, crack repair, surface repairs, provision, repair and replacement of air-
       field markings, and repair or replacement of damaged sections of airfield pavement.
       A1.14.2.2. Maintenance and repair of runway, taxiway, and approach lighting and associated reg-
       ulators and controls.
       A1.14.2.3. Maintenance and repair of beacons, obstruction lights, wind indicators, and other nav-
       igational aids.
       A1.14.2.4. Grass cutting and grounds care, drainage, and dust and erosion control of unpaved
       areas, adjacent to runways and taxiways.
       A1.14.2.5. Sweeping runways and taxiways.
       A1.14.2.6. Controlling insects and pests.
       A1.14.2.7. Snow removal as provided in a Joint Snow Removal Agreement, to be negotiated and
       entered into between the Scott Air Force Base Installation Commander and the MidAmerica Air-
       port Director.
       A1.14.2.8. Removing disabled aircraft, subject to the rules and regulations of the Air Force or
       National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), as applicable, in order to minimize the time the
       runway or any part thereof, would be closed because of such aircraft.

A1.15. The parties shall be responsible for the furnishing of utilities as required to operate their respec-
tive Flying Facilities.

A1.16. The parties will use their best efforts to perform runway maintenance and repairs with minimal
interruption to aircraft operations. However, the Air Force and County reserve the right to temporarily
suspend aircraft operations as required. The Air Force will not be responsible for any lost revenues that
the County may experience as a result of any such interruptions.

A1.17. The Air Force commitment to maintain and repair the SAFB Jointly Used Flying Facilities shall
continue only so long as required to accomplish the military mission, as determined in the sole discretion
of the Air Force.

Section A1D—Improvements and New Construction

A1.18. Improvements.
    A1.18.1. If either of the parties proposes to make improvements to one or more of its existing facili-
    ties, the improving party agrees to provide advance notice to and coordination with the other party
SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000                                                                               7

   during all phases of planning and construction. In addition, the parties hereby agree not to engage in
   any improvements without prior written approval from the FAA.
   A1.18.2. Scott AFB Flying Facilities including, but not limited to, lighting systems and/or markings
   are made available for use on an "as is, where is" basis. Nothing herein shall be construed to require
   the Air Force to improve the Scott AFB Flying Facilities solely to accommodate civil aircraft. The
   County may make improvements to the Scott AFB Flying Facilities in support of civil aircraft opera-
   tions and activities at no expense to the Air Force and with advance Air Force approval, which may
   not be unreasonably withheld. In considering whether to give its approval, the Air Force will consider
   the effect of proposed improvements on military operations as determined by the Air Force in its sole
   and absolute discretion.
   A1.18.3. The County shall not be required to improve the County Flying Facilities solely to accom-
   modate military aircraft. The Air Force may make improvements to the County Flying Facilities in
   support of military operations and activities at no expense to the County with advance County
   approval, which may not be unreasonably withheld. In considering whether to give its approval, the
   County will consider the effect of proposed improvements on civil operations as determined by the
   County in its sole and absolute discretion.

A1.19. A “Joint Use Improvement Project” shall be defined as any project that: 1) mutually benefits civil
and military operations and 2) exceeds the statutory limit for minor construction in 10 U.S.C. §2805 (cur-
rently $1.5 million dollars per project). Upon written concurrence of the parties, which shall not be unrea-
sonably withheld, said projects should be sponsored by the County under the Airport Improvement Act on
a cost-sharing basis. Cost sharing arrangements shall be the subject of separate negotiations between the
parties and are subject to the availability of federal funds.

A1.20. New construction projects required by the County for the SAFB or Jointly-Used Flying Facilities
shall be funded by the County and with Air Force concurrence, may proceed under the terms set out in this
agreement for other types of airport improvements. The County agrees to provide advance notice to and
coordination with the Air Force during all phases of planning and construction. In addition, the County
agrees not to engage in construction without the prior written approval of the FAA.

Section A1E—Compliance with Applicable Laws

A1.21. The Air Force and County shall at all times during the existence of this Agreement promptly
observe and comply with the provisions of all Federal, State, and local laws, rules, regulations, orders,
ordinances, and other governmental standards and requirements applicable to each of the parties for air-
craft operations and related activities under or pursuant to this Agreement, and particularly those provi-
sions concerning the protection of the environment, pollution control and abatement, and occupational
safety and health, whether the same now are in force, or that may at anytime in the future be enacted or
directed.

A1.22. The County shall comply with all State and local laws, ordinances, and regulations with regard to
licenses or permits to do business and all other matters.

A1.23. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to constitute a waiver of Federal supremacy or Fed-
eral sovereign immunity.
8                                                                        SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000

Section A1F—Environmental

A1.24. The County shall be responsible for any remedial action pursuant to applicable environmental
statutes required in connection with civil aircraft use of Air Force property.

A1.25. The County shall implement any noise or other mitigation plans associated with civil use of the
Jointly Used Flying Facilities, at no expense to the Air Force, pursuant to the requirements of:
    A1.25.1. The SAFB Air Installation Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) study and applicable FAA guid-
    ance as it presently exists or may be updated in the future;
    A1.25.2. Environmental impact statements; and
    A1.25.3. Environmental assessments, including supplements, that are applicable to civil aircraft
    operations.

A1.26. The County shall prepare an overall mitigation plan, which will identify and monitor the mitiga-
tions to be taken at SAFB. This plan will take into account the findings and mitigations discussed in the
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and the Air Force’s Record of Decision. The plan must be
approved by the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Environment, Safety and Occupational
Health.

A1.27. The County will provide funds for all agreed upon environmental mitigations associated with
joint use.

A1.28. The Air Force will not be responsible for conditions that might contribute to bird strikes affecting
civil aircraft. The County will assume full responsibility and hold the Air Force, its officers, agents and
employees harmless for any claims involving civil aircraft bird strikes.

Section A1G—Security

A1.29. The County shall comply, at no expense to the Air Force, with all applicable FAA security mea-
sures and procedures associated with civil aircraft use of the Jointly Used Flying Facilities. The Scott Air
Force Base Installation Commander and MidAmerica Airport Director shall develop a Joint Security
Agreement detailing procedures consistent with Air Force and FAA directives for controlling access to
Jointly Used Flying Facilities and shall prohibit privately-owned vehicles in areas prescribed as Jointly
Used Flying Facilities. Authority under the provisions of the Internal Security Act of 1950 in restricting
or prohibiting an individual access to SAFB may be exercised by the installation commander.

Section A1H—Fire Protection and Crash Rescue. The Air Force will maintain a level of fire fighting,
crash, and rescue capability required to support the military mission.

A1.30. The Air Force Installation Commander and County Airport Director shall develop a Disaster
Response/Joint Airport Emergency Plan detailing mutual aid.

A1.31. The Air Force and County agree to respond to fire, crash, and rescue emergencies involving mil-
itary or civil aircraft outside hangars or other structures within the limits of its existing capabilities, equip-
ment, and available personnel, and subject to subparagraphs C, D, and E below.
SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000                                                                                 9

A1.32. The County agrees to release, acquit, and forever discharge the Air Force, its officers, agents, and
employees from all liability arising out of or connected with the use of or failure to supply in individual
cases, Air Force fire fighting and/or crash and rescue equipment or personnel for fire control and crash
and rescue activities pursuant to this Agreement. The County further agrees, to the extent allowable under
Illinois law, to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the Air Force, its officers, agents, and employees
against any and all claims, of whatever description, arising out of or connected with such use of, or failure
to supply Air Force fire fighting and/or crash and rescue equipment or personnel.

A1.33. Failure to comply with the above conditions upon reasonable notice to cure or termination of this
Agreement under the provisions of paragraph 8 may result in termination of fire protection and crash and
rescue response by the Air Force.

A1.34. The Air Force commitment to assist the County with fire protection shall continue only so long as
a fire fighting and crash and rescue organization is authorized for military operations. The Air Force shall
have no obligation to maintain or provide a fire fighting, and crash and rescue organization or fire fighting
and crash and rescue equipment; or to provide any increase in fire fighting and crash and rescue equip-
ment or personnel; or to conduct training or inspections for purposes of assisting the County with fire pro-
tection. The Air Force will notify the County of any reduction in fire fighting capability, equipment, or the
withdrawal of same. This notice will be given at least 180 days in advance of such action to the extent
practicable, consistent with military operations and necessity as determined by the Air Force in its sole
and absolute discretion.

Section A1I—Landing Fees and Shared Costs

A1.35. The Air Force Installation Commander and County Airport Director shall develop a letter of
agreement detailing provisions for payments and shared costs for the jointly used flying facilities, utilities
for the air traffic control tower, and expenses incurred by the Air Force for fire fighting and/or crash and
rescue materials expended in connection with providing such service to civil aircraft. Any other expenses
the parties determine to be divisible on a mutually advantageous basis may also be included in the agree-
ment.

A1.36. The County is agreeable to unlimited use of County Flying Facilities by the Air Force, in common
with other users of MidAmerica Airport. The County hereby waives any and all charges or landing fees
under this inferred by the term substantial use under this agreement.

A1.37. The County may collect fees and charges from civil aircraft authorized use of SAFB Flying Facil-
ities under this Agreement. Civil aircraft operating at SAFB on official government business as provided
in Air Force instructions regarding Civil Aircraft Landing Permits shall also be exempt from County fees.

Section A1J—Liability and Insurance

A1.38. The County will assume all risk of loss and/or damage to property or injury to or death of persons
by reason of civil aircraft use of the SAFB Jointly Used Flying Facilities under this Agreement, including,
but not limited to, risks connected with the provision of services or goods by the Air Force to the County
or to any user under this Agreement. The County further agrees, to the extent allowable under Illinois law,
to indemnify and hold harmless the Air Force against, and to defend at the County’s expense, all claims
10                                                                    SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000

for loss, damage, injury, or death sustained by any individual or corporation or other entity and arising out
of the use of the SAFB Jointly Used Flying Facilities and/or the provision of services or goods by the Air
Force to the County or to any user, whether the claims be based in whole, or in part, on the negligence or
fault of the Air Force or its contractors or any of their officers, agents, and employees, or based on any
concept of strict or absolute liability, or otherwise. The County agrees it shall assume all liability for
claims by surrounding landowners resulting from over flights by civil aircraft. This covenant shall survive
the termination of this Agreement.

A1.39. The County will carry a policy of liability and indemnity insurance satisfactory to the Air Force,
naming the United States of America as an additional insured party, to protect the United States against
any of the aforesaid losses and/or liability, in the sum of not less than twenty-five (25) million dollars
combined single limit for passengers, bodily injury, and property damage for any one accident or incident,
subject to review at the request of either party hereto. The County shall provide the Air Force with a cer-
tificate of insurance evidencing such coverage. A new certificate must be provided on the occasion of pol-
icy renewal or change in coverage. All policies shall provide that
     A1.39.1. No cancellation, reduction in amount, or material change in coverage thereof shall be effec-
     tive until at least 30 days after receipt by the installation commander at SAFB of notice of such can-
     cellation, reduction, or change;
     A1.39.2. Any losses shall be payable notwithstanding any act or failure to act or negligence of the
     County or the Air Force or any other person; and
     A1.39.3. The insurer shall have no right of subrogation against the United States.

Section A1K—Air Force Retention of Temporary Lodging Facilities (TLF) Units

A1.40. The parties understand and agree that the Air Force has elected to retain 13 buildings (60 total
units) at the Cardinal Creek Village site, to be used for TLFs. The County is hereby excused from its pre-
vious obligation to demolish the structures and associated infrastructure for these, as well as any other
units the Air Force may elect to retain in Cardinal Creek Village.

Section A1L—Term of Agreement

A1.41. Agreement shall become effective immediately upon its execution by both parties and remain in
force and effect for a term of fifty (50) years, unless otherwise renegotiated or terminated under the pro-
visions of paragraph 11; but in no event shall the Agreement survive the termination or expiration of the
County's right to use, by license, lease, or transfer of ownership, of the land areas used in connection with
joint use of the SAFB Jointly Used Flying Facilities.

Section A1M—Renegotiation, Suspension, and Termination

A1.42. The Air Force and the County may enter into negotiations to revise the provisions of this Agree-
ment, including financial and insurance provisions, upon 30 days written notice to the other party. Any
such revision or modification of this Agreement shall require the written mutual agreement and signatures
of both parties. Unless such agreement is reached, the existing agreement shall continue in full force and
effect, subject to termination or suspension under this section.
SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000                                                                             11

A1.43. The Air Force may either, in its sole and absolute discretion, suspend or terminate this agreement:
   A1.43.1. For default by the County (as defined in paragraph 12e); or
   A1.43.2. Notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement, at any time during any national
   emergency, present or future, declared by the President or the Congress of the United States, or after a
   written determination of the Secretary of the Air Force that paramount military necessity at SAFB
   requires termination of civil aircraft use of the SAFB Jointly-Used Flying Facilities.
   A1.43.3. After reasonable advance notice to the County and the FAA and the issuance of a Notice to
   Airmen (NOTAM), may temporarily prohibit all or certain civil aircraft operations on the SAFB run-
   way for up to 24 hours, if necessary, to avoid serious interference with Air Force operations. The Air
   Force assumes no liability for lost revenues.

A1.44. Any suspension or termination under 12b(1) shall be effective:
   A1.44.1. Immediately upon written notice thereof to the County if the default creates a significant
   danger to safety, public health, or the environment as determined by the Air Force in its sole and abso-
   lute discretion; or
   A1.44.2. Thirty days after written notice thereof to the County in all other instances.

A1.45. Any suspension or termination under 12b(2) shall be effective immediately upon written notice
thereof to the County or such later date as may be specified in the notice.

A1.46. The following shall constitute a default by the County under this Agreement: The violation by the
County of any of the terms and conditions of this agreement, where such violation continues and persists
for 30 days after written notification to cure such violation. If, however, the time required to cure such
violation exceeds the 30-day period, the County shall not be deemed to be in default if the County, within
such period shall begin the actions necessary to cure the violation in accordance with a cure schedule
acceptable to the Air Force.

A1.47. The County may terminate this Agreement at any time by giving ninety (90) days' written notice
to the Air Force.

Section A1N—Effect on Previous Agreements

A1.48. The parties entered into a Joint Use Agreement dated 17 September 1991, and Amendment No. 1
dated 2 December 1993. The provisions of those agreements shall remain binding and in effect until exe-
cuted. The failure of this agreement to incorporate any language or provisions from previous agreements
shall not be deemed a waiver of those provisions. However, in the event there is a conflict between the
provisions of this agreement and earlier agreements, the language of this agreement shall control.

Section A1O—General Provisions

A1.49. The County shall neither transfer nor assign this agreement without the prior written consent of
the Air Force, which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. Subject to Air Force approval, the
County’s rights and obligations under this Agreement may be assumed by or assigned to the State of Illi-
nois acting by and through the Illinois Department of Transportation, or by any local government unit des-
12                                                                   SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000

ignated by the State of Illinois, acting by and through the Illinois Department of Transportation. However,
only one joint use agreement providing for civil aircraft use of SAFB will be in effect anytime.

A1.50. No member or delegate to Congress shall be admitted to any share or part of this agreement or to
any benefit that may arise therefrom, but this provision shall not be construed to extend to this Agreement
if made with a corporation for its general benefit.

A1.51. The County warrants that it has not employed any person to solicit or secure this agreement upon
any agreement for a commission, percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee. Breach of this warranty shall
give the government the right to require payment from the County of the amount of such commission,
percentage, brokerage, or contingent fee. This warranty shall not apply to commissions payable upon con-
tract or lease secured or made through bona fide established commercial or selling agencies maintained by
the County for the purpose of doing business.

A1.52. It is expressly agreed that this written instrument embodies the entire financial arrangement and
agreement of the parties regarding the use of the Jointly-Used Flying Facilities, and there are no under-
standings or agreements, verbal or otherwise, between the parties in regard to it, except as expressly set
forth herein. Specifically, no landing fees or other fees not provided in this agreement will be assessed by
the County against the government in the use of the County Jointly-Used Flying Facilities during the term
of this agreement.

A1.53. The failure of either the Air Force or the County to insist, in any one or more instances, upon the
strict performance of any of the terms, conditions, or provisions of this agreement shall not be construed
as a waiver or relinquishment of the right to the future performance of any such terms, conditions, or pro-
visions. No provision of this agreement shall be deemed to have been waived by either party unless such
waiver be in writing signed by such party.

A1.54. The brief headings or titles preceding any paragraphs and subparagraphs are merely for purposes
of identification, convenience, and ease of reference, and will be completely disregarded in the construc-
tion of this Agreement.

Section A1P—Notices. No notice, order, direction, determination, requirement, consent, or approval
under this Agreement shall be of any effect unless it is in writing and addressed as provided herein.

A1.55. Written communication to the County shall be delivered or mailed to the County at the following
address:


      Public Building Commission
      St. Clair County
      10 Public Square
      Belleville, IL 62220

A1.56. Written communication to the Air Force shall be delivered or mailed to the Air Force at the fol-
lowing address:
SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000                                                                                13


375 AW/CC
101 Heritage Drive, Suite 375
Scott AFB IL 62225-5305

Section A1Q—Records and Books of Account

A1.57. The Air Force and County agrees to keep records and books of account, showing the actual cost
of all items of labor, materials, equipment, supplies, services, and other expenditures made in fulfilling the
obligations of this Agreement, and the Comptroller General of the United States or any duly authorized
representative shall, until the expiration of 3 years after final payment, have access at all times to such
records and books of account, or to any directly pertinent books, documents, papers, and records of any of
the Air Force’s or County’s contractors or subcontractors engaged in the performance of and involving
transactions related to this agreement. The County further agrees that representatives of the Air Force
Audit Agency or any other designated representative of the Government shall have the same right of
access to such records, books of account, documents, and papers as is available to the Comptroller Gen-
eral.

Section A1R—Other

A1.58. In the event Air Force closes SAFB, continued use of the SAFB Jointly-Used Flying Facilities
may be permitted, subject to overriding property disposal and property utilization laws and requirements
then in effect, provided the County assumes the responsibility for control and maintenance of such facili-
ties under a lease from the appropriate government agency. Such lease shall be at a nominal rental fee
($1.00 per year) unless otherwise prohibited by law. This arrangement will prevail, unless otherwise
mutually agreed upon, until disposal can be effected under existing surplus property disposal laws or until
reactivation of the installation for military purposes.


        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the respective duly authorized representatives of the parties hereto
have executed this Agreement on the date set forth below opposite their respective signatures.


                                                UNITED STATES AIR FORCE

Date: _______                          By:__________________________
                                       JIMMY G. DISHNER
                                       Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
                                       (Installations)



                                                ST. CLAIR COUNTY, ILLINOIS
14                                     SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000

Date: _______   By:__________________________
                JOHN BARICEVIC
                Chairman
                St. Clair County Board
SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000                                                                             15

                                             Attachment 2

                               TABLE OF ALLOWABLE COST ITEMS

A2.1. The following information is provided directly from SAFBI 65-202 and is in support of HQ USAF
SAF/GCN and HQ AMC tasking to the 375th Airlift Wing to begin collecting and reporting costs for the
maintenance and operations of the Scott AFB Airfield. This data may be required for negotiations with St.
Clair County regarding the military use of MidAmerica’s Airport runway:
   A2.1.1. Pavement maintenance (except for capital improvements)
   A2.1.2. Grass cutting
   A2.1.3. Erosion control
   A2.1.4. Storm drainage
   A2.1.5. Surveying
   A2.1.6. Snowplowing and removal
   A2.1.7. Airfield lighting (materials, maintenance, and labor)
   A2.1.8. Airfield supplies
   A2.1.9. Insurance (except fire and liability)
   A2.1.10. NAVAIDS (materials, maintenance, and labor)
   A2.1.11. Weather facilities
   A2.1.12. Electrical repairs
   A2.1.13. Plumbing repairs
   A2.1.14. Airfield equipment (maintenance)
   A2.1.15. Administrative salaries not in excess of 30 percent in direct support of airfield maintenance
   and operation to the joint use areas; (Air Force contribution based on its proportional use of the 30
   percent maximum)
   A2.1.16. Utilities
   A2.1.17. Entomology (pest control)
   A2.1.18. Airfield striping (Air Force requirements)
   A2.1.19. Airfield sweeping (Air Force criteria)
   A2.1.20. Control tower

A2.2. Additional comments:
   A2.2.1. A traffic count from the tower needs to be obtained that delineates the civilian and military
   percentage of use. The Air Force should provide internal operations traffic count for Air Force sorties.
   A2.2.2. The government does not contribute to depreciation of airport facilities.
16                         SAFBI65-202 28 JANUARY 2000

            Attachment 3

     SCOTT AFB/MIDAMERICA ARPT
