BY ORDER OF THE                                                     SCOTT AFB INSTRUCTION 32-1002
INSTALLATION COMMANDER                                                                11 DECEMBER 1998

                                                                                           Civil Engineering

                                                                      PEST MANAGEMENT PROGRAM




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 375 CES/CEOIB (TSgt Gann)                                               Certified by: 375 CES/CEOIB
                                                                                      (Mr. Frederick Krems)
Supersedes SAFBI 32-1002, 18 November 1994.                                                         Pages: 3
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This instruction outlines the responsibilities for pest control in military family housing (MFH) and other
installation facilities that are under the control of a building manager on Scott Air Force Base, Illinois.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes the responsibilities and procedures for self-help pest management.

1. General. Occupants of MFH, building managers, and Base Civil Engineer (BCE) jointly share the
responsibility for pest control. Occupants and building managers must practice good sanitation and avoid
practices that could cause pest build-up. The BCE will assist to prevent or remove unwanted pests.

2. Occupant and Building Manager Responsibilities:
   2.1. Occupants of MFH and building managers eligible for self-help will control the following pests
   when they occur in their quarters or facilities: cockroaches, crickets, earwig firebrats, flies, silverfish,
   sow bugs (pill bugs), mice, miscellaneous flying and crawling insects that do not destroy Air Force
   property. All of these pests can be prevented or controlled through integrated pest management (IPM)
   measures, such as good housekeeping, proper food storage, pest exclusion, and minimal use of
   self-help insecticides or supplies. Occupants of MFH may voluntarily control minor infestations of
   wasps, bees, yellow jackets, or hornets that are outdoors around their quarters.
   2.2. Occupants and building managers will also control insects and other pests that attack their indoor
   plants, outdoor gardens, such as flower beds, and other ornamental plants that were not planted by the
   BCE or other base organizations. Pesticides available in the self-help program will not control these
   insects. Occupants and building managers will have to purchase appropriate pesticides or biological
   control organisms to do so.
2                                                                 SAFBI32-1002 11 DECEMBER 1998


    2.3. When facilities with pest infestations that do not respond to properly applied self-help or units
    with structural deficiencies that make self-help control methods difficult, installation pest manage-
    ment personnel may take measures after 30 days. Pest management personnel must survey these units
    to determine the reasons for self-help control failure before treatment.
    2.4. Pest management personnel will control pests, which pose a significant health hazard, such as
    bees, yellow jackets, ground-nesting wasps, large aerial nests, and relatively hard-to-reach nests that
    still pose a threat to occupants that are better left alone. Pest management personnel will control fleas
    and ticks, except on animals. Occupants should control fleas and ticks on animals at the same time that
    MFH treatments are made. (NOTE: Pest management personnel will control even minor venomous
    arthropod infestations if MFH occupants or building managers elect not to use appropriate commer-
    cially available general-use insecticides or appropriate self-help materials to voluntarily control small
    infestations. Cockroaches are not considered a significant health hazard, except under filthy condi-
    tions.) Pest management personnel will control pests that destroy Air Force property, such as termites,
    carpenter ants, and wood boring beetles. Pest management will also control significant infestations of
    insects that attack landscape material planted by the installation.
    2.5. It is the responsibility of the senior occupant of any multiple MFH building or building manager
    to coordinate any appointment for pest management assistance with BCE and ensure all units are pre-
    pared and available. Request for services can be made by calling CE Customer Service at 256-2202.
    If any units are not available at the appointment time, the appointment will be cancelled and will not
    be treated. NOTE: Exceptions are medical situations, TDY, or personnel on leave.
    2.6. Quarters will not be treated if dirty or unsanitary. Quarters found in this condition, will be
    reported to the Housing Manager (375 CES/CEH) for appropriate action.
    2.7. Pest Management personnel will not treat quarters or buildings if it is evident that occupants or
    building managers have not attempted to control pests through a self-help program. When requested,
    pest management personnel will demonstrate proper use of self-help materials.
    2.8. In Cardinal Creek Housing, it is the responsibility of the senior occupant to coordinate the pest
    management effort, so all quarters using self-help materials are treated within 48 hours.
    2.9. It is the responsibility of the pet owner to remove dead domesticated animals in MFH. They may
    be taken to the base Veterinary Clinic for disposal during duty hours.
    2.10. It is the responsibility of the occupants to remove dead animals inside their trash cans.

3. Base Civil Engineer Responsibilities:
    3.1. Stock a limited amount of self-help materials in the base Self-Help Store with instructions on
    their use. Instruction sheets will be provided as necessary. Recipients will sign for all materials.
    3.2. Upon request, provide pest management services when such control is beyond the capability of
    prudent MFH occupants and building managers. All pest management services will be done during
    normal duty hours. Request for pest management services will be treated as a routine requirement and
    normally completed within 30 days. Urgent requirements are limited to poisonous arthropods, venom-
    ous reptiles, and stinging insects (bees, wasps, etc.).
    3.3. Advise occupants and building managers on proper and safe pest management techniques.
    3.4. Assist in removal of wild animals in MFH areas.
SAFBI32-1002 11 DECEMBER 1998                                                                         3


4. Security Forces Responsibilities. Assist pest control personnel in the removal of wild animals deter-
mined to be diseased or dangerous.



                                                       GEORGE R. AUTEN, JR., Lt Col, USAF
                                                       Base Civil Engineer
