BY ORDER OF THE                                                   SCOTT AFB INSTRUCTION 32-6005
INSTALLATION COMMANDER                                                                        7 MAY 2001

                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                                        UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING
                                                                                 MANAGEMENT



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 375 CES/CEHD (MSgt Hardas)                              Certified by: 375 CES/CC (Lt Col Brackett)
Supersedes SAFBI 32-6005, 31 December 1999.                                                  Pages: 12
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction prescribes policies and procedures for management of the single enlisted military dormi-
tories; outlines responsibilities of the squadron commanders, first sergeants, dormitory superintendent,
dormitory manager, students, and residents; specifies standards for dormitory cleanliness, neatness,
safety, and military bearing. This publication applies to all residents assigned to the dormitories on Scott
AFB IL.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.




1. Objectives :
   1.1. Provides general guidelines for consolidated dormitory management at Scott AFB IL. Desig-
   nates the 375th Civil Engineer Squadron as the 375 AW staff agency responsible for dormitory man-
   agement.
   1.2. Ensures dormitories are maintained in a manner conducive to good health, safety, morale and
   welfare, while promoting the individual resident’s responsibility.

2. Squadron Commanders’ and First Sergeants’ Responsibilities :
   2.1. Ensure dormitory resident inspection programs are established and maintained. Follow Air Force
   policy to keep the number of dormitory inspections at the absolute minimum, while promoting the
   occupant’s responsibilities.
   2.2. Support unit requests for bay orderly/charge of quarters (CQ) details. Review and monitor all bay
   orderly/CQ unit taskings to ensure members who are exempt, i.e., Honor Guard members and mem-
2                                                                     SCOTTAFBI32-6005 7 MAY 2001


    bers projected for permanent change of assignment (after their departure), are not tasked. Ensure bay
    orderly/CQ rosters are coordinated through unit channels to avoid scheduling conflicts due to pro-
    jected leaves, TDY, and off-base moves. When possible, coordinate individual tasking changes
    through dormitory management by E-mail. In a situation where a tasked individual is unable to com-
    plete their detail, the first sergeant will work with dormitory management on a case-by-case basis to
    provide a replacement worker.
    2.3. Ensure dormitory residents in- and out-processing procedures are accomplished through the dor-
    mitory manager. Individuals will be held responsible for completing all items on the Dormitory
    Out-Processing Checklist (see Attachment 1).
    2.4. Support the dormitory management in investigating cases involving any damage beyond fair
    wear and tear of dormitory furnishings or real property. The first sergeant will be notified of the inves-
    tigation findings.
    2.5. Space-Available Policy. Due to the limited number of resources, space-available lodging will
    only be provided to extreme hardship cases. First sergeants must carefully evaluate request and submit
    only validated hardship cases for space-available lodging. The Superintendent, Dormitory Manage-
    ment, is the approving authority of short-term occupants. All space-available requests should be made
    via E-mail to the superintendent. The Base Civil Engineer is the disapproving authority.
       2.5.1. Domestic violence situations are incidents that involve intervention of the Security Forces,
       Family Advocacy or the first sergeant concludes a probability for violence exists.
           2.5.1.1. An emergency domestic violence room is available in Dormitory 1912, Room 318,
           with three available bed spaces. The room is intended to provide first sergeants with a quick
           fix for domestic violence issues for military members, when billeting is not available. The
           intent of the room is to provide 24- to 72-hour stays for domestic cases.
           2.5.1.2. The keys to Dormitory 1912, Room 318, are located at the Security Forces Law
           Enforcement Desk (LED), and they are available 24-hours a day. The first sergeants are
           responsible for signing out and issuing the key to the military members. Since this room is
           most commonly issued to males, first sergeants should use caution before issuing the room to
           a female. First sergeants will be responsible to ensure no conflict exists. First sergeants will
           ensure the room is maintained in inspection order, i.e., cleanliness. This step includes having
           occupant wash and replace linens on the bed, prior to departure. First sergeants will ensure the
           key is returned to the Security Forces LED no later than the next day after use is terminated.
           The First Sergeant’s Suite, Dormitory 1912, Room 318, is designated as a No Smoking Area.
       2.5.2. All space-available requests will be approved for short-term stay only. NOTE: Thirty days
       or less. First sergeants who have personnel requiring an extended stay may request an extension
       for up to 30 days. The Base Civil Engineer must approve all requests for extensions to Dormitory
       1912, Room 318. However, this step must be accomplished prior to the termination date estab-
       lished by dormitory management. If prior to the termination date the bed space is no longer
       required, the room must be returned to dormitory management as soon as possible in inspection
       order.

3. Dormitory Superintendent’s Responsibilities:
    3.1. He or she is assigned and responsible to the Base Civil Engineer as the focal point for Consoli-
    dated Dormitory Management (CDM).
SCOTTAFBI32-6005 7 MAY 2001                                                                             3


   3.2. Plans, organizes, and directs dormitory operational requirements.
   3.3. Ensures occupancy reports to HQ AMC are accurate and timely.
   3.4. He or she confirms annual single rate for the basic allowance for housing (BAH) certification to
   the Base Housing Office.
   3.5. Conducts annual assessment of furniture and provides results to the Base Housing Office.
   Projects dormitory furniture/furnishing requirements annually to the Base Housing Office. Investi-
   gates and identifies to the Base Civil Engineer any situations regarding resident abuse of government
   furnishings and/or real property.
   3.6. Participates in the Quarters Improvement Committee (QIC).
   3.7. Monitors group integrity and maintains occupancy rate at or above 90 percent.
   3.8. Acts as the focal point for all space-available requests.

4. Dormitory Manager’s Responsibilities:
   4.1. He or she is assigned and responsible to the dormitory superintendent as part of the CDM team.
   4.2. He or she is appointed as the facility manager for the assigned dormitories. Maintains a working
   file of outstanding Civil Engineer job requests, annotated by date, job number, status, and date com-
   pleted. Identifies safety and health hazards in individual rooms and common-use areas. Establishes
   corrective measures.
   4.3. Manages room assignments and maintains accurate occupancy data reports. Conducts initial and
   termination inspection of dormitory resident’s room in accordance with (IAW) established standards.
   Issues initial linen, pillow, and comforter upon resident in-processing. Maintains control and manage-
   ment of the assigned hospitality rooms.
   4.4. Accounts for all furniture, appliances, recreation equipment, and supplies. Establishes and main-
   tains equipment check-out procedures, i.e., vacuums, carpet cleaning machines, etc. Ensures com-
   mon-use equipment items (washers, dryers, TVs, etc.) are kept serviceable and properly maintained.
   In situations where the abuses of government furnishings and/or real property are identified, the dor-
   mitory manager will provide the superintendent with necessary documentation to initiate a claim on
   behalf of the government. The dormitory superintendent will coordinate the investigation and collec-
   tion of funds on a DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization, with the unit first sergeant. Claims
   against a dormitory resident for less than $500 in damages will be initiated utilizing a DD Form 139
   and processed through the 375th Comptroller Squadron (Finance). Claims in excess of $500 will
   result in a recommendation to the Base Civil Engineer for a Report of Survey.
   4.5. He or she schedules personnel for bay orderly and CQ duties. Ensures work detail is given ade-
   quate supplies and guidance to perform task.
   4.6. Ensures the highest standards of dormitory cleanliness, neatness, safety, and military bearing are
   met and maintained.
   4.7. Accounts for all supplies needed to maintain dormitory common-use areas. Makes available to
   individual occupant supply items, i.e., light bulbs, etc.
   4.8. Conducts distinguished visitor tours for assigned dormitory.
   4.9. Serves as an advisor to the dormitory council and provides support.
4                                                                    SCOTTAFBI32-6005 7 MAY 2001


5. Resident’s Responsibilities:
    5.1. In-Processing/Out-Processing. All room assignments for incoming personnel will be made
    through dormitory management. Rooms may be issued through the member’s sponsor no earlier than
    2 duty days, prior to projected arrival date. The sponsor will be required to keep dormitory manage-
    ment apprised of any changes in member’s arrival date/time/cancellations. Male and female hospital-
    ity rooms are available when advance room assignments have not been made. These rooms are to be
    used solely as temporary quarters for arriving personnel. Arriving personnel will report to dormitory
    management the next duty day to be assigned their permanent room. All pipeline students will be
    housed in Dormitory 1912.
       5.1.1. Dormitory-to-Dormitory Moves. All moves will be kept to a minimum and must be deter-
       mined by dormitory management to be in the best interest of the member and the Air Force. Dor-
       mitory moves not meeting group integrity criteria will not be approved. First sergeants may
       request hardship relocations.
       5.1.2. All residents will acknowledge, in writing, their dormitory responsibilities and liabilities at
       the time of initial assignment. The dormitory manager and the resident will perform a joint room
       inspection at the time of issuance and termination. Residents must schedule an out-processing
       inspection appointment through the dormitory manager at least 48-hours in advance. Out-process-
       ing appointments for the dormitory will only be scheduled during normal business hours,
       0700-1600, Mon-Fri. All residents must out-process through dormitory management or they will
       be held financially liable for any inventory discrepancies, damages to the room/furnishings, and
       contract cleaning charges.
           5.1.2.1. Cleaning Standards. The occupant will satisfactorily complete the tasks on the
           out-processing checklist, prior to terminating his or her dormitory room (see Attachment 1).
           5.1.2.2. Reasonable effort must be made to clean the room and bring it up to standards as
           defined in Attachment 1, this instruction. If this task is not accomplished after the third failed
           inspection, dormitory management will notify the first sergeant, seize the keys, and contracted
           cleaning will be ordered at the member’s expense.
    5.2. Room Standards. Residents shall be responsible for maintaining standards, such as routine main-
    tenance, minor repair, and housekeeping, as would be expected of tenants in private housing of similar
    type and value. Residents will be responsible for the appearance and cleanliness of their room and all
    common-use areas. Rooms will be maintained in a clean and orderly fashion. Dormitory residents will
    receive a partial BAH and must purchase their own cleaning supplies. Furniture/permanent fixtures
    will be kept clean and utilized for their intended purpose. Refrigerators will be defrosted as needed.
    Issued bed linens, comforters, blankets or purchased items must be kept clean, neat, and in good
    repair. Clean clothing must be neatly stored in wall lockers or drawers. Dirty clothing will be placed
    in laundry bags or other suitable containers. Rooms are to be decorated in good taste with materials
    that do not damage surfaces. Items placed on the walls or ceiling with adhesive backing are prohib-
    ited. Unframed pictures and posters may be mounted by placing a small piece of masking tape neatly
    to the corners, then using thumbtacks. Pornographic or inflammatory material will not be openly dis-
    played. Window decorations must be tasteful in nature and not detract from the exterior appearance of
    the building. Rooms will not be painted, wallpapered or carpeted without written permission from
    dormitory management.
SCOTTAFBI32-6005 7 MAY 2001                                                                               5


  5.3. Lost, Damaged or Missing Government Property. Residents will be held liable for lost, damaged
  or missing government property, equipment or furnishings, caused by the abuse or negligence of the
  occupant or their guest. Residents departing the dormitory who do not satisfactorily clean their
  assigned room will be held financially liable. Lost or stolen room keys will be immediately reported
  to dormitory management. Member will be held responsible for the cost of replacing locks, if their key
  is lost more than once during their occupancy.
  5.4. Maintenance. Report facility/furnishings maintenance discrepancies to the dormitory manager as
  soon as possible. E-mail requests for maintenance are preferred. After duty hours, all discrepancies
  will be reported to the assigned bay orderly or CQ. For emergency maintenance, broken pipes, electri-
  cal safety concerns, etc., contact the Civil Engineer Customer Service at 256-2202. All situations
  involving the loss of heating and cooling for dormitory residents will be treated as an “emergency”
  work request by the Civil Engineer and corrected within 24 hours of notification.
     5.4.1. During emergency maintenance situations, dormitory occupants will immediately notify
     the Civil Engineer Customer Service at 256-2202. All other emergencies should be reported to the
     Security Forces LED at 256-2223.
  5.5. Fire, Health, and Safety. Residents are required to maintain and follow all established fire, health,
  and safety instructions. All furnishings will be appropriately arranged in resident rooms and com-
  mon-use areas to provide proper egress in case of fire/medical emergency/evacuation. No items,
  chairs, tables, etc., should be left in the exterior pathway of the resident’s room that would impede
  evacuation in case of a fire. Flammables are not allowed at any time in or near resident rooms, includ-
  ing firecrackers, self-starting charcoal, lighter fluid, barbecue grills, etc. No incense, candles (burnt)
  or open-flame item will be allowed in the dormitory. Residents must attend a fire safety briefing upon
  arrival. Scheduling information regarding this briefing is provided to the resident in their in-process-
  ing folder.
     5.5.1. In the event of a fire alarm condition (actual or drill), all dormitory residents will evacuate
     the dormitory area to a safe distance as directed by the Fire Department, Security Forces or other
     authorities. Normally, the evacuation distance will not be less than 100 feet from the dormitory.
     Residents will remain in the safe area until the “all clear” is declared by the Fire Department. In
     the event of an actual fire, evacuate the building and notify the Fire Department immediately by
     dialing 9-1-1. Small fires will be fought with available fire extinguishers until the Fire Depart-
     ment’s arrival.
     5.5.2. Prohibitions. Violations of the following prohibitions will subject the individual to disci-
     plinary action pursuant to the Uniform Code of Military Justice:
         5.5.2.1. Fire extinguishers, detection, and alarm equipment will not be tampered with,
         obscured, or used, except for the intended purpose. Individuals caught tampering with these
         devices will face disciplinary action.
         5.5.2.2. Firearms. In accordance with AFI 31-209, The Air Force Resource Protection Pro-
         gram, dormitory residents must store firearms and ammunition in the Security Forces Armory.
         Personnel arriving PCS with privately owned firearms or munitions, which will be assigned to
         quarters in the dormitory, must immediately register and store them at the Security Forces
         Armory. An AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt, will be accomplished at the time of
         registration for short-term storage. Thereafter, an AF Form 1314, Firearms Registration,
         must be completed at the unit, signed by the unit commander, and returned to the armory
6                                                                    SCOTTAFBI32-6005 7 MAY 2001


           within 72 hours to authorize long-term storage. Use or possession of weapons, firearms, muni-
           tions, and explosives including, but not limited to black powder, fireworks, BB guns, pellet
           guns (to include metal or paint pellets), dart guns, air rifles, bows and arrows, swords,
           machetes, straight razors, axes, hatchets, martial arts weapons, any other dangerous or deadly
           weapons or instruments, are prohibited in the dormitory. The list of prohibited weapons is
           not meant to be all-inclusive.
           5.5.2.3. Responsible Alcohol Use. Residents will be responsible for their actions when con-
           suming alcohol in the dormitory. Residents must be of legal age to consume alcohol (21 years
           old in the State of Illinois). Underage drinking will not be permitted. Residents who entertain
           guests (where alcohol is served) will be responsible for ensuring proper age requirements are
           met, as well as liable for maintaining good order and discipline. All residents will be responsi-
           ble for maintaining appropriate building and room integrity.
           5.5.2.4. Use of Cooking Appliances or Apparatus. The dormitory management will authorize
           the use of popcorn poppers and coffeepots. All appliances must be Underwriters Labora-
           tory-approved. No open burner appliances will be authorized for use in a resident's room
           unless utilized in a designated kitchenette. No open-flame appliances will be permitted. Indi-
           viduals must remain in the room while cooking and may be held financially responsible for
           any and all damages.
           5.5.2.5. Knives. Any knife with a blade length in excess of 3 inches is prohibited. The excep-
           tions are kitchen knives and government-issued survival knives and equipment required to be
           stored with mobility gear. These items may be secured in the resident’s locker. Decorative
           swords or other nonfunctional weapons manufactured solely for the purpose of decorative dis-
           play may, with the concurrence of the member’s first sergeant or squadron commander, be
           tastefully displayed in the member’s room.
           5.5.2.6. Smoking Policy. Residents are discouraged from smoking in their room. The rights of
           the nonsmoker will always prevail. Common areas (dayrooms, laundry rooms, foyers, bath-
           rooms, kitchens, and areas near common-use telephones) are considered nonsmoking. All
           transient and student rooms are considered no smoking rooms. Smoking in bed is prohibited.
    5.6. Pets. Residents are permitted to have a single pet (one) as long as the established guidelines are
    followed. Pets are defined as animals that can be humanely housed in an aquarium and must not
    be considered wildlife by Air Force directives. Residents may not have aquariums that exceed a
    20-gallon capacity. The aquarium must have a secured cover. Pets will not be visible outside of the
    resident's room. The type of pet contained within the dormitory room will be clearly displayed in the
    resident's window. Residents are responsible for proper health and welfare of his or her pet. Residents
    will maintain a written record of all shots, medical treatment, etc. All requests for housing of pets in
    the dormitory environment will be coordinated with the Base Veterinarian.
    5.7. Automobiles and Motorcycles. Occupants are responsible for ensuring their vehicles are regis-
    tered on base with proper base decals. Disabled or abandoned vehicles that are left in the dormitory
    parking lot for an extended period will be towed at the occupant’s expense. Automotive or mechanical
    parts are not permitted in the resident’s room. Motorcycles or any other type of motor-driven vehicle
    will not be parked in the resident’s room, picnic shelters, and grass areas or on any concrete surface.
SCOTTAFBI32-6005 7 MAY 2001                                                                              7


  5.8. Bicycles will not be stored in occupant’s room or attached to the outside walkway/stairwell. Each
  dormitory will have a designated storage for bicycles. NOTE: See the dormitory manager for further
  guidance. Bicycles must be clearly labeled with the owner’s name and room number.
  5.9. Guests. Residents will be responsible for all guests while they are in the dormitory complex.
  Guests must remain with the host during their visit. Visiting hours are 24-hours a day, unless posted.
  This provision does not mean that residents may have a “live-in” guest. No one is authorized to reside
  in the dormitory other than the assigned member. Under no circumstances will a guest be given or
  loaned a room key. Nonresidents are not authorized the use of the game rooms, unless accompanied
  by a resident. Nonresidents are not authorized use of dormitory laundry facilities. Guests under the
  age of 18 are not allowed, unless the guest is a military member or accompanied by a parent or legal
  guardian. Small children are not allowed to visit above the ground level, but may visit with the resi-
  dent in the dayroom or anywhere on the ground floor. If the room is double occupancy, the host
  must obtain the other occupant's consent prior to admitting a guest. The other occupant retains
  the right at all times to request the guest to vacate their room.
  5.10. Trash Removal. Residents must empty room trash daily into the exterior dumpster. Residents
  will not place room trash outside their door at any time. Individual room trash will not be emptied in
  any of the common-use trash containers.
  5.11. Security. Resident rooms will be kept secured when not occupied. In shared occupancy rooms,
  valuables will be placed in a secure container and not left out in the open.
  5.12. Noise. Residents will maintain appropriate noise levels at all times and not disturb other occu-
  pants. Residents shall be held accountable for their conduct/actions in the dormitory and should not
  deny the rights of others.
  5.13. Ghost Room Policy. A “ghost room” is defined as a room that has been assigned to an occupant
  and the occupant has chosen to reside elsewhere. Personnel are assigned to government quarters and
  not authorized BAH when adequate quarters are available. Occupant may live off base at their own
  expense (without BAH) if they are not required to live on base for reasons of military necessity, readi-
  ness or discipline. Personnel who wish to live off base at their own expense must maintain their
  assigned room to establish standards, and they will be assigned regular dormitory clean-up duties (bay
  orderly or CQ). Rooms will not be reassigned until the individual has been authorized BAH and
  released from the dormitory.
  5.14. Marriage. Residents within 30 days of marriage who are setting up a household in the local area
  can request BAH. Dormitory management will rely on the E-mail confirmation from the first sergeant
  regarding a member’s intent to marry. Resident will be required to clear their dormitory room NLT 30
  days after marriage. Advance notification to the dormitory manager regarding the individual’s room
  termination date is required. If a resident fails to clear their dormitory room, they will be held finan-
  cially responsible for inventory discrepancies and contract cleaning. The 375th Comptroller Squadron
  (Finance) will notify dormitory management of an E-4 or below applying for BAH entitlement due to
  marriage. This action will aid in identifying any dormitory residents who are receiving BAH entitle-
  ments that have not terminated their base quarters and facilitate the process of BAH validation.
  5.15. Pregnancy. Pregnant service members may, with their unit commander’s approval, submit a
  request to dormitory management to move from the dormitory to off-base community housing in their
  20th week of pregnancy. The installation commander will direct the move of pregnant members
8                                                                    SCOTTAFBI32-6005 7 MAY 2001


    between the 30th week of pregnancy to the date of birth. Advance notification to the dormitory man-
    ager regarding the individual’s room termination date is required.
    5.16. Promotion to Staff Sergeant. Senior airman selected for promotion to staff sergeant (E-5) will
    be authorized BAH up to 30 days prior to the projected date of promotion. Staff sergeants will not be
    allowed to remain in the dormitory longer than 30 days after promotion.
    5.17. Basic Allowance for Housing Policy. To be placed on the BAH waiting list, the occupant must
    complete a Scott AFB Form 60, Request for Application/Authorization of BAQ, and return the
    form to Building 1830, Room 3. When the overall base dormitory occupancy rate exceeds 90 percent,
    using the BAH waiting list according to occupant’s date of rank, dormitory management will release
    a BAH approval letter. The occupant is encouraged to provide any changes in rank to dormitory man-
    agement to ensure their status and placement on the waiting list is correct. Residents who decline
    BAH are suspended from placing their names back on the BAH waiting list for a period of 6 months,
    starting from the date they declined the BAH entitlement.
    5.18. Bulk Storage. Residents will utilize their room key to gain access to bulk storage. All items
    placed in these areas must be secured in their assigned locker and clearly labeled with the member’s
    name and room number. All items must be stored in assigned storage unit, unless authorized by dor-
    mitory management. Items left unsecured, will be donated to the Airmen’s Attic or disposed.
    5.19. Furniture/Inventories. Inventories are accomplished periodically to ensure accountability of all
    dormitory furniture and equipment. All furnishings issued at the time of room assignment will remain
    in the resident’s room. Residents are not to dismantle, unbolt or relocate furniture/fixtures/appliances.
    Dormitory policy is to limit the number of times the furniture is handled and moved, in order to avoid
    the possibility of damage.
    5.20. Lock-Out Procedures. If an occupant is locked out of their room, they will report to dormitory
    management during normal duty hours or to the CQ after normal duty hours. Appropriate identifica-
    tion is required before allowing an occupant into the room. Security Forces LED will be responsible
    for all lockouts after normal duty hours.

6. 375th Security Forces’ Responsibilities:
    6.1. Maintains key control of master set of dormitory keys. A blotter entry will be required each time
    the keys are utilized. Entry documentation should include the date, time, building, and room number
    accessed, name of the individual from Security Forces being issued the keys, and the purpose for
    which entry is made. Documentation should also be made regarding return of the keys to the Security
    Forces LED.
    6.2. Security Forces will be responsible for all lockouts after the dormitory management’s normal
    duty hours.
    6.3. Maintains key control of Building 1912, Room 318. This room is intended for domestic violence
    situations, and the key is only checked out to first sergeants at Scott AFB.

7. 375th Comptroller Squadron’s (Finance) Responsibilities:
    7.1. The 375th Comptroller Squadron (Finance) will notify dormitory management of all E-4 or
    below applying for BAH entitlement due to marriage.
SCOTTAFBI32-6005 7 MAY 2001                                                                        9


  7.2. This action will ensure everyone properly out-processes the dormitory, as required, and allows
  for optimum utilization of housing resources.



                                                 JAMES S. BRACKETT, Lt Col, USAF
                                                 Base Civil Engineer
10                                                                  SCOTTAFBI32-6005 7 MAY 2001


                                          ATTACHMENT 1

                         DORMITORY OUT-PROCESSING CHECKLIST

A1.1. The following checklist has been provided as a guide for ensuring the successful out-processing of
your dormitory room. Failure to accomplish any of the areas noted below will require the member to make
another out-processing appointment. No dormitory resident will be allowed to depart the dormitory with-
out appropriate manager’s certification of the areas mentioned below:



____Exterior of room must be clean and concrete areas swept.


____Front door must be cleaned and polished (see dormitory manager for polish).


____Windows must be cleaned and streak free inside and out. The screens and window tracks must also
be clean and free of dirt.


____Blinds must be clean and free of dust.


____Drapes must be clean. If they are dirty, remove, and save hooks, pull rods, and screws.
 A fresh set of drapes will be provided to replace old drapes. Old drapes must be placed in a plastic bag
and returned to dormitory management.


____All issued comforters must be placed in a plastic bag and returned to dormitory management. Any
old linens and pillows are yours to keep. If you do not want them, please dispose of them properly.


____Entire floor surface must be vacuumed. Ensure perimeter of room is free from dust and dirt. All
baseboards must be wiped down.


____Tile floor must be clean and free of any heel marks.


____Light fixtures must be clean and free of dust and dead bugs. All burned-out light bulbs must be
replaced. See the dormitory manager for replacement bulbs.


____Ceiling fan unit, to include blades, must be clean and free of dust.


____Walls and ceiling must be free of dust and cobwebs.
SCOTTAFBI32-6005 7 MAY 2001                                                                             11


____All furniture must be clean and free of dust. This step includes the insides of drawers. All uphol-
stered furniture must be clean.


____All lampshades must be wiped down and all stains removed.


____Exterior metal casing of the air conditioning unit must be clean. All mold must be removed from
the vent duct.


____Bathroom areas must be clean and free of mildew and soap scum. Pay special attention to the base
of the toilet (commonly missed area).


____All mirrors must be clean and streak free.


____Countertops and areas beneath the sink must be clean. Wipe out all drawers.


____Wipe out inside of medicine cabinet.


____Refrigerators must be clean and dust free inside and out. This task includes the back of the refriger-
ator. All food must be removed prior to inspection.


____Kitchens, Bldg 1830, must be clean. Special attention should be placed on cleaning inside and
behind the stove and refrigerator.


____Microwave ovens must be clean and grease free.


____All items from bulk storage must be removed.


____All furniture that was previously removed from the room must be returned. This task is a resident
responsibility, and it must be accomplished prior to the inspection.


____Trash cans must be clean.


____A written statement will be provided to dormitory manager regarding any damages to the room or
furnishings.


____Remove your nameplate from outside the room and peel off the letters. Do not remove letters from
“rank” plate. Return both plates to dormitory management.
12                                                                SCOTTAFBI32-6005 7 MAY 2001


A1.2. For questions concerning guidance that is not covered in this checklist, contact dormitory manage-
ment.
