BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE
SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE                                                    INSTRUCTION 32-7001

                                                                             8 DECEMBER 2010
                                                             Certified Current 10 Decemeber 2012
                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                       FISH AND WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 375 CES/CEAN                                                       Certified by: 375 CES/CC
Supersedes: SCOTTAFBI32-7001,                                           (Lt Col Craig P. Johnson)
            3 September 1996                                                              Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 32-70, Environmental Quality, and
establishes policies for the control for hunting, trapping, and fishing on Scott AFB. This
instruction applies to the 375th Air Mobility Wing and all tenant units on Scott AFB. This
instruction applies to the 932d Airlift Wing (AFRES) and the 126th Air Refueling Wing (ANG).
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Management System (AFRIMS) Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/ afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include: Updates organizational names and office symbols. Archery deer and trapping
fees will be collected by the base conservation officer. Fishing rules now extend to Cardinal
Lake in addition to Scott Lake. Several sections were updated in reference to season
designation, fees, number of allowable hunters, archery deer season requirements, prohibition of
firearm for deer and spring turkey hunting, the designated hunting area, tree stands, and trapping
procedures.
 2                                                   SCOTTAFBI32-7001 8 DECEMBER 2010


1. Overview: This instruction provides the guidance for the oversight of the hunting, wildlife,
trapping, and fishing programs on Scott AFB.
     1.1. Wildlife. Can be viewed broadly to include finfish or true fish, as well as shellfish,
     starfish, jellyfish, and other invertebrates such as insects, slugs, and earthworms which are
     important parts of the food chain, in addition to birds, mammals, reptiles, and amphibians
     that are considered as wildlife.
     1.2. Hunting. A person possessing a weapon or being accompanied by a dog for the purpose
     of taking species protected by law in any location such species may inhabit.
     1.3. Trapping. The capture or the attempt to capture, by setting or placing a leg hold trap,
     body gripping trap, cage, live trap or other similar device, permitted by law to capture, hold
     or kill game or furbearing mammals.
     1.4. Fishing. Taking or attempting to take aquatic life in any waters by any method and all
     other acts such as placing, setting, drawing, or using any device commonly used for the
     taking of aquatic life whether resulting in such take or not.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Individual fishers or hunters:
        2.1.1. Will report all game violations set forth in this regulation and Illinois state laws to
        security forces personnel.
        2.1.2. Are responsible for strict compliance with this instruction and Illinois state laws.
     2.2. Base Civil Engineer (BCE) will be responsible for all aspects of the management of fish
     and wildlife on Scott AFB and the development of a 5-year fish and wildlife plan.
     2.3. Outdoor recreation section of the 375th Force Support Squadron (FSS) is responsible for
     taking permit applications, conducting the drawings, collecting fees, and issuing applicable
     permits for fishing within the confines of Scott AFB.
     2.4. The staff judge advocate ensures this instruction is in compliance with DOD, federal,
     state, and local laws.
     2.5. The veterinary treatment facility will advise the 375th Civil Engineer Squadron Pest
     Management (375 CES/CEOIE) on the disposition of wounded and trapped animals and
     wildlife.
     2.6. The 375th Security Forces Squadron (SFS) will enforce this instruction, as well as the
     State of Illinois Fish and Game Laws, within the confines of Scott AFB and they will
     maintain a liaison with state and federal conservation enforcement agencies. The Base
     Conservation Officer will be appointed, by letter, from the 375th Mission Support Group
     (MSG) Commander. Archery deer and trapping fees will be collected by the Base
     Conservation Officer.
3. Removal and Disposition of Injured Wildlife:
     3.1. The 375 SFS will, when necessary and in conjunction with the veterinary office, destroy
     animals that may be injured or diseased.
     3.2. The 375 CES/CEOIE will:
SCOTTAFBI32-7001 8 DECEMBER 2010                                                                3


       3.2.1. Properly dispose of dead animals on base.
       3.2.2. Trap diseased or injured small animals.
   3.3. The Army Veterinary Clinic (US Army/SGV) will, on a case-by-case basis, determine
   the extent of involvement needed by the veterinarian's office.
4. Migratory Game Birds and Animals. Federal rules on migratory birds and animals and the
State of Illinois Game and Fish Codes apply on Scott AFB. Possession of birds or animals
governed by the federal and state codes will be as directed by administrative order of the
Department of the Interior and the State of Illinois. No wildlife shall be in possession in the
confines of Scott AFB.
5. Fees:
   5.1. Will be reviewed annually by the 375th Civil Engineer Squadron Environmental Office
   (375 CES/CEAN) and the 375 FSS, with recommended changes forwarded to the 375 MSG
   Commander as necessary.
   5.2. Will be collected for hunting, fishing, and trapping activities and submitted to the 375th
   Force Support Squadron Non-Appropriated Funds Accounting Office (375 FSS/FSRN).
   Fees are collected into the 57R5095 accounting classification and upon approval, are
   disbursed back to the installation in the 57X5095 appropriation.
6. Boating. Boating on Scott Lake is allowed provided the following guidelines are
followed:
   6.1. Only non-motorized 375 FSS boats are permitted.
   6.2. Boats will be launched in designated areas only.
   6.3. Boats will not be used to carry more people than there are available seats, i.e., canoes -
   two people; pedal boats - two seats, two people; four seats, four people.
   6.4. Boisterous play is not allowed.
   6.5. A Coast Guard-approved life preserver will be available for each boat occupant. All
   occupants must wear a life preserver at all times. Children 12 years and younger must be
   accompanied by someone 16 years or older.
   6.6. Fishing is prohibited from boats.
   6.7. Glass containers are not allowed on boats.
7. Scott Lake Restrictions:
   7.1. Swimming and wading are prohibited. Walking on ice is also prohibited.
   7.2. Discharge of firearms, air guns, CO2 powered guns, or bows of any type are prohibited
   in the Scott Lake Recreation Area.
8. Fishing Take and Limits:
   8.1. All largemouth bass must be immediately released.
   8.2. Taking of fish by seine, spear, bow and arrow, trotline, or any device other than a
   fishing pole or hand line is prohibited in the waters on Scott AFB.
 4                                                     SCOTTAFBI32-7001 8 DECEMBER 2010


     8.3. No person shall use, or have in use, more than two fishing poles or lines.
     8.4. The use of live minnows including, but not limited to, goldfish and carp, is not
     permitted.
     8.5. Daily limit of five catfish. There is no limit on crappie or bluegill.
     8.6. The stocking or placing of any fish, minnow, aquarium fish, or any other species of fish
     from any other source into the Scott and Cardinal Creek Lakes is a violation of the rules and
     regulations of the State of Illinois and is prohibited.
     8.7. All current State of Illinois Fishing Rules and Regulations are applicable for Silver
     Creek.
     8.8. All persons who fish within the confines of Scott AFB must obtain and have on their
     person, a current valid Scott AFB fishing permit from outdoor recreation.
9. Deer Hunting and Permit Procedures:
     9.1. Scott AFB will participate each year in the annual State of Illinois Archery Deer Season;
     season dates and times are determined by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources and
     are published prior to season start. Archery hunting on Scott AFB will adhere to all State of
     Illinois, archery deer hunting rules and regulations. Firearms’ hunting is prohibited at all
     times. The Scott AFB deer archery season will be closed during each of the State of Illinois
     Firearm Deer Seasons in accordance with state law.
     9.2. Scott AFB hunting requests will be reviewed and approved by the Base Conservation
     Officer to active duty military and their dependents, active reservists, and their dependents
     assigned to Scott AFB, military retirees and Department of Defense (DoD) civilians assigned
     to Scott AFB. There will be a $10.00 fee payable at time of issue to Base Conservation
     Officer.
     9.3. Due to the amount of allowable hunting space on Scott AFB, the normal number of
     approved hunters will not be more than 100. The allowable number of hunting tags is subject
     to change on a case-by-case basis and will be decided by the 375 CES/CEAN and the Base
     Conservation Officer. Scott AFB archery tags will be issued by the Base Conservation
     Officer usually starting around 1 August and through to the end of the season, or until 100
     total permits are sold.
        9.3.1. At times, the Mid-America Airport Authority allows Scott AFB hunters to hunt
        Mid-America properties. If this occurs during a particular season, there will be a random
        drawing from the list of Scott AFB hunters and half of these hunters will be allowed to
        hunt on the Mid-America property if they so choose. All Scott AFB hunting rules will
        apply to those hunters allowed to hunt the Mid-America property. If a hunter is drawn
        for the Mid-America properties and chooses to hunt these properties, he/she will only be
        allowed to hunt Mid-America properties for the rest of the season and not hunt on the
        Scott AFB side. This rule will be a season-to-season exception.
     9.4. All persons participating in the Scott AFB archery deer season must have in their
     possession the following:
        9.4.1. A valid Illinois Hunting License with Habitat Stamp.
        9.4.2. A valid Illinois Deer Hunting Tag.
SCOTTAFBI32-7001 8 DECEMBER 2010                                                                  5


      9.4.3. A valid Illinois Hunter Safety Course Card (if required by law).
      9.4.4. Tag to be issued by Base Conservation Officer.
      9.4.5. The Illinois Department of Natural Resources allows two bucks per season.
   9.5. Firearm deer and spring turkey hunting on Scott AFB is strictly prohibited.
   9.6. All deer harvested will be registered through the State of Illinois Department of Natural
   Resources (IL DNR) either on-line at http://dnr.state.il.us/admin/deer.htm or by telephone
   at 1-866-ILCHECK (452-4325). All State of Illinois deer registration and reporting
   procedures are and will remain the responsibility of the individual hunter.
   9.7. The Scott AFB hunting area is the wooded area on the east side of the base. Hunting
   will not be allowed within 200 feet of Scott Lake, 500 feet of South Drive, 100 feet of the
   posted firearm range, or within 200 feet of any building within the authorized hunting area.
   9.8. All hunting will be done from above ground tree stands or ground blinds. All tree
   stands used will be nonpermanent in nature. Nails, screws, or other foreign matter may
   NEVER be put in trees for any reason. Commercially designed, screw-in steps may be used;
   remove all tree stand/ground blind material from all hunting areas at the conclusion of the
   archery deer season.
   9.9. Each person granted the privilege to hunt on Scott AFB is responsible for reporting all
   violations of game laws to the Base Conservation Officer, security forces, or state law
   enforcement agencies.
   9.10. All Illinois State Laws will apply in accordance with Chapter 61 of the Illinois Code.
10. Trapping:
   10.1. Trapping on Scott AFB will be authorized for up to 10 people per season. Personnel
   trapping will adhere to all Illinois State trapping rules and regulations and trapping will be
   limited to the Scott AFB side of Silver Creek and its waterways. NO trapping will be
   allowed in the Scott Lake and Cardinal Lake areas. All personnel trapping will be required
   to register through the Base Conservation Officer.
   10.2. Trapping requests will be reviewed and approved by the Base Conservation Officer.

11. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            MICHAEL J. HORNITSCHEK, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
