BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 34-103
SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                               27 MARCH 2012

                                                                                        Services

                                              OPERATION OF PRIVATELY OWNED VEHICLE
                                                                    (POV) RESALE LOT




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 375 FSS/FSC                                                      Certified by: 375 FSS/CC
                                                                         (Major Benji Jackson)
Supersedes:   SCOTTAFBI34-103,                                                          Pages: 4
              20 November 2000


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction 34-110, Air Force Outdoor Recreation
Programs and Procedures, and establishes policies, procedures, and responsibilities to
standardize the operation and administration of the Privately Owned Vehicle (POV) resale lot
located on Scott AFB. It applies to all members, military and civilian, part-time and full-time
employees or volunteers, and all patrons of the POV resale lot. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Changes 375 SVS/SVRO to 375 FSS/FSCO; explains the purpose of the fees that are
collected; and adds vehicle requirements.

Use: This instruction makes it mandatory to use the POV resale lot for selling any personal
vehicle on Scott AFB. This instruction changes patron responsibilities: Patron is responsible to
 2                                                        SCOTTAFBI34-103 27 MARCH 2012


ensure vehicle is compliant with base vehicle registration polices. Online POV resale lot
registration is available. Instruction requires trailers to be disabled for towing until resold or
removed.
1. Eligibility. Active duty and retired military personnel, their dependents, and DOD civilians
are required to utilize the POV resale lot, for the purpose of selling POVs, motorcycles, all
terrain vehicles, scooters, boats, campers, trailers, or other devices used for personal conveyance
or relocating personal property items.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The 375th Security Forces Squadron (375 SFS) will make spot checks of the lot as time
     permits to check for vandalism or tampering, and will use information on the permits to
     contact owners if vandalism is detected. Citations can be issued to individuals who use the
     facility without permits or with expired permits when first notified by the 375th Force
     Support Squadron Outdoor Recreation (375 FSS/FSCO).
     2.2. The 375 FSS/FSCO will issue permits, collect fees, and keep a list of persons who have
     vehicles for sale at the lot. Fees are established by the 375 FSS Commander. A current fee
     schedule will be maintained at Outdoor Recreation. The resale spaces are not rented. The
     fee is charged to offset non appropriated fund operating costs for administering the spaces
     issued to the vehicle owners.
3. Procedures.
     3.1. Persons who use the resale lot will obtain a Scott AFB Form 12, POV Resale Lot
     Permit, from Outdoor Recreation during normal duty hours. This form will show the name
     of the individual, with home and duty phone number, year and make of the car, boat, camper,
     and recreational vehicles (RV), parking slot number, and expiration date. Registration can be
     made online at www.375fss.com/IA/Auto; registrant must have a printer to register online.
     3.2. Permits will be issued for 1 month with renewal for 1 month if there is no waiting list.
     The lot will not be used as storage for campers when RV Storage lot is full.
     3.3. Patrons will:
        3.3.1. Display a sign (with name and telephone number) on the windshield or rear side
        window of the vehicle, printed registration permit includes this info.
        3.3.2. Make sure the vehicle occupies only the space designated by the POV resale lot
        manager.
        3.3.3. Display a current tag/license on vehicle to be sold. Make sure that the vehicle is
        properly registered and licensed IAW with state laws for the tags displayed on the
        vehicle.
            3.3.3.1. All vehicles are required to be properly licensed and meet state minimum
            insurance requirements to be allowed on Scott AFB. The patron, whose signature is
            on Scott AFB Form 12, is responsible for compliance. Placing vehicles(s) on the
            POV lot does not relieve the owner of state licensing or insurance requirements.
        3.3.4. Be responsible for the housekeeping of the area their vehicle occupies. Ensure the
        vehicle is properly locked and secured. All trailers will be secured with a trailer lock that
        prevents being connected to a towing vehicle until sold or removed.
SCOTTAFBI34-103 27 MARCH 2012                                                           3


     3.3.5. Pay the currently approved administrative fee.
  3.4. Scott AFB and the 375 FSS are not responsible for any damage caused to the vehicles
  while on the POV resale lot. Owners should inform their insurance company of their
  intentions prior to placing the vehicle on the lot.




                                          MICHAEL J. HORNITSCHEK, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 4                                                SCOTTAFBI34-103 27 MARCH 2012


                                   Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Prescribed Forms
SCOTT AFB FORM 12, POV Resale Lot Permit, 7 Oct 2002

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FSS—Force Support Squadron
POC—Privately Owned Vehicle
RV—Recreational Vehicle
SFS—Security Force Squadron
