BY ORDER OF THE 375TH AIRLIFT WING                                            SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE
COMMANDER                                                                       INSTRUCTION 32-1004
                                                                                        18 AUGUST 2006

                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                                   MAINTENANCE OF STRUCTURES
                                                                                AND GROUNDS



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 375 CES/CEOE                                                 Certified by: 375 CES/CD (Mr. Pasek)
Supersedes SCOTTAFBI32-1004,                                                                 Pages: 4
           10 February 2003

This instruction establishes preventive maintenance responsibilities of occupants in buildings and sur-
rounding grounds as required in AFI 32-1001, Operations Management; defines areas of responsibility
for unit commanders; and applies to all personnel assigned/attached to Scott AFB. A conscientious and
continuous program of preventive maintenance is required by occupants and Civil Engineering personnel
to avoid costly repair projects. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication. are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Man-
agement of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at: https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This instruction updates the facility manager’s responsibilities with respect to grounds maintenance; clar-
ifies the role of the Self-Help Store; categorizes the various functions of Civil Engineering Structures and
Grounds; adds Attachment 1, Glossary of References and Supporting Information. A bar (|) indicates
changes since the last edition.


1. General. In accordance with AFI 32-1001, the occupants of facilities will perform maintenance within
their capabilities. Occupants are required to maintain the facilities, equipment, appliances and premises
in good condition (i.e., expected of a property owner). In the interest of efficient use of manpower and
resources, occupants are encouraged to perform minor preventive maintenance within their skill level
which is more economical.
2                                                               SCOTTAFBI32-1004 18 AUGUST 2006


2. Responsibilities. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) is responsible for directing the overall maintenance
of base real property and gives advice/assistance as required. Unit commanders are responsible for polic-
ing the grounds adjacent to and surrounding their facility, and they are encouraged to perform preventive
maintenance of structural facilities within their capability. Unit commanders must appoint a responsible
individual as the facility manager for each of their facilities. A facility manager appointment letter signed
by the organizational commander or representative must be forwarded to the BCE Customer Service Unit
(CSU). The facility manager must ensure building occupants do not abuse the facility. The facility man-
ager will serve as the point of contact (POC) for facility occupants requesting BCE service. Maintenance
and repair requirements should be identified IAW AFI 32-1001.

3. Facility Managers. Facility managers must take an active interest in the upkeep of their facility and
report any problems to the BCE CSU. Preventive maintenance includes, but is not limited to the follow-
ing:
    3.1. Structures.
       3.1.1. General cleaning and upkeep.
       3.1.2. Secure loose boards, siding, carpet tiles or other component parts of the building.
       3.1.3. Perform minor paint jobs when only "touch up" is required. NOTE: Paint must be pur-
       chased through Hazardous Material on AF IMT 3952, Chemical Hazardous Material Request/
       Authorization.
       3.1.4. Replace component parts of a building (light bulbs, ceiling tiles, etc.) when special tools,
       materials, and cutting and fitting are not required.
    3.2. Grounds.
       3.2.1. General upkeep and maintenance of the grounds surrounding the building including the
       streets. Upkeep includes trimming the grass on the curb, sidewalk edges, sweeping the sidewalks
       and removing litter. Minor trimming of hedges and low hanging tree branches is authorized.
       3.2.2. Damage to lawns, trees or shrubs. Personnel who discover damage to lawns, trees, or
       shrubs by disease, insects, animals wind or other damage should report damage to the 375th Civil
       Engineering Squadron/CSU. Prompt action will be taken to prevent further damage or spreading
       to other areas. The burning of insects, pests or other incidents by building occupants is prohibited.
    3.3. Area of Responsibility. Facility managers will be responsible for 50 feet around the building, to
    include garages, trees, islands, ditches, fence lines, etc. These standards apply to all buildings, except
    for vacant buildings that will be maintained by the BCE.
       3.3.1. Joint Responsibility. Areas occupied by more than one organization are the joint responsi-
       bility of all units located within the area. The facility manager will be responsible to establish a
       detail consisting of building occupants. The occupants within the area will resolve all problems
       concerning specific areas of responsibility. The BCE will accomplish periodic inspections of
       organizational areas and report any discrepancies to the 375th Mission Support Group Com-
       mander.

4. Self-Help Work. Facility occupants are welcome to undertake minor construction projects on their
facilities with permission from the BCE. AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, must be sub-
mitted to the BCE for approval prior to the beginning of a self-help project. If self-help construction work
SCOTTAFBI32-1004 18 AUGUST 2006                                                                              3


does not meet base or construction standards, occupants will be required to remove the items and restore
the area to original condition.
   4.1. Self-Help Store. The BCE will ensure the Self-Help Store is stocked, as funding permits, with
   materials that facilities managers can use to maintain their facilities. Materials available are ceiling
   tiles, paint products, pest and insect control items, leaf bags and yard tools. Construction materials
   such as carpet tiles are no longer stocked. Any materials not stocked or available in the Self-Help
   Store must be unit-funded. NOTE: Facility managers must have an approved AF IMT 332 before
   beginning any self-help projects.

5. Refuse/Litter. All personnel will refrain from littering on government property not designated as a lit-
ter receptacle. Litter includes, but is not limited to, privately owned furniture, appliances, paper products,
containers, scraps, automobile parts, shrub and grass trimmings, smoking materials, etc. Facility manag-
ers will be responsible for ensuring litter is policed within their area of responsibility.
   5.1. Off-Base Refuse. Base refuse containers are for Scott AFB only. Appropriate disciplinary
   actions will be taken against personnel who bring refuse from off base and dispose of in the base
   refuse containers.

6. Alteration of Base Real Property. No changes will be made to real property without prior approval
of the BCE on AF IMT 332. Alteration to a structure includes relocating installed property items, addi-
tion or removal of partitions, or permanently affixing objects to a wall, floor or ceiling. Alteration to land-
scaping or grounds includes garden plots, removal or planting trees/shrubs, and modification of lawn
areas and flower beds.

7. Point of Contact. The POC for this instruction is Maintenance Engineering, 618-256-4710.

8. Forms Adopted. AF IMT 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, and AF IMT 3952, Chemical Haz-
ardous Material Request/Authorization.



                                                 FREDERIC. RYDER, Colonel, USAF
                                                 Commander
4                                                   SCOTTAFBI32-1004 18 AUGUST 2006


                                     Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
CSU—Customer Service Unit
POC—Point of Contact
