BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE
SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE                                                    INSTRUCTION 48-107

                                                                               12 AUGUST 2010

                                                                             Aerospace Medicine

                                                              CONTROL OF OCCUPATIONAL
                                                              EXPOSURES TO BLOODBORNE
                                                                       PATHOGENS (BBP)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 375 AMDS/SGPM                                                   Certified by: 375 AMDS/CC
Supersedes: SCOTTAFBI48-107,                                             (Lt Col Alice Chapman)
            14 May 2001                                                                 Pages: 15


This instruction implements AFI 44-108, Infection Control Program and AFI 48-105,
Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Diseases. This instruction establishes program
guidelines and applies to all organizations on Scott AFB, where employees have a potential for
exposure to blood and/or other potentially infectious materials (PIM) as part of their duties. This
primarily involves the 375th Medical Group (MDG) and the 375th Aeromedical Evacuation
Squadron; however, the firefighters and the 375th Security Forces may also have a potential for
exposure. The instruction is applicable to the 932d Airlift Wing (AFRES) and the 126th Air
Refueling Wing (ANG). Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
ttps://www.my. af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command.

This instruction directs the collecting and maintaining of information that is subject to the
Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55, Medical and Dental Care; 10 U.S.C. 8013,
Secretary of the Air Force; 29 CFR 1960, Occupational Illness/Injury Reporting Guidelines for
Federal Agencies; and E.O. 9397(SSN).
 2                                                     SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Program information was updated IAW with AFI 44-108, and AFI 48-105. Identifies
responsibilities; adds a sample workplace Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure Control Plan; and adds
decontamination procedures for blood and body fluid.
1. Overview. Protocol for the uniform management of individuals involved in a percutaneous
(needlestick) or mucous membrane exposure to blood or blood products is defined in this
instruction. Individual work areas must have work-place specific guidelines and training
concerning bloodborne pathogen exposure control. All units on Scott AFB, with employees who
may be exposed, are required to have a copy of 29 CFR 1910.1030 and comply with the
standard.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Unit Commanders of organizations with personnel at risk for occupational exposures
     will:
        2.1.1. Ensure compliance with all applicable aspects of 29 CFR 1910.1030.
        2.1.2. Ensure development of an Exposure Control Plan (ECP) for specific worksites and
        workers affected. (See Attachment 2 for an example/template defining mandatory
        inclusions).
           2.1.2.1. Ensure the ECP is reviewed and updated annually.
           2.1.2.2. Submit the ECP to the 375 MDG Infection Control Officer for review and
           approval.
        2.1.3. Ensure all personnel at risk for occupational exposure to potentially infectious
        material are provided with adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) such as gloves,
        masks, goggles, face shield, rubber aprons, etc. depending on the level of potential
        exposure.
        2.1.4. Ensure all active duty members with potential exposure to BBP receive the
        Hepatitis B immunization series or provide proof of immunity. All civilian employees
        with potential exposure to BBP should be offered the series free of charge. If they
        decline immunization, they will be referred to the 375 MDG Public Health Office to
        complete a declination statement.
        2.1.5. Ensure all appropriate individuals receive initial orientation prior to beginning
        work with potential BBP and receive refresher training annually. All initial and annual
        training should be documented on the employee’s AF Form 55, Employee Safety and
        Health Record or automated training record.
        2.1.6. Designate an office of primary responsibility (OPR) for the workplace BBP
        program. This individual/office will be responsible for developing and maintaining the
        organizational exposure control plan, documenting hepatitis B vaccination of workers,
        monitoring compliance with engineering and work practice controls, ensuring adequate
        supply and use of PPE, ensuring workers are trained, and reporting exposure incidents to
        public health.
SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010                                                                  3


   2.2. Supervisors of personnel potentially exposed to BBP will:
       2.2.1. Ensure compliance with all aspects of this directive.
       2.2.2. Ensure workers report all potential exposures and refer personnel to the 375 MDG
       Flight Medicine Office after initial first aid is accomplished.
       2.2.3. Enforce the use of PPE and standard precautions when workers may come in
       contact with BBP.
   2.3. The 375 MDG will:
       2.3.1. Provide the Hepatitis B vaccine series or serological testing of immunity for
       eligible workers potentially exposed to BBP.
       2.3.2. Provide consultation and technical assistance to unit commanders, supervisors, and
       workers on control of BBP.
       2.3.3. Provide initial assessment and follow-up for workers who have known or
       suspected exposure to infectious materials. This will include a written medical opinion
       on the potential risks of the specific exposure.
       2.3.4. Maintain records of all exposure incidents and ensure reporting to the 375 AMW
       Ground Safety Office using the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
       300 Log. If any trends or problem areas are noted, an evaluation of PPE and work-
       practice controls will be accomplished with the unit supervisor.
   2.4. Workers with potential exposure to BBP will:
       2.4.1. Use appropriate PPE when indicated by the potential for exposure to BBP.
       2.4.2. Report any exposure to BBP to their supervisor, and comply with any necessary
       assessments and follow-up.
       2.4.3. Complete initial and annual BBP training.
3. Procedures for exposure to potential BBP: If a worker has unprotected exposure to a blood
or body fluid:
   3.1. The exposed surface should be IMMEDIATELY washed with soap and warm water for
   at least 15 minutes or flushed with copious amounts of water if soap is contraindicated (as in
   eye exposures).
   3.2. The exposed worker must notify their supervisor and report to the flight medicine clinic
   as quickly as possible. The worker will be evaluated at the flight medicine clinic to
   determine if they are a candidate for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Post-Exposure
   Prophylaxis medication. This medication is most effective if given in 1 to 2 hours after
   exposure. If the exposure occurs after normal duty hours, the worker should go to the nearest
   emergency room as quickly as possible for evaluation and treatment.
   3.3. The worker must also report to the 375 MDG Public Health Office after he or she has
   been evaluated. The public health office must be notified the next duty day for follow-up if
   the worker was evaluated in an emergency room or a civilian clinic.
   3.4. Contact information for the source of the blood or body fluid should be identified to
   facilitate any needed testing and/or follow-up.
4                                                  SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010


    3.5. Testing and treatment will be accomplished IAW the most current recommendations
    from the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention.




                                        MICHAEL J. HORNITSCHEK, Col, USAF
                                        Commander
SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010                                                                5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFI 44-108, Infection Control, 1 July 2000
AFI 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health
or Military Significance, 1 March 2005
AFI 48-135, Human Immunodeficiency Virus Program, 12 May 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Title 10 U.S.C., Chapter 44, Medical and Dental Care, 5 January 2009
Title 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force, Powers and Duties, Delegation By, 24 January
2002
OSHA, 29 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to
Bloodborne Pathogens; Needlesticks and Other Sharps Injuries; Final Rule, 6 March 1992
OSHA, 29 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 1910.1030Subpart Z, Bloodborne
Pathogens, 6 March 1992
Protection against Viral Hepatitis, CDC/MMWR/ACIP, 9 February 1990
Guidelines for Prevention of Human Immunodeficiency Virus and Hepatitis B Virus to Health
Care and Public Safety Workers, CDC/MMWR, 23 June 1989
U.S. Public Health Service Guidelines for the Management of Occupational Exposures to HBV,
HCV, and HIV and Recommendations for Postexposure Prophylaxis, CDC/MMWR, 23 June
2001
Hepatitis B Immunization Policy Letter, HQ USAF, 20 May 96
Hepatitis B Immunization Policy for AF Medical and Dental Personnel, HQ USAF, 13
September 2003

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BBP—Bloodborne Pathogen
CDC—Centers for Disease
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
ECP—Exposure Control Plan
HIV—Human Immunodeficiency Virus
MDG—Medical Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
 6                                                        SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010


PPE—Personnel Protective Equipment

Terms
Blood—human blood, human blood components, and products made from human blood.
Bloodborne Pathogens—pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood and can
cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not limited to, hepatitis B virus
(HBV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Clinical Laboratory—a workplace where diagnostic or other screening procedures are
performed on blood or other potentially infectious materials.
Contaminated—the presence or the reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other
potentially infectious materials on an item or surface.
Contaminated Sharps—any contaminated object that can penetrate the skin including, but not
limited to, needles, scalpels, broken glass, broken capillary tubes, and exposed ends of dental
wires.
Decontamination—the use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or destroy
bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item to the point where they are no longer capable of
transmitting infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use, or
disposal.
Engineering Controls—controls (e.g., sharps disposal containers, self-sheathing needles, safer
medical devices, such as sharps with engineered sharps injury protections and needleless
systems) that isolate or remove the bloodborne pathogens hazard from the workplace.
Exposure Incident—a specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or
parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that results from the
performance of an employee's duties.
Handwashing Facilities—a facility providing an adequate supply of running potable water, soap
and single use towels or hot air drying machines.
HBV—hepatitis B virus.
HIV—human immunodeficiency virus.
Occupational Exposure—reasonably anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane, or parenteral
contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that may result from the performance
of an employee's duties.
Other Potentially Infectious Materials—(1) The following human body fluids: semen, vaginal
secretions, cerebrospinal fluid, synovial fluid, pleural fluid, pericardial fluid, peritoneal fluid,
amniotic fluid, saliva in dental procedures, any body fluid that is visibly contaminated with
blood, and all body fluids in situations where it is difficult or impossible to differentiate between
body fluids; (2) Any unfixed tissue or organ (other than intact skin) from a human (living or
dead); and (3) HIV-containing cell or tissue cultures, organ cultures, and HIV- or HBV-
containing culture medium or other solutions; and blood, organs, or other tissues from
experimental animals infected with HIV or HBV.
SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010                                                                  7


Personal Protective Equipment—is specialized clothing or equipment worn by an employee
for protection against a hazard. General work clothes (e.g., uniforms, pants, shirts or blouses)
not intended to function as protection against a hazard are not considered to be personal
protective equipment.
Regulated Waste—liquid or semi-liquid blood or other potentially infectious materials;
contaminated items that would release blood or other potentially infectious materials in a liquid
or semi-liquid state if compressed; items that are caked with dried blood or other potentially
infectious materials and are capable of releasing these materials during handling; contaminated
sharps; and pathological and microbiological wastes containing blood or other potentially
infectious materials.
Source Individual—any individual, living or dead, whose blood or other potentially infectious
materials may be a source of occupational exposure to the employee. Examples include, but are
not limited to, hospital and clinic patients; clients in institutions for the developmentally
disabled; trauma victims; clients of drug and alcohol treatment facilities; residents of hospices
and nursing homes; human remains; and individuals who donate or sell blood or blood
components.
Sterilize—the use of a physical or chemical procedure to destroy all microbial life including
highly resistant bacterial endospores.
Universal Precautions—an approach to infection control. According to the concept of
Universal Precautions, all human blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to
be infectious for HIV, HBV, and other bloodborne pathogens.
Work Practice Controls—controls that reduce the likelihood of exposure by altering the
manner in which a task is performed (e.g., prohibiting recapping of needles by a two-handed
technique)
 8                                                SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010


                                   Attachment 2
          TEMPLATE FOR WORKPLACE EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN

Figure A2.1. Sample Workplace Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure Control Plan.
SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010   9
10   SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010
SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010   11
12   SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010
SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010                                                                 13




A2.1. Note: This sample plan is provided only as a guide to assist in complying with 29
CFR 1910.1030, … Bloodborne Pathogens Standard. It is not intended to supersede the
requirements detailed in the standard.
A2.2. Commanders should review the standard for particular requirements which are applicable
to their specific situation or workplace and add any relevant information necessary to develop an
effective, comprehensive exposure control plan. Add or subtract from this sample plan as
appropriate. Delete sections that do not pertain to the work area covered by this specific plan.
A2.3. The Exposure Control Plan (ECP) must be reviewed at least annually and updated when
necessary.
 14                                                      SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010


                                          Attachment 3
       DECONTAMINATION PROCEDURES FOR BLOOD AND BODY FLUIDS

A3.1. The following procedures are recommended for “site specific” clean-up of spills
involving blood or body fluids. Five percent (5%) household bleach is used, but any
disinfectant used must be approved by the 375 MDG Infection Control Review Function.
A3.2. Make a “spill kit” readily available for site cleanup. Place one half cup of household
bleach in a dark brown or opaque bottle (sunlight will breakdown bleach). Put the bleach, one
gallon of water (don’t mix the two until you clean up the spill), one pair of heavyweight,
puncture-resistant utility gloves, such as those used for housecleaning and dishwashing, two
household sponges, and paper towels or gauze in a plastic container or a box. Label the kit,
attach a hazardous material sticker to the container, and place in an area where a spill may occur
or in the trunk of a security vehicle, etc. Also, have the following available for large spills or
spills that have the potential for splattering:
   A3.2.1. Clothing. Use cloth or disposable gowns/coats to prevent blood contamination of
   clean-up workers’ clothing. A disposable plastic apron that covers the torso and thighs is
   recommended if there is a significant probability that blood or body fluids may be splattered
   onto the clean-up workers. At the completion of clean-up, discard disposable apron into the
   biohazard waste bag.
   A3.2.2. Facial Protection. Wear facial protection if splattering of blood or body fluids is
   anticipated. A disposable mask offers protection for the nose and mouth. Plastic, wrap-
   around safety glasses offer adequate protection; however, if there is substantial risk of
   splattering of blood or body fluids, wear a full-face shield or goggles. Ordinary glasses do
   not offer adequate protection against splattering. After the completion of clean-up, discard
   disposable facial protection into a biohazard waste bag.
   A3.2.3. Shoe Covers. If the spill is large and/or there is a potential of contaminating the
   worker’s shoes, wear waterproof shoe covers.
A3.3. Do not pick up contaminated sharp objects by hand. If the spill contains broken glass
or other sharp objects, these must be picked up without direct contact with hands. Use metal
tongs, a broom and dustpan, or rigid sheets of cardboard as a “pusher” and “receiver” to pick up
objects. Place sharp objects into a puncture-resistant container prior to placing into a biohazard
waste bag.
A3.4. Absorb the spill. Absorb the bulk of spilled material prior to disinfection with
disposable, absorbent material (paper towels, gauze pads, or if a small spill, a sponge). If the
spill is large, granular absorbent material-like that used to absorb caustic chemical spills-may be
used (i.e., kitty litter). Blot (do not wipe up) the spill allowing the fluids to be absorbed by the
towels, etc. After absorption of the liquid, discard all materials into a biohazard waste bag.
A3.5. Mix the one half cup of bleach with one gallon of water. Flood the site or wipe down
the spill site with disposable towels or sponge soaked in bleach to make the site “glistening wet.”
Allow the bleach solution to remain in contact with the infectious material for 20 minutes. This
disinfecting solution is approximately a 1:10 dilution of household bleach. Larger or smaller
solutions may be made following this dilution rate. (Note: Chlorine bleach is only safe for use
SCOTTAFBI48-107 12AUGUST 2010                                                                15


on non porous materials that will not discolor with bleach. It should not be used on electronics
or other surfaces that may be altered by the application of bleach.)
A3.6. Absorb the disinfectant with paper towels and dispose of the paper towels in a
biohazard waste bag. Alternatively, the spill site may be permitted to air dry.
A3.7. Rinse the spill site with water to remove a chemical residue. Dry the site to prevent
slipping.
A3.8. Place all disposable materials used in the decontamination process into a biohazard
waste bag. Dispose of the remaining disinfectant by pouring down the sanitary sewer.
Decontaminate reusable materials and equipment following the above procedures.
A3.9. If clothing becomes contaminated with blood or body fluids, it should be removed as soon
as possible, the skin washed with soap and water, and the clothing placed in a biohazard waste
bag and disposed of or cleaned by a laundry capable of handling blood-contaminated clothing.
