BY ORDER OF THE                                                      SCOTT AFB INSTRUCTION 65-501
INSTALLATION COMMANDER                                                                29 FEBRUARY 2000

                                                                                    Financial Management

                                                           RENT VERSUS BUY ANALYSIS PROGRAM




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 375 AW/FMA (MSgt Joseph M Arterburn)                                       Certified by: 375 AW/FMA
                                                                                    (Ms. Patricia A. Difatta)
Supersedes SAFBI 65-501, 2 Dec 94                                                                   Pages: 3
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This instruction establishes the Scott AFB Rent Versus Buy Analysis Program to enhance financial man-
agement and applies to all organizations that use AMC-allotted appropriated funds to rent/lease equip-
ment.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision takes into account the use of the International Merchant Purchase Authorization Card
(IMPAC) for equipment rental transactions.


1. Policy. We must obtain maximum benefits from each expenditure of government funds. In general,
renting or leasing of equipment is more costly than purchase and should be done only under extenuating
circumstances. The intent of this instruction is to ensure only senior officials make such decisions and
only after they are made aware of the additional costs associated with that decision. All rentals with an
anticipated requirement over 60 days duration must be coordinated through the Wing Financial Analysis
Office (375 AW/FMA). A rent versus buy analysis must be completed prior to rental of any equipment
over 60 days. Rent versus buy comparison requirements apply to rentals of nonexpendable equipment
items using AMC-allotted appropriated funds. However, a rent versus buy cost comparison can be com-
pleted on any item of equipment if deemed necessary by the purchase request approval authority. This
analysis or an exemption letter must accompany an AF Form 9, Request for Purchase, to Contracting or
be on file for IMPAC transactions. During emergency situations, rentals can be authorized without a rent
versus buy analysis being performed. The Wing Commander or designee will approve rentals that fall
within this category. Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) activities which use appropriated AMC funds for
equipment leases are subject to the guidelines of this instruction. Other rentals, including rentals of equip-
ment from General Services Administration (GSA) and/or Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) contract sched-
ules, are NOT exempt from the analysis requirement.
2                                                            SCOTTAFBI65-501 29 FEBRUARY 2000


2. Procedures:
    2.1. The initiating activity responsibilities:
        2.1.1. Coordinate equipment rental with the Equipment Management Element (EME) in Base
        Supply. Even though 375 AW/FMA is responsible for completing a thorough rent versus buy anal-
        ysis in paragraph 2.2.2. below, EME personnel will perform a preliminary evaluation. This step
        involves a simple comparison of the item cost versus rental cost listed on the request. Also, EME
        personnel will check for excess equipment that is available for issue.
        2.1.2. Obtain approval from the Base Civil Engineer on all rental equipment requiring connection
        to water, electric or gas utilities, building alterations, etc.
        2.1.3. Provide all criteria and cost data, including source of data to 375 AW/FMA. Include rent/
        purchase option data if this option is to be considered.
        2.1.4. Coordinate the criteria and cost data with Base Supply, Contracting, and Comptroller to
        ensure the data is as factual as possible.
    2.2. The 375 AW/FMA responsibilities:
        2.2.1. Validate all costs.
        2.2.2. Perform an analysis of the requirement to determine the most cost-effective means of meet-
        ing the objectives. Bottom-line analysis will be a comparison of the total cost to rent for the anal-
        ysis period, versus the total cost to buy for the analysis period, versus the total cost of the rent/
        purchase option for the analysis period.
            2.2.2.1. Base the analysis period on either the total projected time period the equipment will
            be required or the economic life of the item, whichever is shorter. For example: A 1-year
            copier lease is proposed, but the total analysis is based on the total requirement period (5
            years), NOT on the 1-year lease requested. Even if fund availability dictates requesting a
            shorter rental period than the item is actually required for, the cost comparison analysis must
            be accomplished for the full duration of the actual requirement or economic life, whichever is
            shorter (assume lease price will be the same for option years if given the rental cost for only 1
            year). When the time frame used in the analysis lapses, a new rent versus buy analysis must be
            performed for the new period of time.
            2.2.2.2. Include in the analysis the costs of installing the equipment, maintaining the equip-
            ment for the entire period covered by the rent versus buy comparison, and removing the equip-
            ment upon completion of the requirement.
        2.2.3. Provide the results of the analysis to the originator showing whether it is more cost-effec-
        tive to purchase or rent. The 375 AW/FMA is not the approving authority for the rent versus buy
        decision.
            2.2.3.1. Return the request to the originator with one copy of the rent versus buy analysis for
            conversion to purchase or for proper justification and approval of the appropriate official to
            rent/lease if the purchase cost is less. If 375 AW/FMA determines procurement is more cost
            effective and justification to rent is not approved, resubmit the request to the EME to establish
            equipment accountability.
            2.2.3.2. If the rental/lease cost is less than purchase, 375 AW/FMA will return the rental
SCOTTAFBI65-501 29 FEBRUARY 2000                                                                        3


        request with two copies of the rent versus buy analysis to the originator.
     2.2.4. When purchase cost is less than the rental/lease cost, the Wing Commander or designee, as
     appropriate, must approve written justification from the initiating activity, to permit the Contract-
     ing activity to rent the equipment. If the rental is pursued, the initiator will forward the approved
     rental justification and rent versus buy analysis to the Contracting activity, with a copy of the
     approved justification to 375 AW/FMA.



                                                   JOHN D. WEIDERT, Lt Col, USAF
                                                   Comptroller
