BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                    SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 31-102
SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                           19 OCTOBER 2009
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 12 December 2011

                                                                                         Security

                                              WINGS OF EAGLES IDENTIFICATION CARD
                                                                     PROGRAM (PA)


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 375 AMW/PA                                                      Certified by: 375 AMW/DS
                                                                                  (Joyce Shively)
                                                                                         Pages: 5


This instruction implements AFI 35-105, Public Affairs Community Relations, AFI 31-101,
Integrated Defense (FOUO), and the Air Mobility Command and Scott AFB Supplements. This
instruction establishes procedures for the Wings of Eagles Identification Card Program managed
by 375th Air Mobility Wing Public Affairs (AMW/PA) and applies to all units and/or personnel
sponsoring distinguished civic leaders onto Scott AFB. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.                Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change clarifies the process for implementing the Wings of Eagles Id Card Program.
Card supplies will be maintained by base law enforcement. Cards will be processed in
accordance with the security system currently in use. These cards will not be issued to facilitate
business solicitation. Updates the 375th Airlift Wing (AW) to the 375th Air Mobility Wing
(AMW). A margin bar indicates newly revised material.
1. Overview. The Wings of Eagles Identification Card Program facilitates base entry for
distinguished civic leaders to attend on-base events, meetings, and special functions hosted by
the installation or a tenant commander.
 2                                                     SCOTTAFBI31-102 19 OCTOBER 2009


2. Responsibilities. The Wings of Eagles Identification Card Program is a cooperative effort
between the 375th Security Forces Squadron (375 SFS) and 375th Air Mobility Wing PA (375
AMW/PA). Both units are responsible for maintaining and executing the program successfully.
     2.1. The 375 AMW/PA will:
        2.1.1. Educate all civic leaders on the Wings of Eagles Identification Card Program.
        2.1.2. Identify civic leaders and provide a list of their full names to 375 SFS Pass and
        Registration. This list will be updated annually and maintained on file for a period of 1
        year.
        2.1.3. Notify 375 SFS Pass and Registration of any additions, deletions, or changes to the
        civic leaders list.
        2.1.4. Coordinate all logistics for civic leaders to receive their Wings of Eagles
        Identification Cards.
        2.1.5. Amend and/or update the Wings of Eagles Identification Card Program policy
        supplement, as needed. All changes must be reviewed and approved by 375 SFS.
        2.1.6. DELETED.
        2.1.7. Act as the sponsor for eligible Wings of Eagles Identification Card recipients.
        Identify alternate valid sponsors for Wings of Eagles Identification Card recipients
        granted as an exception by the installation commander.
        2.1.8. Enforce base security measures by maintaining positive control of the recipient list
        for the Wings of Eagles Identification Card limiting the issue of cards to approximately
        100 individuals or less.
2.2. The 375 SFS will:
        2.2.1. Provide eligible civic leaders with Wings of Eagles Identification Cards. These
        cards will follow all protocol and be entered into the security system currently in use.
        2.2.2. Ensure civic leaders understand installation entry requirements and procedures
        during normal and increased force protection conditions affecting Scott AFB.
        2.2.3. Provide opportunities for civic leaders to obtain passes. These opportunities are to
        consist of walk-in appointments at the visitors control center during the facility’s normal
        operating hours.
        2.2.4. Maintain and update the database of civic leaders’ personal information for
        installation entry requirements in accordance with IAW AFI 31-101 and the AMC and
        Scott AFB Supplements.
        2.2.5. Ensure all SFS members are trained on the entry procedures for the Wings of
        Eagles Identification Card Program.
        2.2.6. Immediately notify 375 AMW/PA of any changes to installation entry
        requirements that impact the Wings of Eagles Identification Program.
3. Procedures. Civic leaders will obtain their Wings of Eagles Identification Cards through
walk-in appointments with the 375 SFS Pass and Registration Office at the Visitors Control
Center. Cards will be granted only to those civic leaders identified by the 375 AMW/PA as
SCOTTAFBI31-102 19 OCTOBER 2009                                                                      3


eligible recipients. Only one card will be granted per civic leader; requests for multiple cards
will be denied. The following guidelines outline the procedures used to maintain and execute the
program.
3.1. The Wings of Eagles Identification Card is valid for a 1-year period effective from date of
issue.
   3.2. The Wings of Eagles Identification Card grants civic leaders access to unrestricted base
   facilities. All card recipients must comply with installation entry requirements outlined in
   Scott AFB Supplement to AFI 31-101, and must sign their consent to vehicle searches upon
   the request of 375 SFS. The Wings of Eagles Identification Card is not valid without
   recipient’s signature.
   3.3. The Wings of Eagles Identification Card will be the sole requirement for base entry
   under normal force protection conditions. The installation commander reserves the sole
   authority to authorize acceptance of cards for base entry privileges under higher force
   protection conditions or under heighted security measures.
   3.4. Civic leaders must show a valid drivers’ license to obtain the Wings of Eagles
   Identification Card; however, the license will not be requested again by 375 SFS unless
   security measures warrant such action. Because such actions may be required with little to
   no notice, civic leaders will be instructed to have a valid drivers’ license, vehicle registration,
   and proof of insurance available at all times when visiting the base.
   3.5. The Wings of Eagles Identification Card will include a photo of the civic leader. Photos
   will be taken when civic leaders register or re-register for their Wings of Eagles
   Identification Cards.
   3.6. The 375 AMW/PA and/or the event coordinator will assume escort responsibilities
   while participants are visiting the installation. Civic leaders attempting to use old decals to
   gain base entry will be referred to 375 AMW/PA.
4. Eligibility.
   4.1. Civic leaders will be identified by the 375 AMW/PA based upon current community
   outreach initiatives. The 375 AMW/PA is the point of contact for all enrollment
   qualifications for the Wings of Eagles Identification Card Program. Criteria for eligibility
   include:
       4.1.1. Involvement and/or participation in public affairs programs.
       4.1.2. Documented record of support to the base, tenant units, or its personnel.
       4.1.3. Demonstrated need for base entry privileges to attend regularly scheduled (i.e.,
       weekly, monthly, etc.) meetings and/or social functions hosted by the installation or a
       tenant commander.
   4.2. Individuals who do not meet the eligibility criteria above must direct requests for base
   entry privileges to 375 SFS.
   4.3. Wings of Eagles Identification Cards will not be granted to individuals to conduct
   business solicitation on base or for those who wish to do so.
4                                                     SCOTTAFBI31-102 19 OCTOBER 2009


    4.4. Individuals who work with private organizations affiliated with the installation and
    require base entry privileges must direct their requests to the 375 SFS. The 375 SFS will
    determine if the individual is eligible for a base entry pass. A representative with base access
    privileges from the private organization may be required to sponsor the civic leader onto the
    installation.
    4.5. Prior participation in the Wings of Eagles Identification Card Program will not be
    considered sufficient justification for continuing to grant past recipients an identification
    card.
    4.6. Wings of Eagles Identification Cards are not to be issued to individuals to circumvent
    force protection measures or for reasons of convenience. Individuals not meeting program
    eligibility requirements may be able to obtain base access by other means such as a special
    events pass, contractor pass, or through a valid sponsor.
    4.7. Eligibility criteria are subject to change per the installation commander’s direction or to
    meet community relations objectives.
    4.8. The installation commander is the final approval authority to grant Wings of Eagles
    Identification Cards. Authority to grant cards to individuals not meeting the eligibility
    criteria above is reserved to the installation commander.




                                              MICHAEL J. HORNITSCHEK, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
SCOTTAFBI31-102 19 OCTOBER 2009                                                       5


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program (FOUO)
AFI 31-101, AMC Supplements The Air Force Installation Security Program (FOUO)
AFI31-101, Scott AFB Supplement, The Air Force Installation Security Program (FOUO)
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures
375th Airlift Wing Installation Security Plan

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AW—Airlift Wing
PA—Public Affairs
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
