BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                     SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE
SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE                                                             INSTRUCTION 90-101
                                                                                          17 MARCH 2008

                                                                                    Specialty Management

                                                                    SEVERE WEATHER OPERATIONS



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 375 MSG/CCE                                      Certified by: 375 MSG/CC (Col Bradley D. Spacy)
Supersedes SAFBI 90-101, 10 August 2001                                                      Pages: 4

This instruction establishes procedures for curtailing certain base activities and the release of personnel
during periods of severe weather conditions. The provisions of this instruction apply to all units to include
tenant units located on Scott Air Force Base (AFB) IL. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to
AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include:
Replaced Support Group (SPTG) with Mission Support Group (MSG), adjusted duty day hours, use of
airman rather than personnel, replaced Quick Reaction Capability (QRC) with checklist, inserted mention
of early release procedures at Child Development Center (CDC) and youth center, and minor grammatical
issues.


1. General. The intent of this instruction is to enhance the safety of all Scott AFB-related personnel dur-
ing severe weather conditions.

2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. The 375th Mission Support Group Commander (375 MSG/CC) monitors the weather for poten-
   tial severe situations; when conditions warrant, advises the 375th Airlift Wing Commander (AW/CC)
   to reduce, limit, or cancel base activities; notifies the 375 AW Command Post (CP) and 375 AW Pub-
   lic Affairs (PA) of changes to base activities.
2                                                                SCOTTAFBI90-101 17 MARCH 2008


    2.2. The 375 AW/CC makes the final determination to modify base activities due to severe weather
    situations and advises other senior leaders on Scott AFB of the intent to modify base activities.
    2.3. Tenant unit command sections modify activities as operations allow.
    2.4. The 375 AW/CP implements the appropriate checklist when directed, makes the required notifi-
    cations, and updates/adds information to the Commanders’ Access Channel as required. Upon notifi-
    cation of severe weather, the 375 AW/CP will initiate a conference with all the 375 AW Group
    Commanders to inform them to take appropriate action.
    2.5. The 375 AW/PA notifies previously designated radio and television stations of the specific
    changes to base activities when instructed by the 375 MSG/CC. At least twice a year, spring and fall,
    the 375 AW/PA will publish a current list in the Command Post and on the Commanders’ Access
    Channel of those stations that will make requested broadcasts during severe weather periods. They
    will also place appropriate announcements or information on the Scott AFB Information Line as
    required.
    2.6. All units who will be notified via the checklist (paragraph 2.4.) are to ensure the 375 AW/CP has
    current points of contact (POC) and phone numbers for contacts. The POCs will establish procedures
    for quickly relaying required information to all their personnel and pre-identify those personnel con-
    sidered “mission-essential.” This may be done by and established policy such as operating instruc-
    tions, squadron directives, or other suitable means. During duty hours, they will immediately notify
    unit personnel when advised of changes to base activities caused by severe weather. During non-duty
    hours, they will inform unit personnel of applicable changes to base activities and advise those whose
    services are required when to report for duty.

3. Procedures:
    3.1. Normal Duty Hours (generally Mon-Fri, 0700-1630). Upon official notification of a change to
    base activities, unit commanders and supervisors will notify employees of the specific guidance and
    provide adequate explanation as to how it affects their particular situation. For example, if an early
    dismissal of employees is directed, the commander and supervisor will release those personnel whose
    services are not considered “mission-essential” according to the schedule provided in the notification.
    3.2. Non-duty Hours. One of two messages will be distributed over the base notification system as
    directed in paragraphs 2.4., 2.5., and 2.6., of this instruction:
       3.2.1. “Delayed reporting is granted to Scott AFB employees.” The purpose for delayed reporting
       during hazardous weather conditions is to allow base personnel additional time for safe travel to
       the base. It is not automatic authorization to report two hours late for duty. Delayed reporting
       applies to airmen and civilians, and leave will not be charged.
           3.2.1.1. In the event delayed reporting is granted, morning gate volunteers need to report 30
           minutes prior to the newly established reporting time.
       3.2.2. “Only mission-essential personnel are to report to work at Scott AFB.” This means only
       those workers who are identified by their commander as “mission-essential” will report to work.
       In this situation, civilian employees not directed to report will be placed on administrative leave as
       granted by the installation commander. For airmen, everyone whose services are not required will
       be placed on telephone standby until further notice.
SCOTTAFBI90-101 17 MARCH 2008                                                                          3


  3.3. The following procedures will apply when the decision to close nonessential base facilities is
  decided:
     3.3.1. School buses will not operate.
     3.3.2. The 375 AW/PA will place appropriate announcements on the Scott AFB Information Line
     and release the notification from the 375 MSG/CC to the designated radio and television stations
     that have agreed to broadcast announcements.
     3.3.3. The 375 AW/CP will notify the units contained in checklist #18, Natural Disaster-Severe
     Weather, and provide them with the current situation and forecast.
     3.3.4. The commissary will follow the guidance in this instruction. The commissary officer may
     elect to keep the commissary open for up to two hours after the installation’s release time accord-
     ing to their Employee Dismissal Policy Letter 50-3.
     3.3.5. During early release, all non-mission essential personnel need to pick up their children from
     the CDC and youth center immediately. During mission essential only reporting, only those chil-
     dren of designated mission essential personnel are allowed to be dropped off at the CDC and youth
     center.



                                             ALAN L. HUNT, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 375th Airlift Wing
4                                                      SCOTTAFBI90-101 17 MARCH 2008


                                        Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AW—Airlift Wing
CC—Commander
CDC—Child Development Center
CP—Command Post
MSG—Mission Support Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Public Affairs
POC—Point of Contact
QRC—Quick Reaction Capability
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SPTG—Support Group
