BY ORDER OF THE 375TH AIRLIFT WING                      SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE PAMPHLET 33-101
COMMANDER                                                                                   22 JULY 2005
                                                                         Certified Current on 27 July 2011
                                                                        Communications and Information

                                                             CONTENT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM—
                                                             PUBLICATIONS (LOCAL PROCEDURES)




NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 375 CS/SCBIP (Mr. Hockaday)                              Certified by: 375 CS/SCBIP (Mrs. Thomas)
Supersedes SCOTTAFBPAM33-101,                                                                   Pages: 3
           30 June 2003.                                                                 Distribution: F

This pamphlet is informational and provides guidance to the 375th Airlift Wing staff agencies on proce-
dures for implementation of local policies on Scott AFB. Maintain and dispose of records according to the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, accessible on-line at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changes the term form to Information Management Tools (IMT); updates the Scott AFB
Publishing Website’s URL; updates Electronic Transaction System Procedures to e-Publishing Website
Procedures; updates the ordering method for Physical Products and On-Line Ordering Procedures used on
the e-Publishing Website; adds a mandatory statement on disposition of records on all publications. A bar
( | ) indicates a revision from the previous edition.


1. Objective. The goal of Scott AFB Publishing is to publish and disseminate local policies and proce-
dures and provide Internet accessibility through the Scott and e-Publishing Websites.

2. Local Procedures. Scott AFB offices of primary responsibility (OPR) who author base-level publica-
tions are responsible for ensuring their publications remain current and accurate. The OPRs are fully
responsible for the content of their publications. If a new or revised publication is required, the following
procedures apply:
   2.1. Draft publications must be written in Microsoft Word 6.0, Times New Roman, 12-pitch.
   2.2. Select a functional series and title from AFI 33-360, Vol 1, Content Management Program-Pub-
   lications, Atch 8 (Series, Number, Title and Description).
   2.3. Complete AF IMT 673, Request To Issue Publication, and coordinate with all staff agencies
   that have a functional interest; refer to AFI 33-360, Vol 1, Table 3.1., for minimum mandatory coordi-
   nation requirements. NOTE: The OPR must ensure Records Management and Staff Judge Advocate
   offices coordinate on local publications prior to submitting the documentation to Base Publishing.
2                                                               SCOTTAFBPAM33-101 22 JULY 2005


    Publications will be routed to applicable group commanders for coordination and disseminated to
    squadron-level OPRs as appropriate. NOTE: AF IMTs 673, Block 17, should be certified at one orga-
    nizational level above the OPR and approved (Block 21) by the level of command reflected in AFI
    33-360, Vol 1_SCOTTAFBSUP1.
    2.4. Draft publications that solicit Privacy Act (PA) data must include a PA Warning Statement after
    the Purpose Statement.
    2.5. All publications must include the following disposition statement of records in the purpose state-
    ment: Maintain and dispose of records according to the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule,
    accessible on-line at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.
    2.6. If publications require 375 AW/CC coordination, they will be routed through the Publishing
    chain of command as follows: 375 CS/SCB, 375 CS/CC, 375 MSG/CC, and 375 AW/CC/CV. NOTE:
    Do not send publications directly to the 375 AW/CC.
    2.7. If graphics are required in the publication, a separate file must be created for each embedded
    graphic.
    2.8. The OPR will forward an electronic copy of the draft publication, a copy of each embedded
    graphics file, and original copies of AF IMTs 673 with the proper certifying/approving officials’ sig-
    natures to Base Publishing for final approval and publication.

3. Content Management-Publications Office Responsibilities.
    3.1. The Content Manager-Base Publishing Manager reviews the new/revised publication to ensure
    proper coordination is completed (including Content Manager-IMT/Records Management/Staff Judge
    Advocate coordination); assigns a control number.
    3.2. Ensures the OPRs have assigned the correct series and title; references are current; and content is
    understandable.
    3.3. If IMTs are prescribed in the publication, ensure they are listed in the publication.
    3.4. Determines whether the publication is new, revised or supersedes an existing publication; ensures
    the publication is not less restrictive than the functional Air Force directive or duplicative in nature.
    3.5. Processes the publication through the appropriate chain of command.
    3.6. After chain of command approval, publication is loaded on the official on-line source for publi-
    cations at: https://private.scott.amc.af.mil/375aw/375msg/375cs/scb/pub/scbi.htm.
    3.7. Prepares the official publication in the Standard Generalized Mark-Up Language format (Air
    Force standard) for integration into the Air Force Master Catalog.
    3.8. Forwards a finalized copy of the publication to the OPR to update their files for future revisions.
    3.9. Reviews tagged publications for errors that have been returned from the Air Force contractor and
    returns publications with errors to the contractor via HQ AMC. Loads the error-free tagged publica-
    tions on the Scott Publishing Website in place of untagged publications.

4. E-Publishing Website Procedures. The Air Force has transitioned from a paper-based media to an
electronic media. However, some publications/IMTs/forms will remain as physical products (i.e., ID
cards, restricted area badges, labels, classified/for official use only (FOUO) publications). Each organiza-
SCOTTAFBPAM33-101 22 JULY 2005                                                                       3


tion that requires publications/IMTs/forms must establish an e-Publishing on-line account IAW Air Force
guidelines. Units may establish an e-Publishing Website on-line account by going to http://www.e-pub-
lishing.af.mil; then Physical Products and On-Line Ordering. If you have an account established, enter
your e-mail address and password; new accounts, go to New e-Publishing Account. NOTE: Agencies
must submit AF IMTs 1846, Request for and Record of Organizational Account, to order accountable/
safeguard forms or classified/FOUO publications via the e-Publishing Website; requestor must list each
item separately on AF IMT 1846. The functional chief/unit commander approves AF IMT 1846; the Pub-
lishing Manager verifies all AF IMT 1846 for submission to the Air Force Publications Distribution Cen-
ter.

5. Forms Adopted. AF IMT 673, Request To Issue Publication, and AF IMT 1846, Request for and
Record of Organizational Account.



                                             FREDERIC C. RYDER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 375th Mission Support Group
