BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE
SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE                                                    INSTRUCTION 34-101

                                                                              22 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                          Services

                                                    RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, BOAT, AND
                                                          TRAILER LOT REGISTRATION



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 375 FSS/FSC                                                        Certified by: 375 FSS/CC
                                                                           (Major Benji Jackson)
Supersedes:    SCOTTAFBI34-101,                                                           Pages: 4
               11 February 2000


This instruction implements guidance from Air Force Instruction 34-110, Air Force Outdoor
Recreation Programs and Procedures, and establishes policy and procedures for the registration
and parking of recreational vehicles, boats, campers, and utility trailers for owner identification
and base parking privileges. It applies to all members, military and civilian, part-time and full-
time employees or volunteers, and all patrons of Scott AFB. This instruction applies to the 932d
Airlift Wing (AFRES) and the 126th Air Refueling Wing (ANG). Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Allowance for storage of project vehicles has been added. Short-term storage has been
authorized. Thirty-day payments by cash defined. Definition of abandoned vehicle defined.
Requirement to use Treasury Offset program for collection of past due fees.
 2                                                     SCOTTAFBI34-101 22 OCTOBER 2012


1. Overview. Recreational vehicles storage allows the authorized users of Scott AFB to store
recreation type vehicles when not in use. Fees are charges to offset administrative costs
associated with determining authorized use and maintaining records concern the vehicles and
their registered owners. Fencing, pavements, and security concerns are internal to the operation.
2. Owner’s Responsibilities.
     2.1. Owner must maintain the area around their storage space, removing all litter, grass, and
     weeds.
     2.2. Will maintain vehicles and space at all times.
        2.2.1. Owners must notify Outdoor Recreation at commercial (618) 256-2067/DSN 576-
        2067 or email 375FSS.ODR@scott.af.mil, of any change in status regarding the items
        stored in the lot, to include change of address or telephone number.
        2.2.2. Extensive maintenance will not be performed on the lot. For example,
        overhauling a motor, repairing or replacing an axle and/or changing the oil or coolant will
        not be tolerated. Replacing lamps and/or lamp lenses, battery boosting, wiper blades and
        adding fluids is permitted within the users allotted space.
        2.2.3. All recreational vehicles must have a current registration, license, and proper state
        tags. Failure to follow this directive may result in the removal or impoundment of the
        vehicle at the owner’s expense. Project vehicles must be titled to lot user, a photocopy of
        title is to be provided to Outdoor Recreation.
        2.2.4. Owners must remove all valuables from vehicles before storing. The 375th Force
        Support Squadron and the United States Air Force are not responsible for any losses due
        to theft.
3. Eligibility.
     3.1. Eligibility and priority for use are established IAW AFI 34-262, Services Programs and
     Use Eligibility.
     3.2. First Priority—active duty military residing on base.
     3.3. Second Priority—active duty military residing off base.
     3.4. Third Priority—retired military residing in the area.
     3.5. Fourth Priority—DOD civilian employees working on Scott AFB.
     3.6. Fifth Priority—all other military personnel and DOD civilians with access to Scott AFB.
4. Registration.
     4.1. Personnel assigned to Scott AFB who uses the 375th Force Support Squadron’s
     Recreational Vehicle Storage Lot for personal vehicles or other recreational equipment must
     register the item with Outdoor Recreation, building 3176.
     4.2. Owners registering items will be required to sign a Storage Lot Permit, and must show
     proof of ownership, current license, registration, and tags.
        4.2.1. Owners will be assigned a space in an authorized vehicle storage area. Owners
        must complete a Scott AFB Form 22, Storage Lot Registration, prior to receiving access
        to the storage area.
SCOTTAFBI34-101 22 OCTOBER 2012                                                                    3


           4.2.1.1. Short term storage is defined as less than 60 days, and is subject to an
           increased fee rate.
           4.2.1.2. Project vehicles are defined as vehicles/autos/campers/trucks that are in a
           state of repair or upgrade. These vehicles must be covered with a canopy at all times
           they are in the lot. Absolutely no maintenance may be performed on the vehicle
           while stored in the lot. Project vehicles are also subject to an increased fee rate.
       4.2.2. If no spaces are available, persons desiring to store vehicles in the storage lot will
       be added to a waiting list based on the eligibility status. The waiting list will be
       maintained (www.375fss.com/IA/odr/RV/) by Outdoor Recreation. When a space
       becomes available, the next person on list will be notified, he/she has 5 duty days to
       respond with intent to use. If the person does not respond within 5 duty days, he/she will
       be moved to the bottom of the list within their category and the next person on the list
       will be offered the open space. Once issued a space, users will not be asked to release
       that spot as long as the vehicle on that lot is registered to the same person as identified on
       the Scott AFB Form 22. Lots may not be “sublet” or re-issued to other users by the
       registered user.
           4.2.2.1. Fees for the lot issued will begin when the user accepts the lot. Spots
           accepted before the 15th on the month require a full month’s fee, lots accepted after
           the 15th require a half-month’s fee.
       4.2.3. All items stored in the lot must be stored in their assigned space. Failure to do so
       will result in the owner being contacted and the items removed. Owners may lose their
       storage lot privileges for failing to obey the rules.
5. Fees.
   5.1. Payment of all fees must be current, payable monthly or annually. All users must
   provide a valid credit card or debit card number for billing monthly lot use fees to reserve the
   lot. Cash is accepted for 30 days increments only, with no guarantee for additional days past
   the 30 paid days; lots will be assigned from the waiting list when a user is waiting.
   5.2. When the fees are in arrears due to failure of credit card charge processing, or other
   reasons, a re-processing fee of $20.00 per month will be accessed the user each month for a
   maximum of 90 days. After 90 days, the vehicle will be considered abandoned, a registered
   letter will be sent to the user’s address on the registration form, informing the user that due
   process will be started to claim the property for monies owed. Any monies owed to the
   375th Force Support Squadron may be collected thru Treasury Offset of Federal Income tax
   refunds.
   5.3. Refunds will be applied for half months, if a space is terminated before the 15th; a half-
   month’s fee will be refunded upon request. Terminations on/or after the 15th will not be
   refunded. Fees are not transferable to other spaces being used by the same person.




                                              DAVID ALMAND, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
 4                                                 SCOTTAFBI34-101 22 OCTOBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORT INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-262, Services Programs and Use Eligibility, 27 June 2002
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
