BY ORDER OF THE                                                 SCOTT AFB INSTRUCTION 36-2501
COMMANDER INSTALLATION                                                                28 MARCH 1997
COMMANDER
                                                                                             Personnel

                                                             SENIOR AIRMAN BELOW-THE-ZONE
                                                                                 PROGRAM




                    COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:           This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
                  http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 375 MSS/DPMPE (TSgt Pitassi)                                        Certified by: 375 MSS/DPMP
                                                                             (Capt Anne Marie Fenton)
                                                                                               Pages: 5
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction establishes Scott Air Force Base procedures for the nomination and selection of excep-
tionally well-qualified airmen for one-time consideration for promotion to Senior Airman (SrA)
Below-The-Zone (BTZ) and to ensure fair, equitable, and timely promotion consideration. It only applies
to the enlisted personnel assigned to Scott Air Force Base and associated units.



1. Eligibility:
   1.1. Fully qualified minimum requirements for SrA are 36 months time-in-service (TIS) and 20
   months time-in-grade (TIG), or 28 months TIG, whichever occurs first. The BTZ selects receive early
   promotion 6 months prior to the fully qualified requirement. Quarterly boards are held in December,
   March, June, and September to consider airmen eligible for early promotion in January through
   March, April through June, July through September, and October through December, respectively.
   1.2. The member must meet promotion eligibility requirements established in AFI 36-2502, Airman
   Promotion Program, Table 2-1.
   1.3. The immediate commander ensures airmen nonrecommended to meet the board are notified
   either verbally or in writing of their nonrecommended status.

2. Quotas:
   2.1. Quotas are established quarterly based on 15 percent of the eligibles (TIG and TIS only).
   2.2. Distribution of unit quotas is delegated to the Military Personnel Flight (MPF) Commander.
   2.3. Quota aggregation is not allowed. Squadron quotas may not be combined to form a group.
   Squadrons can aggregate to the Central Base Board (CBB).
2                                                                      SAFBI36-2501 28 MARCH 1997

3. Large Unit Selection Procedures:
    3.1. Units with seven or more eligibles will be classified as large units for quota purposes.
       3.1.1. Large units may nominate individuals for consideration by the CBB with the respective
       commander’s approval. If this option is chosen, large units must relinquish selection authority and
       all quotas to the CBB.
       3.1.2. Large units must consider all qualified individuals meeting TIS and TIG requirements,
       even if they are TDY, on leave, or have a projected reassignment with a report not later than date
       during or subsequent to the processing month.
    3.2. Commanders of large units will conduct a review process to select the most qualified individuals
    for SrA BTZ. The review process must be fair and equitable for all individuals. If any nominated
    member will not be present for the selection process due to circumstances beyond the member’s con-
    trol (TDY, emergency leave, convalescent leave, hospitalized, etc.), the board will review records
    only. Large units must complete their selection process no later than (NLT) 3 duty days prior to the
    date the CBB convenes.
    3.3. Once the selections are made, the commander underlines the names of the unit selects on the
    BTZ eligibility list, signs the list, and returns it to 375 MSS/DPMPE (Promotions) NLT 1 duty day
    prior to the date the CBB convenes. A unit is not required to use all quotas if the quality of the nomi-
    nations is not sufficient to warrant it. If any quotas are not used, indicate by annotating the roster
    before returning to 375 MSS/DPMPE. Nominees are not to be notified of their selection/nonselection
    status until the CBB has made its selections and the 375 AW/CC has approved all BTZ selections.

4. The CBB Procedures:
    4.1. Any units with six or less eligibles will be classified as a small unit. Small units may nominate
    one, some, or all of their qualified eligibles to the CBB.
    4.2. The CBB will be chaired by a chief master sergeant who will act as board president and two other
    chief master sergeants or chief selectees. The 375 AW/CCC will select the board president. A nonvot-
    ing member in the rank of SrA or above will act as the board recorder. Board members will evaluate
    and score records impartially and without prejudice, keeping in mind the potential of the airmen under
    consideration and the best interests of the Air Force.
    4.3. The CBB will be records only:
       4.3.1. The records will consist of each nominee’s most recent EPR, a BTZ RIP (provided by 375
       MSS/DPMPE), and an AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award (prepared by the member’s unit).
       The EPR and AF Form 1206 are mandatory. The AF Form 1206 must be kept to one page and will
       contain the categories shown in paragraph 4.3.2. Further guidance on the areas evaluated is pro-
       vided at Attachment 1.
       4.3.2. Primary emphasis is placed on duty performance, with secondary emphasis on the
       whole-person concept. The following categories must be used on all SrA BTZ AF Forms 1206
       meeting the CBB. Scoring guidelines are shown below. The board president will determine what
       procedures will be used to ensure an equitable evaluation of all records and how tie scores will be
       resolved:
SAFBI36-2501 28 MARCH 1997                                                                               3


   Area Evaluated and Score Range

   Leadership and Job Performance in Primary Duties       0-30 points
   F Awards/Decorations/Titles                            0- 5 points
   Significant Self-Improvement                           0- 5 points
   Other Accomplishments                                  0-10 points

   4.4. The board recorder will combine board member’s score, rank-order the nominees to determine
   select/nonselect status, and prepare board minutes.

5. The MPF Responsibilities:
   5.1. The 375 MSS/DPMPE acts as the overall office of primary responsibility for the Scott Air Force
   Base SrA BTZ Program.
   5.2. Distributes quotas, distributes products, establishes suspenses, publicizes each BTZ selection
   cycle, and is responsive to the board president of the CBB.
   5.3. Provides the 375 AW/CC with a written record of the CBB and large unit recommendations for
   selection.
   5.4. Ensures timely notification to unit commanders of the select and nonselect status of their nomi-
   nees.
   5.5. Projects BTZ promotions in the Personnel Data System (PDS).

6. Unit Commander Responsibilities:
   6.1. Conducts quality force reviews on nominees and selects prior to submitting names to Career
   Enhancements.
   6.2. Ensures proper documentation is completed in a timely manner to meet all suspenses for the
   board process.
   6.3. Ensures all nominees/selects are notified of their selection status as soon as results are approved
   by the 375 AW/CC and released by 375 MSS/DPMPE.



                                         PAULA A. WELENC, Lt Col, USAF
                                         Commander, 375th Mission Support Squadron
4                                                                       SAFBI36-2501 28 MARCH 1997

                                                Attachment 1

                                   SENIOR AIRMAN BTZ GUIDANCE


    The purpose of this attachment is to provide uniformity in the writing and grading of the AF Forms
    1206 used for the SrA BTZ Program. Use the following guidelines for writing/grading the categories:


    CATEGORIES:


    - Leadership and Job Performance (0-30 points) - Address the member’s leadership and job perfor-
    mance in their primary AFSC. This is not the place for describing the member’s job. Use this area to
    show the member’s level of performance and technical expertise--how the nominee developed new
    ideas or techniques that significantly increased mission effectiveness. Clearly demonstrate the leader-
    ship qualities of the nominee in his or her primary job--what makes the individual stand out above oth-
    ers?
     -- Emphasize dollar and time savings in real numbers. Avoid using percentages, unless you back them
        up with real numbers.
     -- Emphasize where the nominee has taken “risks” and had a positive impact on the mission, people,
        and resources.


    - Air Force Awards/Decorations/Titles (0-5 points) - Include awards, decorations, or titles the individ-
    ual has won and why the individual received them. If the member has been submitted for an award, but
    has not yet been approved, indicate that it is a submission and not yet awarded.
     -- Emphasize the actions or qualities that led to the individual receiving the award.
      -- Decorations should be verified against the Personnel Data System (PDS) and the individual’s
    records. No credit will be given for decorations indicated on the AF Form 1206 that do not appear in
    the PDS or in the individual’s personnel records.


    - Significant Self-Improvement (0-5 points). This category is to show how the nominee is improving.
    -- Include off-duty education the member is enrolled in or has completed since entering active duty.
       Indicate degrees the member has received, semester hours completed, and other similar information.
       Include seminars, on-duty courses, quality and computer classes that have developed the member’s
       creative abilities. Indicate how the member’s self-improvement efforts have enhanced job
       performance.
SAFBI36-2501 28 MARCH 1997                                                                               5

- Other Accomplishments (0-10 points). This category is often confused with other categories. The
key is that the accomplishments set the member apart from others of equal or higher grade in any
AFSC. Include items such as:
 -- Distinguished or honor graduate of technical schools.
 -- Accomplishments achieved through special projects for the commander, first sergeant, flight chief,
    senior enlisted advisor, etc., that are not primary duty related.
 -- Honor guard or other special duty participation.
 -- Improvements or achievements made in additional duties held by the member. Show the action the
    member took and the impact.
 -- Participation in a cross-functional process action team or working group that improved a process or
    program that had a significant impact on the unit or base.
 -- Any activities the member participates in that make him/her an articulate and positive representative
    of the Air Force to the local or base community.
