BY THE ORDER OF                                                    SCOTT AFB INSTRUCTION 32-102
THE INSTALLATION COMMANDER                                                         18 NOVEMBER 2000

                                                                                        Civil Engineering

                                                              MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION OF
                                                              ELECTRICAL POWER SYSTEMS AND
                                                                             PUMPING UNITS


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE : This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at: http://
afpubs.hq.af.mil.


OPR: 375 CES/CEOIP (SSgt David W. Hall)                                      Certified by: 375 CES/CEO
                                                                              (Maj Thomas Kaldenberg)
Supersedes SAFBI 32-102, 14 March 1994.                                                          Pages: 6
                                                                                          Distribution: F

This instruction outlines policies, responsibilities, and technical standards for the operation and mainte-
nance of electrical power systems and pumping units installed as real property on Scott AFB IL and under
the management responsibility of the 375 CES. It defines and establishes the interfacing between various
management, operational, and maintenance organizations supported by the base commercial power sys-
tem and the real property installed equipment (RPIE) standby generating systems.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction was revised to conform to the AF Numbering System for publications; update generator
and pump testing instructions.

1. Terms Explained:
   1.1. Prime Power. Obtained from a commercial source to support Air Force facilities. This power is
   the normal source of power, but may refer to generator power when such power is the only available
   source of power for the operation.
   1.2. Standby Power. This term and back-up power, alternate power source, generator power or
   on-again/off-again power, refer to power provided by either RPIE generators or equipment authoriza-
   tion inventory data/organizational property (EAID) generators.
   1.3. RPIE Generators. Power units assigned to specific facilities on a permanent basis to provide
   standby power in case of prime power failure.
   1.4. Equipment Authorization Inventory Data/Organizational Property Generators. Power units
   assigned to the Power Production Section that may be used to support units on a temporary basis.
   1.5. High Reliability Power. Includes the primary power source (commercial), distribution systems,
   and auxiliary power source that are designed to provide specified critical loads, with power having a
2                                                                  SAFBI32-102 18 NOVEMBER 2000

    reliability adequate to satisfy the operational requirements. Normally, high reliability power systems
    are provided to communication facilities, navigational aid facilities, computer systems, and similar
    systems designed as high reliability power users.
    1.6. Power Reliability. The ratio, in percent, of the time power of acceptable quality is available to
    the time power required.

2. Design of Electrical Power Systems:
    2.1. The Base Civil Engineer (BCE) is responsible for engineering designs, equipment requisitions,
    and performs equipment installation, operation, maintenance, and repairs on power generating and
    distributing systems IAW procedures in AFMAN 32-1082, Facilities Engineering-Electrical Exte-
    rior Facilities,
    AFI 32-1063, Electric Power Systems, and AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire
    Prevention Program.
    2.2. The BCE Power Production Section has various EAID generators that will provide combinations
    of AMPERAGE, VOLTAGE, and PHASES.
    2.3. The EAID generator units are Class "C" units normally operated as "on-again/off-again" units
    that do not exceed 8 hours of operational time with each start.
    2.4. Organizations having power requirements submit their requirements to the BCE for program-
    ming, procurement, and installation of RPIE generators. The EAID units are available only on a tem-
    porary basis. Permanent requirements also require RPIE units.

3. The BCE’s Responsibilities:
    3.1. Provide technical assistance and determine technical adequacy of systems.
    3.2. Install, inspect, maintain, operate, troubleshoot, and repair generating and distributing systems.
    3.3. Assume maintenance responsibility for using agency owned (EAID) generators under the provi-
    sions of AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, if the agreement can be supported by avail-
    able base resources and will provide a more economical and effective mission support.
    3.4. Provide "standby generator operator" training and certification to using agency personnel
    (Attachment 1).

4. Using Agency Responsibilities:
    4.1. The using agency is responsible for furnishing the BCE with all required data on system quality,
    quantity, and reliability requirements, whether the user is served separately or as a part of the base
    electrical power system.
    4.2. When requested by the BCE, the using agency is also responsible for assisting in the perfor-
    mance of coordinated engineering studies. These engineering studies are used to determine equip-
    ment/system attainment of compatibility, reliability to assure mission achievement, and in assisting
    facility/equipment improvement.

5. Delegation of the BCE’s Responsibilities:
SAFBI32-102 18 NOVEMBER 2000                                                                              3

   5.1. Delegation of the BCE’s responsibilities will be granted only after consideration has been given
   to mission response time requirements of the using agency, capability of the BCE to meet these
   requirements, the effectiveness and efficiency of operations, and the requirements for direct mission
   support. The provisions of AFI 25-201 will be followed when responsibilities are delegated.
   5.2. Responsibilities delegated are limited principally to visual preoperational/postoperational
   inspections of generating units, operation of the standby power units, transfer of power systems
   between the prime power source and the alternate power source, and record documentation of equip-
   ment performance.
   5.3. Personnel designated by the commander or chief of the using agency as "emergency generator
   operators" will receive training from Power Production personnel on the procedures and techniques
   associated with operating emergency power systems. Facility managers are responsible for requesting
   annual training. Personnel trained will be designated on the Request for Standby Generator Training/
   Certification Letter (Attachment 1). A copy of this letter will be posted near the generator or pump-
   ing unit and will provide certification for a period of 1 year from the date of training. Only those per-
   sonnel actually trained and certified on this letter are authorized to operate equipment for which the
   letter provides certification. All other forms of certification are obsolete. Base Fire Protection Branch
   personnel, as designated by the Base Fire Chief, will be trained annually by the Power Production per-
   sonnel on pump operations at Bldg 39. Training will be documented and posted as stated above.
   5.4. Certification will be revoked by Power Production Shop Foreman when operating personnel are
   found to be using unsafe practices, not following procedures, running units for prolonged periods of
   time (more than 15 minutes) without load connected, or misusing or abusing emergency backup
   power or pumping units. Power Production will forward all letters to the using agency's commander
   stating the reason for the revocation of certification. Only the using agency’s commander may request
   training of decertified personnel by a letter to the BCE.

6. Using Agency's Responsibility for Coordinating Maintenance Schedules:
   6.1. Using agencies are responsible for determining a specific day each week that is best suited for
   scheduling generator testing/exercising. This day must be provided to the BCE for inclusion into the
   Maintenance Schedule Program. If mission requirements change and result in incompatible schedul-
   ing, using agencies must determine a new day that will allow compatible scheduling and inform the
   BCE organization.
   6.2. Using agencies are responsible for ensuring equipment availability for generator load testing on
   the date and time scheduled. If the facility cannot be load tested due to such factors as mission
   requirements, inclement weather, changes in flying schedules, or other justifiable reasons, coordina-
   tion will be made to arrange for testing sometime during the due week of the unit. If rescheduling is
   not possible, a representative of the using agency will be required to sign a statement on the reverse
   side of an AF Form 487, Emergency Generator Operating Log (Inspection Testing), attesting to
   the reason for failure to perform the required load testing. If the using agency repeatedly denies
   access to equipment for required load testing, BCE personnel cannot guarantee reliability of emer-
   gency power systems.
   6.3. The BCE personnel are available for generator testing during normal duty hours only, Mon-Fri,
   unless otherwise specified by agreement between the BCE and the commander or the chief of the
   using agency.
4                                                                   SAFBI32-102 18 NOVEMBER 2000

7. Testing or Exercising of Electrical Power Systems:
    7.1. Emergency power systems are operated (exercised) to supply their actual connected loads (load
    banks/dummy loads will not be used) as follows:
       7.1.1. Unless otherwise specified, generators will be exercised 1 hour every month after the unit
       reaches operating temperature.
       7.1.2. Gasoline engine units classified as RPIE will be exercised 30 minutes each month. Gaso-
       line engine units classified as EAID will be exercised 15 minutes each month. Propane/natural
       gas engine units supplied by the base gas distribution system will be exercised according to para-
       graphs 7.1.1. and 7.1.2. Propane/natural gas engine units supplied by a tank will be exercised for
       30 minutes each month. All water/waste pump engines will be exercised 15 minutes twice each
       month.
       7.1.3. Building 39 will have all units tested by Power Production personnel for 30 minutes each
       month; Alarms, Water, and Waste personnel will assist. The Base Fire Protection Branch will be
       notified prior to any test.
    7.2. Emergency power systems supporting navigational aids and Air Traffic Control (ATC) facilities
    are exercised according to procedures outlined above and IAW AFI 13-203, Air Traffic Control,
    paragraph 1.22.
    7.3. Generator load testing can be deferred where a prime power failure has occurred within the pre-
    vious 14-day period preceding the due date of the generator testing, provided the generator started,
    assumed facility load, carried the facility load, transferred back to prime power, and shutdown prop-
    erly. Additionally, documented proof of the successful operation must be annotated on an AF Form
    487. Otherwise, the facility must be exercised to demonstrate the capabilities.
    7.4. Emergency load testing consists of the following:
       7.4.1. Interruption of the prime power source.
       7.4.2. Automatic starting of engine by the transfer panel.
       7.4.3. Load transfer by panel to generator.
       7.4.4. Generator operation for the time period specified in paragraph 7.1.1., this instruction.
       7.4.5. Return of prime power source.
       7.4.6. Load transfer from generator to prime power source.
       7.4.7. Engine cool-down period and automatic shutdown of unit.

8. High Reliability Power (HRP) Systems:
    8.1. Using agencies are required to advise the BCE organization when electrical power generating or
    distribution systems reduce the facility reliability.
    8.2. Using agencies are responsible for ensuring that additional load-creating equipment is not
    installed, until a load study has been completed and the capability of the prime and backup power sys-
    tems have been determined adequate to support the increased load demands.
    8.3. Using agencies experiencing generator malfunctions/failures should immediately contact the
    BCE Service Call Desk at 256-2202 for dispatch of maintenance personnel.
SAFBI32-102 18 NOVEMBER 2000                                                                             5

   8.4. Using agencies should immediately contact the BCE Service Call Desk any time a transfer of
   power occurs. This will ensure that the Power Production personnel are properly notified of unsched-
   uled generator runs so any maintenance required can be accomplished.

9. Maintenance and Performance Data:
   9.1. An AF Form 487 must be completed each time an emergency generator is operated, unless the
   unit is located at an unmanned site/facility or during emergency power restoration of auto start system
   facilities (Control Tower/RAPCON) by ATC personnel.
   9.2. Maintenance and Performance Data Records are maintained in the BCE Power Production Sec-
   tion and available to using agencies for review.
   9.3. Completed AF Forms 487 by operator personnel are secured to the unit. These forms are gath-
   ered by Power Production personnel during each site/facility load test and posted to the unit's histori-
   cal records.
   9.4. The following equipment tolerances will be maintained on power generating units to ensure
   equipment damage does not occur to either the generating unit or the facility supported:
      9.4.1. Frequency will be 60 cycles +/- 0.5 percent nominal.
      9.4.2. Voltages will be within +/- 0.5 percent of generator rated output.
      9.4.3. Phase current balancing will be maintained within 20 percent between the high current
      phase and the low current phase.
      9.4.4. The kW loading will be maintained between 50 to 80 percent of rated capacity of the unit.
      Units with fewer loads will be replaced with smaller units, and units with greater loads will be
      replaced with larger units.
   9.5. The above-equipment tolerances will be maintained at stricter specifications for navigational
   aids, as required by AFI 32-1063, paragraph 7. At locations where a combination of systems are
   installed, the one complete system with all related equipment providing the lowest approach minimal
   will be provided with high reliability power. These systems include RAPCON, GCA, ILS, TACAN,
   VOR, and associated critical ATC communications/microwave equipment.



                                         JAMES S. BRACKETT, Lt Col, USAF
                                         Base Civil Engineer
6                                                                SAFBI32-102 18 NOVEMBER 2000

                                             Attachment 1

                             SAMPLE LETTER, REQUEST
                  FOR STANDBY GENERATOR TRAINING/CERTIFICATION


                                                                                    (Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR 375 CES/CEOIP
                       ATTN: Supervisor
FROM: (Organization/Office Symbol)
        (Street Address and Bldg #)
        Scott AFB IL 62225-5035
SUBJECT: Request for Standby Generator Training/Certification
            ACTION MEMORANDUM
A2.1. In accordance with AFI 32-1063, Electrical Power System, request the following listed personnel
receive training as "Standby Emergency Generator Operators" for this facility:
                                                                               SIGNATURES
GRADE/NAME         ORGANIZATION            DATE TRAINED         TRAINER              TRAINEE
A2.2. The above list has been screened to ensure that only mission-essential personnel have been selected
as "Standby Emergency Generator Operators."
A2.3. This organization will ensure that only the above-listed personnel operate the standby generator
units and complete the necessary preop/postop inspections, operational procedures posted on or near the
equipment, and complete record documentation as required by AFI 32-1063.
                                                    JOHN E. DOE, Lt Col, USAF
                                                    Commander
