BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                  SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 34-105
SCOTT AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              27 MARCH 2012

                                                                                      Services

                                                  OPERATION OF FAMCAMP (AIR FORCE
                                                              FAMILY CAMPGROUND)




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 375 FSS/FSC                                                    Certified by: 375 FSS/CC
                                                                       (Major Benji Jackson)
Supersedes:   SCOTTAFBI34-105,                                                        Pages: 4
              21 April 1995


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction 34-110, Air Force Outdoor Recreation
Programs and Procedures and establishes policies, procedures, and responsibilities to
standardize the operation and administration of the Family Campground (FAMCAMP). It
applies to all members of the FAMCAMP staff, military and civilian, part-time and full-time
employees, or volunteers, and all patrons of the FAMCAMP. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Changes 375 SVS/CC to 375 FSS/CC; Services Squadron to Force Support Squadron;
and moves eligibility requirements to section three.
1. Overview. The FAMCAMP allows users of Scott AFB to have a location to recreationally
camp on base. Fees are charged to offset administrative costs associated with determining
authorized use and maintaining the campground.
 2                                                         SCOTTAFBI34-105 27 MARCH 2012


2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. The Director of Outdoor Recreation is responsible for the management and operation of
     the FAMCAMP.
     2.2. The Outdoor Recreation/Recreation Equipment Checkout staff is responsible for taking
     reservations, assigning campsites, and collecting user fees. The Scott AFB Form 5,
     FAMCAMP Application, is used by the staff to register visitors and collect user fees at the
     end of their stay.
     2.3. The FAMCAMP maintenance person or the Outdoor Recreation/Recreation Equipment
     Checkout staff is responsible for cleaning the latrine facilities, restocking of necessary
     restroom/shower items, and the grounds upkeep.
     2.4. The Outdoor Recreation/Recreation Equipment Checkout staff will check receipts in the
     windows of recreational vehicles using the facility. They will advise any person without a
     valid permit card to leave the area and report to Outdoor Recreation/Recreation Equipment
     Checkout between 0800 and l600 daily (except November through March (closed Sunday)
     when winter hours are in effect) to pay their fees and obtain a permit.
3. Operation. Eligibility. Active duty and retired military members, DOD civilian employees,
and their dependents and guests are authorized to use the Scott Lake FAMCAMP.
     3.1. FAMCAMP rules will be posted and adhered to by FAMCAMP patrons. No changes in
     rules or hours of operation will be made without the approval of the 375th Force Support
     Squadron Commander (375 FSS/CC).
     3.2. The operation of the FAMCAMP area will be monitored by the 375th Force Support
     Squadron with the assistance of the 375th Civil Engineer Squadron for maintenance, utilities,
     and refuse collection.
     3.3. Personnel will be on duty at Outdoor Recreation/Recreation Equipment Checkout
     during operating hours to register all incoming patrons. After duty hours, patrons will be
     required to register early the next day to alleviate assigning two people to the same location.
     The 375th Security Forces Squadron will direct all personnel to Outdoor Recreation, Bldg
     855.
     3.4. Reservations will be accepted in advance. All reservations must be accompanied by a
     deposit to cover the first night's stay at the campground. Campsites will also be issued on a
     space-available basis.
     3.5. Campers canceling reservations and those failing to check in by 2200 on their first day
     of reservation will forfeit their deposit, unless there are extenuating circumstances; i.e.,
     illness, military commitments, etc. Cancelled reservations and/or failing to check in by 2200
     will result in the spot being issued to someone else.
     3.6. Refunds will not be made to campers departing the campgrounds earlier than planned,
     unless there are circumstances beyond their control; i.e., family illness or death in the family,
     or military commitments that require the person to return to duty.
     3.7. The sponsor will be responsible for registering at Outdoor Recreation upon arrival,
     cleaning up the area used, and for the behavior of dependents and guests.
SCOTTAFBI34-105 27 MARCH 2012                                                                  3


   3.8. Use of this area is restricted to campers only. Occupancy of a campsite will be limited
   to a 30-day period, with an option to extend from day-to-day, provided no waiting list exists.
   Campers will be given keys to the restroom/shower facility.
   3.9. Camping fees will be established by the NAF Council and approved by the Installation
   Commander.
   3.10. Radios, TVs, stereos, and similar equipment will be turned down to a low volume after
   2300 in order not to disturb other campers.
   3.11. Pets will be kept on a leash in the campground area at all times.
   3.12. Fires will be permitted in barbecue grills only.
   3.13. An information brochure will be available for each patron.
   3.14. Check-out time on the day of departure is 1100.
4. Safety Precautions.
   4.1. The applicable portions of Scott AFB Instruction 32-2001, Fire Protection Program,
   will be adhered to at all times. A copy will be posted in the latrine facilities.
   4.2. Applicable safety precautions with regard to each camping site and its relationship to
   others will be the subject of frequent inspections to ensure maximum safety conditions.




                                             MICHAEL J. HORNITSCHEK, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 4                                                 SCOTTAFBI34-105 27 MARCH 2012


                                    Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFOMRATION

References
SCOTTAFBI 32-2001, Fire Protection Program, 28 September 2009
Prescribed Form
Scott AFB Form 5, FAMCAMP Application, 7 October 2002

Abbreviations and Acronyms
FAMCAMP—Family Campground
FSS—Force Support Squadron
