BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                            SEYMOUR JOHNSON AIR FORCE BASE
4TH FIGHTER WING                                                  INSTRUCTION 23-302

                                                                                  4 AUGUST 2010

                                                                            Material Management

                                                VEHICLE ACCIDENT/ABUSE PREVENTIVE
                                                                   CONTROL POLICY

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 4 LRS/LGRV                                                            Certified by: 4 LRS/CC
                                                                       (Lt Col Randall E. Warring)
                                                                                           Pages: 6


This instruction implements AFPD 24-3, Operation, and Use of Ground Transportation
Vehicles, and AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management. This instruction applies to all squadron
commanders, tenant units, vehicle control officers (VCO), vehicle control noncommissioned
officers (VCNCO) and vehicle operators assigned to or temporary duty (TDY) to Seymour
Johnson AFB, including all National Guard and Reserve personnel. This instruction establishes
the policies and procedures for implementing and managing the wing’s vehicle accident, abuse
and incident program. It includes specific guidance and addresses the definitions, authority,
disposition, reporting procedures and reimbursement of repairs for military vehicle accidents,
abuse and incidents. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.

1. Objective. The key to successfully reducing damage to vehicles is placing responsibility
where it rightfully belongs, that is, with the operator and the operator’s commander charged with
maintaining high standards of vehicle operator training and discipline. Consequently, using the
procedures set forth in paragraph 5.5, units will transfer expenses for the actual cost of materials
used to repair damage to vehicles operated by their personnel.
 2                                          SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI23-302 4 August 2010


2. Goal. To reduce the number of vehicle accidents, abuse and incident cases, thereby, reduce
the risk of personal injury or death while keeping the cost of repairs to an absolute minimum.
Commanders are required to initiate internal investigations into circumstances surrounding
accidents, incidents and cases of suspected vehicle abuse and initiate administrative actions
where negligence is found.
3. Definitions:
     3.1. A vehicle accident is defined as a collision, impact or abrasion against a fixed or moving
     object with a military vehicle, causing damage and/or requiring repairs, whether or not
     immediately noticeable.
     3.2. Vehicle abuse is defined as an act or omission that has caused damage that cannot be
     attributed to fair wear and tear under normal circumstances. Vehicle abuse may result in
     early failure of components or immediately detectable damage. See attachment 2 for
     examples of vehicle abuse.
     3.3. Vehicle incidents are defined as damage not caused by accident and/or abuse and cannot
     be considered fair wear and tear. For example; hail damage.
4. Responsibilities:
     4.1. Vehicle Management. The 4th Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS), Vehicle
     Management Flight (LGRV) is responsible for identifying suspected accidents, abuse and
     incidents.                    4 LRS/LGRV Flight Commander, VFM, or their designated
     representative will evaluate each case and validate each alleged vehicle accident, abuse, or
     incident. They will be the final authorities entrusted with differentiating between an
     accident, abuse, or incident. Reporting damage to an Air Force vehicle is the unit’s
     responsibility. Documentation and tracking of the accident, abuse, or incident damage repair
     is the responsibility of the Vehicle Management and Analysis Section (VM&A) in 4
     LRS/LGRV.
     4.2. Vehicle Operator. The vehicle operator has the primary responsibility to prevent a
     vehicle accident, abuse, or incident. Damage will be reported immediately to the 4th
     Security Forces Squadron (4 SFS) and 4 LRS/LGRV. Vehicle operators will provide copies
     of accident reports to Vehicle Management Customer Service when turning the vehicles in
     for maintenance.
     4.3. Vehicle Management Program. Secondary responsibility rests with the unit’s
     VCO/VCNCO who should conduct monthly inspections to ensure assigned vehicles are
     serviceable, clean, and that operators are performing daily inspections. The operator’s
     inspection guide and trouble report should be used when inspecting vehicles. The
     VCO/VCNCO shall also inspect each vehicle before and after being turned into 4
     LRS/LGRV for repairs.
     4.4. Using Organization. Financial responsibility for vehicle damage rests with the vehicle
     operator’s assigned organization. In cases where multiple government-owned vehicles
     (GOV) are involved and an investigation cannot determine fault, repair cost will be the
     responsibility of the organization/squadron to which the operator is assigned. Group
     commanders will be responsible for accuracy, review and completeness of any Report of
     Survey (ROS) originating within their unit.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI23-302 4 August 2010                                                         3


5. Procedures: Upon determination of vehicle damage as a result of accident or abuse:
   5.1. 4 LRS/LGRV will initiate a work order to repair the damage. Actual repairs will not be
   initiated for 72 hours or three duty days to allow your organization time to investigate the
   cause of the accident or abuse. The work order, along with a letter identifying the details of
   the accident or abuse damage will be signed by 4 LRS/CC, and sent to the responsible
   organization’s commander. A courtesy copy of the letter will be sent to the ROS manager
   when requested.
   5.2. 4 LRS/LGRV will ensure photos of damaged areas are taken prior to repair. At the
   request of the using organization’s commander, an AF IMT 20, Repair Cost and Repairable
   Value Statement, will be prepared by VM&A, depicting actual cost expended to repair the
   vehicle. The AF IMT 20 will be required if liability is assessed in the ROS process.
   5.3. The using organization is responsible for any additional photographs or accident reports
   required for their own investigation.
   5.4. When payment for damage, either voluntary or through use of DD Form 200, Financial
   Liability Investigation of Property Loss, is involved, the actual cost of the repairs is
   computed using an AF IMT 20 in accordance with AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for
   Air Force Property.
   5.5. The organization responsible for damage is responsible for material costs, civilian labor
   and contract repair costs to repair accident/abuse-related damage. Reimbursement will be
   made regardless of pecuniary liability. Funds will automatically be collected from
   organizations responsible for accident/abuse damage. The responsible organization’s
   Government Purchase Card (GPC) is the preferred method of payment for contract repairs; in
   addition, VMF will accept fund transfers through Resource Advisor’s coordination and Form
   9 in matters that exceed GPC purchase limit. 4 MSG/CC is the final decision authority to
   resolve all conflicts concerning this program.
6. Accident Reporting Procedures for Privately Owned Vehicles (POV) and Government
Owned Vehicles (GOV):
   6.1. Reporting Procedures. Report accidents involving vehicles on Standard Form (SF) 91,
   Operators Report of Motor Vehicle Accident. The operator should obtain the names of all
   individuals involved, including witnesses and police. The completed SF 91 must be
   delivered to the unit VCO/VCNCO along with narrative of the events.
   6.2. POV Procedures. Vehicle accident cases involving private insurance companies will
   be reported/coordinated through 4 FW/JA.
   6.3. GOV Procedures. Repair estimates and actual GOV repairs must be accomplished
   with             4 LRS/LGRV.
7. Prescribed Forms No Prescribed Forms
8. Adopted Forms AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF IMT 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement
DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss
Standard Form 91, Operator’s Report of Motor Vehicle Accident
4   SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI23-302 4 August 2010




     MARK D. KELLY, Col, USAF
     Commander
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI23-302 4 August 2010                                                        5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
GOV—Government Owned or Leased Vehicle
POV—Privately Owned Vehicles
ROS—Report of Survey
VCO—Vehicle Control Officers
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officers
VM&A—Vehicle Management and Analysis Section
LRS/CC—4th Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander
LRS/LGRV—Vehicle Management Flight
MSG/CC—4th Mission Support Group Commander

Terms
Vehicle Fair Wear and Tear—The normal expected deterioration of a vehicle or equipment
based on its age, usage, and/or life expectancy.
Vehicle Accident—Any situation where a GOV or GSA vehicle strikes or is struck by any other
vehicle or strikes an object or structure, except vehicle incidents.
Vehicle Incident—Any situation where a GOV or GSA vehicle sustains damage where the
actions of any participative vehicle operator could not have prevented the outcome (i.e., act of
nature).
Vehicle Abuse—An act that has caused or may cause damage to a GOV or GSA vehicle that
cannot be attributed to fair wear and tear, accident or incident.
Using Organization—The organization that was using the GOV or GSA vehicle at the time of
the accident/abuse/incident.
Owning Organization—The organization that is authorized and assigned the GOV or GSA
vehicle.
 6                                          SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI23-302 4 August 2010


                                          Attachment 2
                                 TYPES OF VEHICLE ABUSE

A1.1. Types of Vehicle Abuse:
     A1.1.1. Failure to accomplish operator maintenance IAW AFI 23-302.
     A1.1.2. Failure to report vehicle discrepancies to Vehicle Management that result in further
     damage to the GOV. Discrepancies involving safety items must be reported immediately.
     Non-safety related items should be reported within 24 hours (one duty day).
     A1.1.3. Overloading or failing to tie down or otherwise secure cargo.
     A1.1.4. Tampering with governors or pollution control devices.
     A1.1.5. Operating vehicle/equipment with broken tire chains or improperly inflated tires.
     A1.1.6. Failure to protect the painted surface from oxidization and corrosion.
     A1.1.7. Failure to bring vehicle/equipment into the shop for scheduled maintenance.
     A1.1.8. Modifying vehicle/equipment without written permission from 4 LRS/LGRV VFM
     or VMS.
     A1.1.9. Refueling vehicle with incorrect type fuel, that is, diesel instead of mogas or vice
     versa.
     A1.1.10. .Contributing to wind damage by not parking vehicles into the wind or restraining
     doors when opening.
     A1.1.11. Riding or slipping clutches, except when necessary to maintain control of a vehicle
     during backing operations.
     A1.1.12. Operating vehicles using improperly selected gears, such as lugging in high gear
     and shifting into reverse when traveling forward.
     A1.1.13. Using vehicle for other than it's designed purpose.
