BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        SEYMOUR JOHNSON AFB INSTRUCTION
4TH FIGHTER WING                                                           36-102

                                                                       26 SEPTEMEBER 2011

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                           SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION
                                                             RESPONSE (SAPR) PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 4 FW/CVK                                                            Certified by: 4 FW/CV
                                                                         (Col Gabriel V. Green)
                                                                                       Pages: 13


The purpose of this Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program Instruction is to
supplement current Air Force Instruction 36-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention and Response
(SAPR) Program, with policies and procedures for the prevention of and response to sexual
assault, effective immediately at Seymour Johnson AFB (SJAFB), North Carolina. This
Instruction provides model response protocols defining relationships and establishes the mission,
organization, and responsibilities for the Sexual Assault Response Program. It also governs
procedures on the initial intervention and response to reported incidents of sexual assault.
Restricted reporting is available only to military personnel of the Armed Forces and the Coast
Guard. Military personnel include members on active duty and members of the Reserve and
National Guard performing federal duty on active duty training or inactive duty training, and
members of the National Guard in Federal (Title 10) status. It is recommended that these
protocols be widely distributed and continuously reviewed to ensure competent, sensitive
handling of sexual assault victims. Sexual assault is a crime and is incompatible with Air Force
core values and the foundation of our Wingman culture of high standards, professionalism,
personal discipline, and concern for one another’s well-being. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                               SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-102 26 SEPTEMEBER 2011


1. General Information.
     1.1. Program Purpose. The Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program
     reinforces the Air Force’s commitment to eliminate sexual assaults and promote a living and
     working environment where this type of behavior is not tolerated.
        1.1.1. Program goals are focused on the reduction of at-risk behavior associated with
        rape and sexual assault crimes; thereby establishing a climate of prevention to embrace
        the high standards and professionalism associated with our Wingman culture. The SAPR
        Program will foster mutual respect by reinforcing the Air Force policy of “zero
        tolerance” and monitor the climate/social trends of the installation.
        1.1.2. Prevention is a full-time endeavor of the SAPR Program. Education, training,
        awareness, and community involvement make up the foundation of the SAPR Program’s
        prevention efforts.
2. Reporting
     2.1. The following are important considerations when responding to both Restricted and
     Unrestricted victim reporting.
        2.1.1. Victim Response: Each sexual assault victim will respond differently depending
        upon victim maturity, personality, personal trauma history and factors unique to this
        assault (major physical injury, weapon use, gang rape, ritualistic/cult, drugged, tortured,
        abduction, etc.). DO NOT discount a victim’s report based on the victim’s emotional
        state or style of relating the events of the incident. It is not uncommon in sexual assault
        cases for a victim to recant the initial allegation because of the trauma of sexual assault.
        It is important to note that “recanting” (or withdrawing of a statement) by the victim does
        not necessarily mean that the victim lied or that a sexual assault did not occur.
3. Responsibilities
     3.1. 4th Fighter Wing Commander (4 FW/CC)
        3.1.1. The 4 FW/CC ensures the implementation of the SAPR Program for all military
        personnel, their family members and government civilian employees.
     3.2. 4th Fighter Wing Vice Commander (4 FW/CV)
        3.2.1. The 4 FW/CV is designated as the responsible official to act for the installation
        commander and supervises the installation SARC. Supervision will not be further
        delegated.
        3.2.2. 4 FW/CV ensures the Air Force sexual assault prevention policy becomes an
        integral part of day-to-day personnel management.
        3.2.3. 4 FW/CV designates an installation Sexual Assault Prevention and Response
        Coordinator (SARC) for the SAPR Program. The SARC is responsible for implementing
        and coordinating an awareness and prevention training program for the base. The SARC
        will maintain and provide current information on base/community referral programs for
        victims (e.g., victim advocate services, referral counseling, and medical care). The SARC
        will maintain the security of protected covered communication and information and
        ensure collection of sexual assault data in accordance with the requirements of this
        instruction.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-102 26 SEPTEMEBER 2011                                                    3


     3.2.4. 4 FW/CV ensures that all personnel receive mandatory annual SAPR Program
     training. Strategic periods of training/briefings might include pre/post deployment
     rotational periods.
     3.2.5. 4 FW/CV coordinates with the SARC to ensure that victims of sexual assault
     receive reasonable protection from the alleged offender(s) through 4th Security Forces
     Squadron (4 SFS) protection, temporary lodging or Safe House. In cases where the
     victim and alleged offender are assigned to the same squadron, commanding officers
     should consider assigning either the victim or alleged offender to another duty
     assignment until the case is legally settled and/or the victim is considered out of danger.
     3.2.6. The 4 FW/CV has the authority to decide the best use of resources for safe on-base
     living environment in Unaccompanied Housing, Accompanied Housing, Temporary
     Lodging, or a designated Safe-House Shelter for victims of violence.
  3.3. Commanders
     3.3.1. A sexual assault reported to a commander by a military member automatically
     becomes an unrestricted report of sexual assault and triggers an official investigation.
     3.3.2. Commanders should ensure the physical safety and emotional security of the
     victim, then determine if the alleged assailant is still nearby and if the victim desires or
     requires protection. Commanders will determine if the victim desires or requires
     emergency medical care or a forensic exam. Call the SARC (722-7272/920-7272) for
     assistance in determining the appropriate course of action. If there are major physical
     injuries, the Commander should make sure that the transportation of the victim to Wayne
     Memorial Hospital is immediately arranged. The victim should not be transported via
     POV. If the injuries are not severe or life threatening, the victim can be transported by
     the SARC in a government vehicle to the hospital. Notify the Air Force Office of Special
     Investigations (AFOSI) if necessary.
     3.3.3. Consult with the Office of the Staff Judge Advocate (4 FW/JA) before taking any
     administrative or disciplinary action against the victim for his/her collateral misconduct.
     3.3.4. Determine the need for protective actions, i.e., no contact orders, temporary
     reassignment to another unit, etc.
     3.3.5. Encourage members to be appropriately supportive of one another within the
     squadron to include both the victim and alleged offender.
     3.3.6. If a sexual assault has affected a unit member, consider unit refresher training by
     the SARC. Ensure that all personnel receive annual education and training in sexual
     assault and rape as offered through the SAPR Program.
     3.3.7. Discourage members from participating in gossip or grapevine speculation about
     the case or investigation.
     3.3.8. Participate in annual base sexual assault exercises conducted by the 4 FW/CV and
     4th Fighter Wing Plans/Evaluations (4 FW/XP).


  3.4. 4 FW/JA
4                               SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-102 26 SEPTEMEBER 2011


       3.4.1. JA will notify the SARC of any sexual assault reports (SARC 722-7272/920-
       7272). Additionally, the JA will explain to the victim that reporting of a sexual assault
       constitutes an unrestricted report that triggers the official investigation process.
       3.4.2. JA will ensure that the victim is aware of his/her rights and options concerning
       their participation in the investigation and prosecution.
       3.4.3. JA should explain to the victim that he/she can decline to be interviewed
       personally by law enforcement officials (e.g., AFOSI special agent or civilian police,
       depending on jurisdiction), however, valuable evidence may be lost, which could
       negatively impact any resulting investigation or prosecution against responsible
       individuals.
       3.4.4. JA should ensure that AFOSI is notified anytime a sexual assault is reported to
       have occurred on property under Air Force jurisdiction or involving military members. If
       the assault occurred on property not under Air Force jurisdiction, the victim may choose
       whether or not to report to civilian law enforcement officials. If the victim chooses to
       report to civilian law enforcement officials, legal personnel can make the initial contact
       on behalf of the victim.
       3.4.5. If the victim does testify, assure the victim that a Victim Advocate will be
       available for support.
       3.4.6. Conduct the investigative interview in a manner that takes victim sensitivity into
       consideration.
       3.4.7. Consider the victim’s wishes if he/she desires to be interviewed in the presence of
       a friend or VA.
       3.4.8. Avoid situations that could place the victim and alleged offender(s) in contact with
       each other, such as scheduling pre-trial appointments with the victim and alleged
       offender(s) at the same time or one immediately following the other, or placing the
       offender(s) and victim in the same court waiting rooms, along with their perspective
       families and friends, etc.
       3.4.9. Keep the victim informed as to the status of the case and other pertinent details.
       3.4.10. Ensure that all JA personnel receive annual first responder training through the
       SAPR Program.
    3.5. AFOSI
       3.5.1. AFOSI has criminal investigative jurisdiction over military members, regardless of
       the location of the offense. AFOSI must be notified of all felony level crimes (barring
       restricted reports of sexual assault) that may involve Air Force members. Therefore, if an
       Air Force member is suspected of perpetrating a sexual assault, AFOSI must be notified.
       3.5.2. Responsible for evidence handling and safe keeping of the Sexual Assault
       Forensic Exam Kit for a period of one year from when it is received by the SARC.
       3.5.3. Explain what law enforcement procedures will occur within the next 24 hours to
       the victim so that he/she is aware of and can anticipate future actions/procedures.
       3.5.4. 4 FW/CV will be notified of all pertinent information in a timely manner.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-102 26 SEPTEMEBER 2011                                                      5


     3.5.5. AFOSI will not divulge information, which may compromise an investigation,
     operation, or trade-craft. AFOSI Detachments are not a repository for statistical data and
     under certain circumstances may not be able to divulge certain data.
     3.5.6. Ensure that all agents receive annual first responder training through the SAPR
     Program.
  3.6. 4 SFS
     3.6.1. Respond to all reports of sexual assault and rape occurring under their jurisdiction.
     Reports of sexual assault and rape to 4 SFS are unrestricted reports.
     3.6.2. Ensure that the victim receives immediate medical care for injuries that warrant
     emergency treatment. If the victim needs immediate medical treatment arrange
     transportation to the nearest MTF.
     3.6.3. Call the SARC at COM/DSN 919-722-7272 or 24 hour cell 919-920-7272.
     3.6.4. Notify AFOSI immediately.
     3.6.5. Notify 4 SFS Investigations.
     3.6.6. If first to arrive at the crime scene, collect only the necessary information (victim’s
     identity, location and time of the incident, name and/or description of the offender),
     taking precautions to secure the crime scene. Do not ask detailed questions and/or
     pressure the victim for responses.
     3.6.7. Take all appropriate measures to apprehend the alleged offender(s).
     3.6.8. Advise the victim not to destroy possible evidence by bathing, douching, changing
     clothes, brushing teeth, using mouthwash, brushing hair, eating, drinking, or cleaning-up
     in any way. If the victim needs to urinate instruct to void in a sealable container. Have a
     sealable bag available to collect emesis.
     3.6.9. Provide support and reassurance to the victim and calm the victim until the SARC
     arrives. Be aware that ambulance lights, police lights or sirens, radio communications,
     and extraneous personnel from the fire and police department not directly involved with
     the case may intimidate victims.
     3.6.10. If the victim needs immediate medical treatment arrange transportation to Wayne
     Memorial Hospital Emergency Department (ED). If the victim chooses, he/she may need
     a sexual assault forensic examination for evidence gathering in addition to treatment for
     physical injuries.
     3.6.11. In cooperation with AFOSI and local law enforcement agencies, advise/assist the
     victim on safety precautions in the event that the alleged offender(s) pose a continuing
     threat.
     3.6.12. Notify the victim’s commanding officer, 4 FW/CC or 916 ARW/CC or group
     commander immediately that a sexual assault has occurred on property under Air Force
     jurisdiction or involving military members, family members, or civilian employees.
     Provide the name, telephone number, status (active duty, reservist on active duty),
     injuries, if any, and location of the victim to the victim’s commanding officer and
     installation commander.
6                               SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-102 26 SEPTEMEBER 2011


       3.6.13. Immediately provide the SARC with the case statistical data necessary for
       completion of the initial and follow-on sexual assault incident data collection.
       3.6.14. Provide the victim with a copy of the Victims’ Rights pamphlet, Attachment 3.
       3.6.15. 4 SFS will be provided with technical guidance and tasking for training of
       security forces personnel involved in prevention of and response to sexual assault.
       Sexual assault training will be provided on-base through continuing education and
       training courses offered by the SARC.
       3.6.16. Ensure that all 4 SFS personnel receive annual first responder training through
       the SAPR Program.
    3.7. 4th Medical Treatment Facility (MTF)
       3.7.1. The MTF ensures that the victim is reasonably protected from the accused
       offender(s) and provides safety for the victim, the clinic, and clinic personnel within the
       limits of the    4 FW/MDG. Security Forces will be contacted as necessary.
       3.7.2. Only notify the SARC COM/DSN 722-7272 or 919-920-7272, so the victim can
       be offered Restricted or Unrestricted Reporting. Only healthcare personnel may receive
       restricted reports of sexual assault. The requirement of AFI 44-102 , Community Health
       Management, paragraph 2.36, to report incidents of sexual assault to the AFOSI or other
       authorities as appropriate is expressly waived. Ensure that it is understood that this only
       applies to “Restricted reports” (based upon the victims’ desires). Otherwise, all felony
       level crimes involving USAF members should be reported to AFOSI.
       3.7.3. If the victim needs immediate medical treatment dial 9-1-1 for emergency services
       and transport to the ED at Wayne Memorial Hospital. The victim will be offered the
       opportunity to have a sexual assault forensic examination in addition to treatment for
       injuries.
       3.7.4. If the ED provider at Wayne Memorial Hospital determines the need for, or the
       victim requests behavioral health services, the SARC will first refer the victim to the 4
       MDG Mental Health. If the victim needs to see or prefers an off base provider, the SARC
       will call the Chief of Medical Staff (4 MDG/SGH, 750-0841) who will enter the referral
       into the system. The SGH may use the ICD-9 diagnosis code in lieu of a detailed
       description of the cause for the referral. The referral will not go into ICDB (Integrated
       Clinical Data Base), but it will be faxed to Health Net. The SARC or VA will brief the
       victim that after 8 visits, the off-base behavioral health provider will have to request
       additional visits, if necessary. Twenty-four hours after the consult has been placed, the
       victim, SARC or VA may call that off-base behavioral provider to schedule an
       appointment.
       3.7.5. Every effort will be made to eliminate unnecessary dissemination of information
       about the sexual assault to protect the victim’s confidentiality. Medical files revealing
       information about a sexual assault will be sequestered and kept separate from the victim’s
       normal medical record.
       3.7.6. During duty hours Mental Health will provide care to victims requiring or
       requesting behavior health services. When trauma counseling and therapy exceed the
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-102 26 SEPTEMEBER 2011                                                  7


     resource capability of the 4 MDG, Mental Health will refer victims to community
     resources.
  3.8. 4th Fighter Wing Chaplains (4 FW/HC)
     3.8.1. A report of sexual assault to a 4 FW/HC is not a restricted report under the new
     SAPR Program policy but it may be a protected communication under the Military Rules
     of Evidence (MRE) or applicable statues and regulations.
     3.8.2. Ensure the victim is reasonably protected from the accused offender(s).
     3.8.3. Provide emotional and spiritual support to the victim and family as requested.
     3.8.4. Encourage the victim to seek appropriate support and advocacy through the
     SARC. If the victim concurs, refer the victim to the SARC by calling 919-722-7272 or
     24 hour cell 919-920-7272. Remain as involved as the victim desires.
     3.8.5. Strongly encourage the victim to seek medical attention regardless of whether the
     victim requires emergency or non-emergency care.
     3.8.6. Ensure that training in basic and advanced courses for chaplains addresses sexual
     assault awareness and prevention and provides guidance concerning a chaplain’s role in
     responding to cases of sexual assault.




                                          PATRICK J. DOHERTY, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                               SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-102 26 SEPTEMEBER 2011


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-60, Sexual Assault Prevention & Response (SAPR) Program, 28 Mar 2008
AFI 31-206, Security Forces Investigations Program, 16 Sep 2009
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 36-6001, Sexual Assault Prevention & Response (SAPR) Program, 29 Sep 2008
AFI 44-102, Medical Care Management, 01 May 2006
AFI 44-109, Mental Health, Confidentiality, and Military Law, 01 Mar 2000
DoD Directive 6495.01, Sexual Assault Prevention & Response (SAPR) Program, 6 Oct 2005
DoD Instruction 6495.02, Sexual Assault Prevention & Response Program Procedures, 23 Jun
2006

Prescribed Forms:
No Prescribed Forms
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviation-Definition
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ED—Emergency Department
MRE—Military Rules of Evidence
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SARC—Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Coordinator
SAPR—Sexual Assault Prevention and Response
SJAFB—Seymour Johnson AFB

Terms
Healthcare Personnel— includes those individuals who are employed or assigned as healthcare
professionals, or are credentialed to provide health care services, at a medical or dental treatment
facility or who are providing such care elsewhere at a deployed location or otherwise in an
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-102 26 SEPTEMEBER 2011                                                         9


official capacity. The term also includes individuals assigned to the Military Treatment Facility
(MTF) who are directed by or assigned to assist or otherwise support healthcare professionals in
providing healthcare services.
Identifying Personal Information— This term applies to the alleged victim or alleged assailant
in a sexual assault, and it that information which could disclose or have a tendency to disclose
the person’s identity. Identifying personal information includes the person’s name or a
particularly identifying description (e.g., physical characteristics or identity by position, rank, or
organization), or other information about the person or the facts and circumstances involved that
could reasonably be understood to identify the person (e.g., a female in a particular squadron or
barracks when there is only 1 female assigned).
Other Sex Related Offenses— all other sexual acts or acts in violation of the Uniform Code of
Military Justice that do not meet the definition of sexual assault contained in AFI 36-6001,
Sexual Assault Prevention and Response (SAPR) Program, or the definition of sexual
harassment contained in AFI 36-2706, Military Equal Opportunity (MEO) Program. Examples
of other sex-related offenses could include indecent acts with another and adultery.
Restricted Reporting— A process used by a Service member to report or disclose that he or she
is the victim of a sexual assault to specified officials on a requested confidential basis. Under
these circumstances, the victim’s report and any details provided to the SARC, Healthcare
Personnel, or a VA will not be reported to law enforcement to initiate an official investigation
unless the victim consents or an established exception is exercised under DoDD 6495.01.
Sexual assault— (The following definition of sexual assault has been directed by DoD and is for
training and educational purposes only. This definition does not affect in any way the definition
of any offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.)
Sexual assault is a crime. Sexual assault is defined as intentional sexual contact, characterized
by use of force, physical treat or abuse of authority or when the victim does not or cannot
consent. Sexual assault includes rape, nonconsensual sodomy (oral or anal sex), indecent assault
(unwanted, inappropriate sexual contact or fondling), or attempts to commit these acts. Sexual
assault can occur without regard to gender or spousal relationship or age of victim.

“Consent” shall not be deemed or construed to mean the failure by the victim to offer physical
resistance. Consent is not given when a person uses force, threat of force, coercion or when the
victim is asleep, incapacitated, or unconscious.
Unrestricted Reporting— A process a Service member uses to disclose, without requesting
confidentiality or restricted reporting, that he or she is the victim of a sexual assault. Under these
circumstances, the victim’s report and any details provided to the SARC, Healthcare Personnel, a
VA, command authorities, or other persons are reportable to law enforcement and may be used
to initiate the official investigation process.
Victim— For the purposes of this instruction, a victim is a person who alleges direct, physical,
emotional, or pecuniary harm as a result of the commission of a sexual assault and who has a
connection with the installation. If the victim is incompetent or incapacitated, the term “victim”
includes one of the following (in order of preference): spouse, legal guardian, parent, child,
sibling, another family member, or another person designated by a court. Victims will be
eligible for and provided services by the Air Force consistent with their legal status. The
 10                            SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-102 26 SEPTEMEBER 2011


services contemplated range from referral to the appropriate civilian or foreign agency to the
provision of all services available to an active duty member. Nothing in this policy shall be
constructed to authorize or require the provision of specific services (such as medical care or
therapeutic counseling) unless the victim has an independent entitlement to such services under
relevant statutes or Department of Defense directives. The restricted reporting option is only
available to those sexual assault victims who are service members.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-102 26 SEPTEMEBER 2011                                                        11


                                           Attachment 2
                ON-CALL VICTIM ADVOCATE RESPONSE CHECKLIST

Safety First: Establish if there was weapon use or major physical force, i.e., strangulation,
restraints, torture, burns, cuts, and a quick abuse/trauma history, etc. Ask for the location of the
alleged perpetrator(s) in relation to the victim, is the victim in a safe location? Does the alleged
perpetrator carry a weapon or have access to a weapon? Remember, in a Restricted Report the
police/SF or AFOSI are not called. Therefore, if the victim requests a Restricted Report you
need to carefully assess the situation for the victim’s safety and your safety before responding
and possibly encourage the victim to make an Unrestricted Report for police protection.
(Reference note 3)

Medical Response: (Are there major physical injuries, i.e., broken bones, missing teeth,
lacerations, burns, etc., do you need to call an ambulance?)

Note: If there are major physical injuries, weapon use, or major physical force the likelihood
greatly increases that the victim will want police and medical attention and subsequently the case
will be Unrestricted. However, if you have a victim who has suffered major physical injuries
that necessitate immediate medical attention, refuses to call the police, and the alleged
perpetrator is in close proximity to the victim then immediately call the SARC and another VA
for support. The SARC will call the CV and the decision to make the case Unrestricted will be
made by the CV. Remember, safety first for the victim and yourself.

Ambulance: Call 722-7588 when you call for an ambulance on-base the SFS and FD also
respond.
Ambulance and Police: Off-base call 911.

Government Vehicle: If there were no major life threatening injuries that would necessitate
calling 911 for the police and/or ambulance and if the victim is not in the same location of the
alleged perpetrator or is going to meet you in a neutral setting call: Vehicle Operations, Building
3101 24/7 or (during duty hours call 722-1299), tell the OIC that you are on the way to SJAFB to
get the SAPR Program reserved vehicle. After hours, call 919-750-2064 to request a vehicle.
There will be a Stand-by Memo with the Command Post (CP) that will have your name and the
SAPR Program cell phone number for the duration of your VA on-call status.

Restricted or Unrestricted: Let the military victim decide if he/she wants a Restricted or
Unrestricted Report and have the victim sign the form. (Ref. attached forms)

If Unrestricted call the SARC:
The SARC will initiate calls to AFOSI. Remember; try not discussing the details of the case
with the victim. The less you know the less you have to say if subpoenaed to testify as a witness
in court by the defense. As a Victim Advocate you provide support for the victim. Do not give
out your address, home or cell phone number.

Before going to the hospital:
 12                             SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-102 26 SEPTEMEBER 2011


If the victim chooses to have a Sexual assault forensic examination (SAFE) be sure to have them
take a change of clothes, undergarments, socks and shoes. If they don’t have clothes, give them
garments that are in the backpack... Don’t forget your backpack, item 9.

While at the hospital: (Wayne Memorial Hospital)
Discuss with the victim on the way to the hospital where they will be staying after being treated
at the hospital (i.e., TLF, family, or friends). The SAFE usually takes three - six hours to
perform. Depending on the extent of the injuries, the victim may have to stay longer for
diagnosis and treatment of injuries sustained in the attack.

Chain of custody of the SAFE Kit:
The SARC will contact AFOSI to have them report to the hospital to obtain custody of SAFE kit
with a restricted report. In unrestricted cases, AFOSI will arrange for custody with ED at
Wayne Memorial Hospital.

     9. Emergency Backpack for the Victim:
If possible, bring a change of clothes for the victim to change into after the medical exam. Use
the following items after the medical exam, the victim can use the bed sheet and pillow on the
way to the hospital if needed:

Restricted, Unrestricted Forms and Statement of Understanding
2 Face towels                Toothpaste
1 wash cloth                 Pair of socks/slippers
Toothbrush                   1 Bath towel
Soap                         Hairbrush
Shampoo                      1 pair sweat pants
        1 shirt

10. Follow-up Support:
If counseling services are needed, the SARC will first refer the victim to the 4 MDG Mental
Health. If the victim prefers to go to an off base provider, the SARC will call the Chief of
Medical Staff (4 MDG/SGH, 722-0841) to enter the referral into the system. The SGH may use
the ICD9 diagnosis code in lieu of a detailed description of the cause for the referral. Every
effort should be made to eliminate unnecessary dissemination of information about the sexual
assault to protect the victim’s confidentiality. The SARC may request a particular doctor, as
long as they are on the Tricare Referral List. The referral goes to the Referral Management
Center (RMC). The RMC faxes the referral directly to the off-base behavioral health provider.
The SARC or VA may call that off-base behavioral provider to schedule an appointment. If the
provider has not received the fax from the RMC yet, the SARC or VA can contact the Case
Manager (722-1575) to help track down the referral. The referral does not go into the HealthNet
system. The off-base behavioral health provider will not send consult reports to the MTF. The
victims’ PCM may request those reports directly from the off base behavioral health provider.
Any medical files revealing information about a sexual assault should be sequestered and kept
separate from the victim’s normal medical record.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-102 26 SEPTEMEBER 2011                                               13


                                        Attachment 3
                     DD FORM 2701 VICTIM RIGHTS PAMPHLET

Select the hyperlink or connect to the website below to access the DD2701 Victim Rights
pamphlet.

http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/eforms/dd2701.pdf
