BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          SEYMOURJOHNSONAFB INSTRUCTION
4TH FIGHTER WING                                                           36-2801

                                                                                2 AUGUST 2012

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                              DEDICATED AIRMAN DETAIL

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 4 FW/CCC                                                             Certified by: 4 FW/CV
                                                                            (Col Gabriel Green)
                                                                                         Pages: 7


This is the initial publication of this instruction. This instruction applies to all squadrons and
tenant units assigned to Seymour Johnson AFB, including all National Guard and Reserve
personnel. This instruction establishes the policies and procedures for implementing and
managing the Seymour Johnson AFB Dedicated Airman Detail. It includes specific guidance
and addresses the responsibilities, purpose, policy and procedures for establishing and
maintaining the detail. Failure to comply with the mandatory provisions of paragraphs 3.3, 3.4,
3.4.1, 3.4.2, 3.4.3, 3.5, and 3.6 of this Seymour Johnson AFB Instruction (SJAFBI) by military
personnel is a violation of Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or Regulation, Uniform Code of
Military Justice (UCMJ), where otherwise not punishable under the UCMJ.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.

1. Purpose and Policy:
   1.1. Purpose. The purpose of Seymour Johnson Dedicated Airman Detail Program is to
   provide a mission and purpose for Airmen who are no longer effective contributing members
   of their respective units due to disciplinary problems or other duty disqualifying factors. The
   Dedicated Airman Detail provides a means of improving base appearance and performing
 2                                      SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-2801 2 AUGUST 2012


     base-wide details by utilizing a previously untapped workforce. This detail will also allow
     monitoring and managing of airmen who may require direct supervision and control.
     1.2. Policy. The Dedicated Airman Detail is tasked by 4 FW/CCC with duties intended to
     enhance the effectiveness, safety, and overall appearance of Seymour Johnson Air Force
     Base. Airmen stationed at Seymour Johnson AFB may be assigned to the detail upon
     request of their respective squadron commanders. Airman may be assigned to the Dedicated
     Airman Detail only after coordination with 4 FW/JA.
        1.2.1. Detail members will not generally be assigned to the Dedicated Airman Detail for
        more than 60 days. If a detail member must remain on the Dedicated Airman Detail for
        more than 60 days, the member’s unit must notify 4 FW/JA and identify the reason(s) for
        the servicemember’s continued presence on the team.
2. Definitions:
     2.1. Dedicated Airman Detail. Includes enlisted personnel (E-6 and below) assigned to
     units at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base who are unable to perform regular duties within
     their unit. Non-Commissioned Officers (NCOs) assigned to the program will be assigned
     duties commensurate with their rank. In rare cases where SNCOs are detailed to the
     program, they will also perform duties commensurate with their rank.
     2.2. Base Details. These are temporary tasks with wing-wide impact beyond the
     responsibility or capability of any one unit.
3. Procedures:
     3.1. Dedicated Airman Detail NCOs. Detail personnel will be directly supervised by a
     designated NCO at all times. At a minimum, there will be one NCO for every 12 airmen in
     the Dedicated Airman Detail. More NCOs may be assigned to supervise the Dedicated
     Airman Detail as authorized by 4 FW/CCC.
        3.1.1. The 4 FW/CCC will select from a pool of nominees provided by the squadron
        commanders. The 4 FW/CC will determine number of nominees to be submitted by each
        group on a pro rata basis.
        3.1.2. Detail NCOs will serve a monthly term on the Dedicated Airman Detail. Once
        selected as a Detail NCO, the Dedicated Airman Detail will be the NCOs primary place
        of duty for the designated month. If it becomes necessary for the NCO to return to his or
        her squadron, the squadron commander or group commander shall provide a replacement
        NCO.
     3.2. Dedicated Airman Detail NCOIC. The Dedicated Airman Detail NCOIC will be
     selected from a pool of SNCO nominees and serve a six-month term. He or she will be
     responsible for management and daily operations of the detail NCOs and work with First
     Sergeants on all matters concerning detail members. The NCOIC of the detail:
        3.2.1. Ensures an attendance report is e-mailed to all First Sergeants daily.
        3.2.2. Authorizes all work assignments and prioritizes work to prevent redundancy.
        3.2.3. Will not assign work that requires special certifications or licenses to operate or
        perform.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-2801 2 AUGUST 2012                                                         3


     3.2.4. Briefs the Command Chief on all issues related to the detail.
     3.2.5. Briefs new personnel on their responsibilities to include duty hours, safety, wear
     of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), wear of uniform, and customs and courtesies.
  3.3. Reporting Procedures. All individuals assigned to the Dedicated Airman Detail will
  report to Building 2010 (Honor Guard entrance) for duty no later than 0630, Monday through
  Friday. Alternate duty locations designated as a place of duty for detail members will be
  identified by the 4 FW/CCC or the Dedicated Airman Detail NCOIC as necessary.
  3.4. Duty Day. Duty hours will be 0630-1830, Monday through Friday. Lunch will
  normally be from 1130 to 1215. Duty hours may be modified only with the written approval
  of 4 FW/CCC.
     3.4.1. Detail members will be expected to conduct personal business during off-duty
     time. Requests by detail members to conduct official business or attend appointments
     approved by the individual’s chain of command during the duty day must be coordinated
     with and approved by the Dedicated Airman Detail NCOIC in advance.
     3.4.2. Detail members may only leave the detail during duty hours if escorted by the
     member’s First Sergeant or an NCO escort designated in writing by the First Sergeant.
     3.4.3. Detail members may be required to make up any time lost as a result of leaving the
     duty area during duty hours.
  3.5. Uniform of the Day. The uniform for Dedicated Airman Detail will be the ABU and
  authorized cold weather gear or rain gear as appropriate. Uniforms will be worn IAW AFI
  36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel. Safety equipment will be
  provided and worn at all times as instructed by the Dedicated Airman Detail NCOs.
  Exceptions to uniform wear requirements will only be allowed upon approval of the 4
  FW/CCC.
  3.6. Prohibited Items. Detail members are prohibited from carrying personal cell phones,
  Blackberries, MP3 Players, IPODs or other electronic communications or entertainment
  devices during duty hours. Likewise, detail members are prohibited from possessing books,
  magazines, or other leisure reading material during duty hours. Detail members are allowed
  to use or possess these items during their lunch break.
  3.7. Relationship to Disciplinary Actions. In many cases, Airmen assigned to the
  Dedicated Airman Detail will be individuals identified for separation from the Air Force due
  to disciplinary problems. However, assignment to the Dedicated Airman Detail is not
  intended to be a punishment, nor is it intended to serve as a rehabilitative tool. Specifically,
  assignment to the Dedicated Airman Detail is not a means to execute Article 15 punishment,
  such as extra duties, or a court-martial sentence of hard labor without confinement.
  Commanders and First Sergeants must consult 4 FW/JA on how to execute punishments
  imposed under Article 15 or by courts-martial sentence.
  3.8. Punitive Regulation. Individuals who violate the procedures listed above will be
  subject to action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.
 4                                      SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-2801 2 AUGUST 2012


4. Legal Issues
     4.1. The Command Chief, the NCOIC and NCOs of the Dedicated Airman Detail are not
     responsible for the legal issues of any Airmen assigned to the detail. Members of the detail
     are not to discuss their legal issues with each other or the supervisors of the detail. Any
     inquiries regarding the legal issues of detail personnel should be directed to legal counsel.
     4.2. First Sergeants should provide a copy of the Duty Limiting Condition (DLC) of any
     member assigned to the Dedicated Airman Detail to the NCOIC of the detail. The NCOIC
     will then assign duties commensurate with the restrictions of the DLC. The NCOIC and
     NCOs of the detail should take precautions to protect any HIPAA or Privacy Act
     Information. The NCOIC should communicate any DLC restrictions to the detail NCOs in
     closed session and should not discuss the DLC of detail personnel in front of other members
     of the detail.
5. Responsibilities:
     5.1. Command Chief. 4 FW/CCC is responsible for the overall administration and control
     of the personnel assigned to the Seymour Johnson Dedicated Airman Detail Program. 4
     FW/CCC will be assisted by the 4 FW Wing Staff Agencies as necessary for consultation and
     review of policies and procedures.
     5.2. Commanders. Commanders of all Airmen stationed at Seymour Johnson AFB may
     determine which Airmen should be assigned to or removed from the Dedicated Airman
     Detail. Assignment to the detail must be in writing. A sample detail letter is included as
     Attachment 2 of this Instruction. Squadron commanders will not assign personnel to the
     detail in order to execute punishments imposed by a courts-martial or accepted nonjudicial
     punishment under Article 15. Squadron commanders cannot assign Airmen to the detail
     without coordinating with 4 FW/JA.
     5.3. First Sergeants. First Sergeants will ensure that all Airmen identified by squadron
     commanders to be assigned to the detail report to the detail. First Sergeants should notify the
     NCOIC of the detail when personnel will be joining or leaving the detail.
     5.4. JA Responsibility. 4 FW/JA will review requests to temporarily assign Airmen to the
     detail to ensure eligibility and identify any potential legal issues that may arise for a
     particular airman.




                                              PATRICK J. DOHERTY, Col, USAF
                                              Commander
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-2801 2 AUGUST 2012                                         5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
AFI36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 Jul 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations-Definitions
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
DLC—Duty Limiting Condition
NCO—Non-Commissioned Officers
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
 6                                      SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-2801 2 AUGUST 2012


                                          Attachment 2
                                       SAMPLE LETTER

Figure A2.1. Sample Letter

MEMORANDUM FOR (Airman Grade, Name)

FROM: 4 XXX/CC

SUBJECT: Assignment to the Dedicated Airman Detail

1. You are temporarily assigned to the Dedicated Airman Detail (DAD). This will be your duty
location from _______________ to _______________. (initial assignment not to exceed 60
days.)

2. Follow the reporting instructions listed below:

      a. Report to Bldg 3506 (Honor Guard entrance) at 0630.
      b. The uniform of the day will be ABUs.
      c. The duty day will be from 0630 to 1830.
      d. DAD personnel are prohibited from carrying cell phones, MP3 players, IPODs, or any
         other electronic devices during duty hours.
      e. DAD personnel are prohibited from possessing books, magazines or any other leisure
         reading materials during duty hours.
      f. Bring a copy of this letter, a list of scheduled appointments, inclement weather gear and
         work gloves.

4. DAD personnel will follow the instructions of the supervisors assigned to them. The
operating instructions for the Dedicated Airman Detail are contained in SJAFBI 26-2801,
Dedicated Airman Detail, DATE. Violations of that instruction or this memorandum are
punishable under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.

5. Sign the letter and return it to me immediately. A copy will be provided for your records. If
you have any questions, contact the First Sergeant.


                                                             SQUADRON CC, Grade, USAF
                                                             Commander


I received this notification letter on _______________, at __________ hours.


                                                                    Name, Grade, USAF
                                                                    SSN
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI36-2801 2 AUGUST 2012   7
