BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  SJ AFB INSTRUCTION 31-201
4TH FIGHTER WING (ACC)                                                                28 DECEMBER 2000

                                                                                                      Security

                                                            JUVENILES, DOMESTIC DISTURBANCES
                                                                 AND PET AND ANIMAL CONTROL



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
               http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 4 SFS/SFO (TSgt Jeff Gardner)                                                 Certified by: 4 SFS/SFO
                                                                                 (Capt William Zimmerman)
Supersedes SJAFBI 31-104, SJAFBI 31-101,                                                          Pages: 14
           SJAFBI 31-106, SJAFBI 31-105                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction establishes the responsibilities of military sponsors for their family members and guests,
establishes the policy and guidelines to be used in the implementation of a juvenile curfew on Seymour
Johnson Air Force Base, defines the Juvenile Restitution Program for Seymour Johnson Air Force Base,
establishes procedures for registration, immunization, disposition of pets and other animals on Seymour
Johnson AFB. All personnel on this installation will be familiar with and comply with the provisions set
forth in this instruction if they own or have custody of a pet. This instruction is applicable to all personnel
assigned or attached to Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, North Carolina.
This instruction is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. All forms required by this instruction are subject
to the provisions of AFI 37-132 and must contain a Privacy Act Statement. The record system required by
this publication is authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8012 and E. O. 9397, 22 Nov 43. Privacy Act system record
number is F071 AF OSI B. Documentation created will be maintained and disposed of IAW AFMAN
37-123 and AFMAN 37-139.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision combines SJAFBI 31-104, Juvenile Curfew, 31-105, Pet and Animal Control and 31-106,
Juvenile Restitution Program, and requires complete review. The instruction is renumbered to remain
consistent with Air Force Instruction 31 series.



1. Control and Supervision of Family Members and Guests.
   1.1. General. This instruction is applicable to all military sponsors residing on Seymour Johnson AFB
   NC and military sponsors and family members living off base who utilize base facilities.
2                                                                 SJAFBI31-201 28 DECEMBER 2000

    1.2. Responsibility. Military heads of families (sponsors) are responsible for the welfare of their fam-
    ilies and for the conduct of their family members and guests.
    1.3. Conduct of Family Member Children:
       1.3.1. Children will be instructed on safety procedures before being allowed to ride bicycles,
       motor scooters, roller blades, or roller skates on base.
       1.3.2. Children must not play in the following areas on-base: streets of housing areas, railroad
       tracks, pond or lake areas, base golf course fairways or greens, Visiting Officer Quarters, Visiting
       Airman Quarters, Temporary Lodging Facilities, vacant family quarters, or other vacant buildings,
       or construction sites.
       1.3.3. In the base housing area, children’s toys must be clear of sidewalks and streets before dark.
       Children will not throw rocks, dirt, mud, sticks, or any other objects, nor will they engage in
       fights.
       1.3.4. Children under 10 years of age will not be left in quarters, automobiles, or other locations
       unless under the supervision of an individual 13 years of age or older. Individuals under the age of
       18 years of age who care for younger children are strongly encouraged to participate in a certified
       baby-sitters' course. Since there are varying degrees of maturity in children, parents will ensure
       that older children have enough experience to care for them properly. They must be able to control
       the children in their care, understand actions to be taken, and take proper action for situations that
       may arise. See Attachment 1 for further guidance

2. Domestic Disturbances
    2.1. Occupants of government quarters will conduct themselves in a proper and moderate manner,
    observing consideration for neighbors and keeping domestic noise to a prudent level.
    2.2. The following are examples of prohibited domestic disturbances:
       2.2.1. Noisy quarreling and assault between sponsors, spouses, or guests.
       2.2.2. Disturbances created by excessively noisy parties, brawls or misconduct.
       2.2.3. Fighting between or by dependents.
    2.3. Violations
       2.3.1. Complaints of on-base domestic disturbances will be directed to the attention of the Secu-
       rity Forces.
           2.3.1.1. A domestic disturbance between residents will be cause for the Security Forces to
           intervene in order to restore order. The First Sergeant or Commander of the individual(s)
           involved will be contacted and will respond to the quarters to ensure another breach of peace
           does not occur. If any local laws or regulations are violated, Security Forces will investigate
           the incident and accomplish an AF Form 3545, Incident/Complaint Report.
       2.3.2. Frequent incidents involving domestic disturbances may result in the sponsor being
       removed from on-base quarters. The Installation Commander may issue instructions to terminate
       quarters of those sponsors whose continued residence on-base is incompatible with the require-
       ments of close quarter community living.
SJAFBI31-201 28 DECEMBER 2000                                                                              3

3. Juvenile Curfew and Restitution Program
   3.1. Definitions:
      3.1.1. Curfew: The time all juveniles must be off the street, out of public places, and in or at
      assigned quarters, or on return from a place of employment.
      3.1.2. Parent/Guardian: Any person having responsibility and legal authority over a juvenile or
      sponsoring a visiting juvenile.
      3.1.3. Responsible Person: Any individual 18 years of age or older.
      3.1.4. Juvenile: Any individual under 18 years of age, excluding active duty military personnel.
      3.1.5. Quarters: On-base family housing assigned to a military member where a juvenile will
      spend the night.
   3.2. Procedures:
      3.2.1. Curfew hours for individuals under the age of 18 years old are 2200 until 0600 Sunday
      through Thursday when a school day follows. All other days, the curfew hours are 2400 until 0600
      hours.
      3.2.2. No juvenile may be on the streets or in a public place on Seymour Johnson AFB after cur-
      few hours except as noted herein. Exceptions will be made for special functions such as Youth
      Center activities, school functions, etc., or if the juvenile is returning from work.
          3.2.2.1. For approved special functions, a 30-minute grace period will be allowed upon com-
          pletion of the activity or special function to enable juveniles to return to their respective quar-
          ters.
          3.2.2.2. After curfew, juveniles returning from off-base activities are only authorized to pro-
          ceed from the installation gate to their quarters.
      3.2.3. Violators of the curfew will be detained and escorted to the Security Forces Desk. Parents,
      guardians, or sponsors will be contacted to respond to the SFD. Upon arrival of the parent, guard-
      ian, or sponsor, security forces personnel will advise the juveniles of their rights using an AF Form
      1168, Statement of Suspect/Witness/Complainant. Once the interview has been terminated they
      will release the juveniles via DD Form 2708, Receipt for Inmate or Detained Person and
      accomplish an AF Form 3545, Incident Report.
      3.2.4. Frequent or repeat violations may result in the sponsor being removed from on-base quar-
      ters or barment of the juvenile at the discretion of the Installation Commander.
      3.2.5. This curfew does not apply when a juvenile is in the company of their parent/guardian or
      another responsible adult. If the responsibility of a person accompanying a juvenile is in doubt, the
      juvenile’s parents will be contacted for confirmation.
   3.3. Juvenile Restitution Program
      3.3.1. This instruction defines the Juvenile Restitution Program for Seymour Johnson Air Force
      Base and is applicable to all military sponsors and their family members assigned or attached to
      Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, North Carolina. This program is designed to provide positive
      motivation and correct minor misbehavior of military family members, age’s 16 years or younger
4                                                            SJAFBI31-201 28 DECEMBER 2000

    through supervised constructive work. Participation in the program is voluntary. The program also
    supports the Wayne County Juvenile System on request when program space is available.
    3.3.2. Procedure: When a Security Forces investigation determines a military family member
    aged 16 years or younger has been involved in minor misconduct on the installation, the following
    process occurs:
       3.3.2.1. Cases involving serious misconduct, i.e., aggravated assault, arson, carrying con-
       cealed firearms, etc., will be referred to the Goldsboro Police Department and/or Wayne
       County Juvenile Court.
       3.3.2.2. Security Forces Administration (SFA) Branch reviews all Security Forces incident
       reports and Security Forces investigation case briefs weekly for juvenile involvement. SFA
       then forwards a letter through the military magistrate or designee to the military sponsor of the
       implicated juveniles informing them they must attend a mandatory hearing to discuss their
       family member’s misconduct.
           3.3.2.2.1. Both the family member and the active duty sponsor or retired sponsor or
           spouse of deceased sponsor must attend the hearing. Neither the sponsor nor dependent(s)/
           family member(s) may be represented by counsel at the hearing. A Security Forces mem-
           ber and Family Support Center representative are highly encouraged to be in attendance to
           provide recommendations to the magistrate. The Juvenile Restitution Program will be dis-
           cussed during the hearing with emphasis that participation in the program is voluntary.
           3.3.2.2.2. The magistrate weighs the facts of each case and determines the number of
           hours of community service time the juvenile performs. (NOTE: The parent/guardian are
           highly encouraged to attend the first 4 hours of their family member’s community service).
    3.3.3. Repeat offenders will be subject to increased number of hours of service. Third time
    offenders will be considered for barment from the installation or loss of sponsor’s base housing
    privileges.
    3.3.4. Juveniles participating in the program perform constructive community service work on
    specified days from 0800-1600 hours under the supervision of the Security Forces.
       3.3.4.1. Juveniles must sign the “Juvenile Restitution Sign-In Log” at the Visitor Center prior
       to commencing community service work. Prior to departing the installation, juveniles must
       sign out at the Visitor Center.
       3.3.4.2. The 4 SFS Crime Prevention Manager is responsible for monitoring the juvenile’s
       progress and ensuring the community service commitment is fulfilled.
    3.3.5. Upon successful completion of the sanctions, such as withdrawal of Base Exchange privi-
    leges, the 4th Support Group Commander may remit privileges. Sanctions will be held in abey-
    ance during the restitution period.
    3.3.6. Other sanctions, such as debarment from base and loss of base housing privileges may be
    avoided through participation in the program.
    3.3.7. A Security Forces representative supervises all work performed by juveniles in the pro-
    gram. The work must not be inherently dangerous or demeaning, but difficult enough to provide a
    meaningful experience and deterrent to future misconduct. Types of work include picking up litter,
    washing and waxing base vehicles, and cleaning/repairing vandalism within the capabilities of the
SJAFBI31-201 28 DECEMBER 2000                                                                           5

     juvenile. The 4th Support Group Commander may direct other base agencies to provide additional
     personnel to the Security Forces to assist in providing adequate supervisors or to provide an
     opportunity for other community service work.
     3.3.8. The minimum community service given should be 16 hours. Hours above this should be
     based upon the facts of the case; the severity of the offense; and prior record of the family member.
     Incidents are divided into three classes, with Class 1 the least severe. Judgment for multiple
     offenses should start with the most severe class of offense, adding appropriate time for lesser
     offenses from the incident. The following is only a guide to serve the magistrate. It is not intended
     to substitute for good judgment.
        3.3.8.1. Class 1 Offense: Minimum of 16 hours and maximum of 39 hours for 1st offense.
            • Curfew violation
            • Provoking speech
            • Traffic complaint
            • Creating a public nuisance (loud noise complaint, creating safety hazards in streets)
            • Theft of government or personal property ($1.00 - $49.99 value)
            • Damage/destruction of government or personal property ($1.00 - $100.00)
            • Sponsorship violation (includes failure to control guest(s)) in base exchange resulting
                in shoplifting or disturbances
            • Vandalism, minor (easily removed graffiti)
        3.3.8.2. Class 2 Offense: First offense minimum of 40 hours and maximum of 79 hours.
            • Shoplifting
            • Trespassing
            • Underage drinking
            • Communicating a threat
            • Disorderly conduct
            • Obscene telephone calls
            • Misuse of 9-1-1 system
            • Altering an official government document
            • Fraudulent use or possession of a government identification card
            •   Obstructing a Security Forces member in performance of their duties
            •   Larceny ($50.00 -$100.00)
            •   Breaking and entering an unoccupied dwelling or government building
            •   Fleeing the scene of an accident
            •   Simple assault
            •   Theft or destruction of government property ($50.00 - $99.99)
            •   Juvenile affray (fighting), all involved parties should receive community service time
            •   Vandalism, such as breaking windows or difficult to remove graffiti
6                                                                SJAFBI31-201 28 DECEMBER 2000

           3.3.8.3. Class 3 Offense: Minimum of 80-160 hours.
               • Second Class 2 offense
               • Third minor Class 1 offense, base barment should be considered
               • Illegal use or possession of a controlled substance
               • Disorderly conduct
               • Vandalism resulting in property destruction
               • Theft, damage, or destruction of Government property ($100.00 and above)
               • Aggravated assault without a weapon
           3.3.8.4. The following may result in a recommendation Base Barment:
               • Aggravated assault with a weapon
               • Carrying a concealed weapon
               • Accidental firearms discharge with or without injuries
               •   Arson, minor (i.e., no major property damage or lives threatened)
               •   Distribution of a controlled substance
       3.3.9. Security Forces Commander is responsible for reviewing effectiveness of the program.
       3.3.10. Upon conclusion of the juvenile’s service period, participating sponsors will be surveyed
       for inputs to improve the program and the impression the program had on their family members.
       3.3.11. Data reflecting repeat offenders and juvenile crime rates will be analyzed to determine the
       efficiency of the program.
       3.3.12. The Security Forces Commander will report adverse trends to the 4th Support Group
       Commander.

4. Pet and Animal Control
    4.1. Definitions:
       4.1.1. Animal-Inflicted Injury: Any scratch, abrasion, or puncture of the skin, which an animal
       inflicts on a human or another animal by biting or scratching, or otherwise directly caused by that
       animal.
       4.1.2. Animal-Caused Injury: An injury to a human or other animal, not fitting within the defini-
       tion of Animal-Inflicted Injury, that would not have occurred but for that human’s or other ani-
       mal’s encounter with an animal. Example: A large dog jumps up on a person, causing the person
       to fall back on a concrete surface, breaking a bone.
       4.1.3. Attending Veterinarian: SJAFB has no veterinarian assigned for animal control. An attend-
       ing veterinarian is assigned by CDR, MID-Atlantic District Veterinary Command and currently
       stationed at Fort Bragg.
       4.1.4. Control: Having the pet on a leash held by a person of sufficient size and maturity to safely
       direct the movement and position of the pet, or having the pet confined to a house or fenced yard
       so the pet may not leave the enclosed area.
SJAFBI31-201 28 DECEMBER 2000                                                                                 7

 NOTE: Having a pet tied or chained in an open yard or under voice control does not serve as control
under this instruction.
       4.1.5. Immunize: The application by a military or licensed civilian veterinarian of an approved
       biological product to an animal in order to provide immunity against a specific disease entity.
       4.1.6. Owner/Care Provider: Any individual attached or assigned to Seymour Johnson AFB, who
       has a pet in their care or control, or permits a pet to remain on the premises of Seymour Johnson
       AFB.
       4.1.7. Stray Animals: Any animal unattended or wandering at large and giving the appearance of
       being homeless (e.g. not wearing a collar, harness, registration tag, or any form of identification
       media).
       4.1.8. Uncontrolled Animal: Any animal that is unattended or wandering at large (e.g. not on a
       leash or in a fenced in area), but is wearing a collar, harness, registration tag, or a form of identifi-
       cation media.
       4.1.9. Pets: Pets authorized on base excluding dormitories include domestic dogs, cats, caged
       birds, fish, and small rodents (hamsters, guinea pigs, gerbils, and mice), provided the owner meets
       all responsibilities of this instruction. Any mammal (to include ferrets), or birds, that could be con-
       sidered livestock, or wild will not be allowed on base and is not considered a pet under the concept
       of this instruction. Exotic animals will be approved on a case by case basis by the 4 SPTG/CC after
       consulting with the base vet. Fish aquariums are permitted in base housing, dormitories, and work
       stations if permitted by supervisor.
       4.1.10. Animal Abuse/Neglect: Animal abuse/neglect includes, but is not limited to, such
       offenses as physical abuse, lack of adequate food, water, and shelter, failure to pick up and dispose
       of animal waste in a timely manner, or failure to obtain medical care for diseased and injured ani-
       mals. This includes current rabies, distemper, and other required annual vaccinations.
       4.1.11. Hunting: The killing of wild animals and birds for the purpose of sport or consumption.
       4.1.12. Trapping: The capture of wild animals and birds by any man made device.
   4.2. Registration, Immunization, and Parasite Control.
       4.2.1. Registration: All pets kept on Seymour Johnson AFB will be registered with the Base Vet-
       erinarian Clinic, Building 2509, within ten days of bringing the pet onto base.
       4.2.2. Immunization and Parasite Control: All dogs and cats, which are on Seymour Johnson
       AFB, will be immunized against rabies at the age of four months and thereafter in accordance with
       North Carolina law. Dogs and cats will also be current for vaccinations deemed necessary by the
       attending veterinarian. This includes, but is not limited to, distemper/parvo vaccinations, for dogs
       and rhinovirus/calicivirus vaccinations for cats. In addition, dogs and cats maintained on-base
       shall be checked for intestinal parasites (worms) within two weeks of moving on-base and a min-
       imum of yearly thereafter. Dogs will be checked regularly for heartworm disease and will be
       maintained on a heartworm preventative.
           4.2.2.1. Rabies immunization will be documented by the Veterinary Treatment Facility (Bldg
           #2509) on DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination Certificate. The original DD Form 2208 plus
           a metal vaccination tag will be given to the owner at the time the vaccination is accomplished.
           A copy of the certificate will be maintained in the Veterinary Treatment Facility. The animal
8                                                                 SJAFBI31-201 28 DECEMBER 2000

           will wear the metal tag at all times. This process constitutes animal registration.
    4.3. Expense
       4.3.1. Care of Animal: The owner will pay expenses incident to the registration, immunization,
       impoundment, quarantine and treatment of pets.
       4.3.2. Personnel and Property: The owner of any pet can be held responsible for any expenses
       incurred by the Base Clinic or local hospitals in the treatment of any person for injury inflicted or
       damage to property as the result of the pet owner’s failure to control their pet.
    4.4. Control of Animals and Pets
       4.4.1. General: Pets must reside in the house or be kept in a fenced yard. Pets may not be chained
       or tied in an open yard. Unless the owner obtains prior written approval from the Commander, 4
       SPTG, the owner will not have more than two, four legged pets per residence on Seymour Johnson
       AFB.
           4.4.1.1. Owners must maintain control of pets at all times when the pet is located on Seymour
           Johnson AFB. Pets will not disturb the peace or become a nuisance or threat to other animals,
           persons or property (i.e., constant barking, loose, barking between the hours of 2200 and
           0600).
           4.4.1.2. Female animals in heat will be confined to the owner’s house or fenced yard to avoid
           disturbances and congregation of animals.
       4.4.2. Prohibited: Pet owners will not permit their pets to excrete waste matter on the lawns of
       other housing occupants or in common areas such as streets or sidewalks. If this is done, pet own-
       ers are responsible for cleaning up after their pets. Animal excretion will not be allowed to build
       up in one’s own yard. Excretion will be removed from owner’s yards as soon as possible or at least
       on a daily basis.
           4.4.2.1. Pets will not be left unattended in vehicles while on the installation.
           4.4.2.2. Pets, with the exception of handicap assistance animals and Military Working Dogs,
           will not be permitted in the following buildings:
               1. Hospital
               2. Base Exchange and Commissary
               3. Food service facilities
               4. Swimming pool areas and clubs
               5. Theater
               6. Guest housing and transient quarters
               7. Dormitories
               8. Lodging
               9. Hurricane Shelters
               10. Any other places where pets are determined by the attending veterinarian or Environ-
                   mental Health Officer to be a health hazard.
               11. Other public buildings as determined by the Commander, 4 SPTG.
SJAFBI31-201 28 DECEMBER 2000                                                                            9

         4.4.2.3. An owner will not abandon a pet upon departure from this base or under any other cir-
         cumstances.
     4.4.3. Violations: Complaints concerning damage, injury, or constant nuisance caused by pets or
     other animals will be reported to the 4th Security Forces Squadron. The Security Forces will pre-
     pare an AF Form 3545, Incident Report.
  4.5. Uncontrolled Animals
     4.5.1. Responsibility: Wayne County Animal Control (WCAC) is responsible for the capture and
     control of stray domesticated animals during normal duty hours of 0730-1630, Monday through
     Friday. The Security Forces Squadron will assume control after duty hours, weekends, and holi-
     days. In the event of a vicious or suspected rabies infected animal, only WCAC will attempt to
     capture the animal.
         4.5.1.1. Entomology and/or WCAC are the only authorized authorities to capture wild ani-
         mals (e.g. raccoons, fox, etc.).
     4.5.2. Violations: Owners of animals will be responsible for any fees assessed by Wayne County
     Animal Control or Security Forces for picking up or retrieving their animals.
     4.5.3. When the Security Forces Desk receives a call during duty hours concerning a stray animal,
     the caller will be referred to the Goldsboro Police Department at 736-4933 and advised to ask for
     Wayne County Animal Control.
     4.5.4. Whenever a patrolman observes a stray animal during duty hours, the Security Forces Desk
     will contact Goldsboro Police/Wayne County Animal Control at 736-4933 for a stray animal pick
     up.
     4.5.5. When the Security Forces Desk receives a call, after duty hours, for a stray animal, they
     will dispatch a patrolman to capture, place in a crate, and transport the animal to the holding facil-
     ity. Note: MWD personnel or assigned K-9 vehicle will not be utilized in any manner to capture or
     transport stray animals.
         4.5.5.1. Patrolmen attempting to capture stray animals should roll down their sleeves, wear
         leather gloves, and utilize the capture noose.
     4.5.6. Personnel making inquires about their lost animal should be directed to call the Wayne
     County Animal Control (WCAC) at 731-1439.
  4.6. Veterinarian Responsibilities
     4.6.1. Establish and monitor quarantine for all animal inflicted injuries treated at the Base Clinic.
  4.7. Animal Bites and Animal Caused Injuries
     4.7.1. Any person who is a victim of animal inflicted injury or animal caused injury will report to
     the Base Clinic for treatment and/or observation IAW AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Operations
     or to Wayne Memorial Hospital during non-duty hours.
     4.7.2. Pets involved in a biting incident on base will be quarantined for ten days immediately fol-
     lowing the incident. Animals with a current rabies vaccination will be quarantined at home. Ani-
     mals without a current rabies vaccination will be quarantined at the Wayne County Animal Shelter
     or a civilian veterinary office at the owner’s expense. A rabies quarantine at home will be initiated
     only if the owner’s safeguards are deemed adequate by the Veterinary Treatment Facility. Pets
10                                                               SJAFBI31-201 28 DECEMBER 2000

        under quarantine will be presented by the owner for observation at the Veterinary Treatment Facil-
        ity office as required.
           4.7.2.1. Any animal involved in a biting incident that dies during the quarantine period will be
           immediately presented to the Veterinary Treatment Facility for preparation and transportation
           to the appropriate medical laboratory to accomplish laboratory examination for rabies. Care
           must be taken to avoid damage to the head or brain tissue of such animals. If the animal dies
           after duty hours, contact the Goldsboro Police Department at 736-4933 and advise them to
           make contact with Wayne County Animal Control. Brief GPD or WCAC Officer that the ani-
           mal was in quarantine, became ill, and died.
           4.7.2.2. Any animal (other than dogs or cats) involved in a biting incident should immediately
           be captured or killed, with care taken to avoid damage to the head or brain of said animals, and
           presented to the attending Veterinarian so that laboratory examination or observation for rabies
           may be accomplished.
           4.7.2.3. Upon receiving a complaint of an animal inflicted injury, the Security Forces will
           investigate the matter immediately. If the owner of the animal can be identified, an AF Form
           3545 will be completed. The AF Form 3545 will contain sufficient information to enable the
           Commander, 4 SPTG to determine whether or not the pet should be allowed to remain on base.
           The report is required to contain the following information as a minimum:
               4.7.2.3.1. Victim’s statement
               4.7.2.3.2. Pet owner’s statement
               4.7.2.3.3. Other supporting statements or documents
               4.7.2.3.4. Attempt to determine if the animal was provoked
               4.7.2.3.5. Attempt to determine if the animal was controlled
               4.7.2.3.6. Any other data that would allow the 4 SPTG Commander to further determine
               the case
           4.7.2.4. The completed AF Form 3545 with all applicable attachments will be forwarded to
           the base Legal Office with a copy to the Veterinary Treatment Facility no later than five work-
           ing days after the incident occurs.
           4.7.2.5. At the conclusion of the quarantine period, the Veterinary Treatment Facility will for-
           ward copies of DD Form 2341, Animal Bite/Scratch Report and Rabies Quarantine Noti-
           fication, to the hospital and Public Health Department at 4 MDG Medical Clinic.
           4.7.2.6. Upon review of the available information submitted by the Security Forces and Veter-
           inary Treatment Facility personnel, the Legal Office will make a recommendation of the
           appropriate action of the 4 SPTG Commander.
     4.8. Removal of an Animal from Seymour Johnson AFB
        4.8.1. The Commander, 4 SPTG may order the temporary impoundment of any animal and may
        order any animal to be removed from Seymour Johnson AFB at any time when, in his/her opinion,
        such action is necessary.
     4.9. Disposal of Dead or Unwanted Animals
SJAFBI31-201 28 DECEMBER 2000                                                                          11

     4.9.1. Owners are responsible for disposing of any animal when directed by the attending Veteri-
     narian or other authority.
         4.9.1.1. When an animal is no longer desired as a pet, the owner is responsible for legally dis-
         posing of it or finding a new home for it. The appropriate civil agency may be contacted for
         advice on disposal of animals. No animal will be released or disposed of on Seymour Johnson
         AFB.
     4.9.2. The 4th Civil Engineer Squadron (4 CES) is responsible for the pick-up and disposal of
     dead animals found on Seymour Johnson AFB. Reports of dead animals should be made to Secu-
     rity Forces who will in turn advise 4 CES, Entomology, of the need for pick-up and disposal.
  4.10. Animal Abuse and Neglect
     4.10.1. Along with the privilege of maintaining animals on Seymour Johnson AFB comes the
     responsibility for housing them in a healthy and humane manner. Animal abuse or neglect has
     serious consequences and will not be tolerated on this installation.
     4.10.2. Suspected cases of animal abuse/neglect will be reported to the 4th Medical Group/Veter-
     inary Services. Once a complaint is received, the following actions will be taken:
         4.10.2.1. The 4th Security Forces Squadron, 4th Civil Engineer Squadron, and the Family
         Housing Office will be notified of the complaint.
         4.10.2.2. A representative of the Security Forces will accompany personnel from the Veteri-
         nary Service Office to investigate the complaint and issue a notification letter to the occupant.
         Both Veterinary Services and the Security Forces will complete a joint report on the alleged
         animal abuse/neglect case. The report will include the initial complaint, specific findings, rec-
         ommended corrective action, and follow-up findings.
         4.10.2.3. If corrective action has not been taken within 72 hours, a final report will be for-
         warded to the Chief, Security Forces; Chief, Family Housing; Commander of the individual
         concerned; and Commander, 4 SPTG.
  4.11. Hunting within the confines of Seymour Johnson AFB is prohibited, unless given written per-
  mission by 4 SPTG/CC. All North Carolina laws and regulations will be complied with.
  4.12. Trapping within the confines of Seymour Johnson AFB is prohibited.
  4.13. Fishing within the confines of Seymour Johnson AFB is allowed with a current North Carolina
  fishing license. All North Carolina and SJAFB laws and regulations will be complied with.
     4.13.1. Fishing is prohibited at the end of the runway (EOR) in between the no fishing signs.



                                        DAVID A. DELLEVOLPE, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander, 4th Fighter Wing
12                                                           SJAFBI31-201 28 DECEMBER 2000

                                          Attachment 1

                          ON-BASE YOUTH SUPERVISION GUIDELINES


Age of Left          Left With- Left      Walk to      Outside     Left in Car Child   Child
Child Without        out Sitter Alone     School       Unattended Unattended Sits Sib- Sits Oth-
       Sitter in     in Quar- Overnight   Unat-        (To include             lings   ers
       Quarters      ters for             tended       Playing)
       for 2 hours   more than
       or Less       2 Hours
New- No              No        No         No           No            No       No       No
born
thru
Age 4
Age 5 No             No        No         No; how-     Yes; play-   No        No       No
thru                                      ever chil-   ground or
Age 6                                     dren 6       yard with
                                          years AND    immediate
                                          in 1st       access (in
                                          Grade or     visual sight
                                          above may    or hearing
                                          walk to      distance) to
                                          and from     adult super-
                                          school w/    vision**
                                          out adult
                                          supervi-
                                          sion**
Age 7   No           No        No         Yes          Yes; in         No     No       No
thru                                                   neighbor-
Age 9                                                  hood or at
                                                       neighbor-
                                                       hood play-
                                                       ground;
                                                       adult super-
                                                       vision**
                                                       must know
                                                       where the
                                                       child is at all
                                                       times and
                                                       make fre-
                                                       quent checks
                                                       to insure the
                                                       child’s safety
SJAFBI31-201 28 DECEMBER 2000                                                                          13

Age of Left          Left With-    Left      Walk to      Outside     Left in Car Child   Child
Child Without        out Sitter    Alone     School       Unattended Unattended Sits Sib- Sits Oth-
       Sitter in     in Quar-      Overnight Unat-        (To include             lings   ers
       Quarters      ters for                tended       Playing)
       for 2 hours   more than
       or Less       2 Hours
Age 10 Yes*, with    Yes*, with    No         Yes         Yes           Yes; keys   No           No
thru   ready         responsi-                                          must be
Age 11 access to     ble adult**                                        removed and
       an            with ready                                         handbrake
       adult*/**     access                                             applied
                     (within 5                                          (weather
                     minutes of                                         permitting)
                     child)
Age 12 Yes           Yes*          No; how- Yes           Yes           Yes, keys     No, age    No, age
thru 14                            ever, 14                             removed and   13 or      13 years
                                   years and                            handbrake     older      of age
                                   older w/                             applied.      may sit    mini-
                                   ready                                (weather      sib-       mum***
                                   access to                            permitting)   lings***
                                   responsi-
                                   ble
                                   adult****
Age 15 Yes           Yes           Yes, NTE Yes           Yes           Yes           Yes        Yes
thru HS                            5 consecu-
Gradu-                             tive nights
ation                              per week;
                                   no visitors
                                   allowed in
                                   the home
                                   w/out
                                   approval
                                   by par-
                                   ent****
* Home-Alone training by Youth Center, Family Advocacy or other base approved source strongly sug-
gested
** Adult (18 yrs or older) on this table is defined as someone who has or assumes responsibility for the
child
*** Has successfully completed babysitting training course approved by base
**** If a child is to be left home alone overnight a medical power of attorney must be obtained and in the
hands of a responsible adult
