BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          SEYMOUR JOHNSON AFB
4TH FIGHTER WING                                                      INSTRUCTION 31-135

                                                                            6 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                                         Security

                                                                  OPERATION NIGHT HAWK

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for download or ordering on the e-
               Publishing web site at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 4 SFS/S5P                                                            Certified by: 4 SFS/CC
                                                                             (Maj Jim D. Alves)
                                                                                          Pages: 5


The purpose of this publication is to establish procedures for mandatory urinalysis of active duty
military members as directed by the 4 FW/CC. All 4 FW personnel are responsible for knowing
the information contained within this publication and complying with its procedures. The ability
of personnel, designated by the 4 FW/CC, to rapidly execute Operation Night Hawk procedures
is paramount to the maintenance of law and order to any and all units assigned to Seymour
Johnson AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command.
1. Purpose:
   1.1. This publication provides an overview and guidance to key agencies that support
   Operation Night Hawk. In addition, this operating instruction provides guidance to vehicular
   occupants and drivers identified during Operation Night Hawk. 4 FW/CC is concerned about
   standards of readiness of 4th Fighter Wing personnel. A random inspection under Military
   Rules of Evidence (MRE) 313(b), Manual for Courts-Martial, Military Rules of Evidence is
   ordered to ensure the security, military fitness, and good order and discipline of the
   installation and its members. Furthermore, this inspection is to ensure proper standards of
   readiness are being maintained. When notified of commencement of Operation Night Hawk,
 2                                   SEYMOUR JOHNSONAFBI31-135 6 FEBRUARY 2012


     all previously tasked units will report as directed with a sense of urgency to achieve total
     force strength.
2. Overview:
     2.1. Operation Night Hawk will be a joint event involving several branches encompassing
     the 4 FW (see paragraph 5 for additional information). However, the primary POC
     facilitating Operation Night Hawk will be 4 SFS/S3.
     2.2. 4 FW/CC will order a random urinalysis inspection of a designated number of military
     members entering SJAFB, in conjunction with a random vehicle inspection.
        2.2.1. Date, time, and location will be designated by the 4 FW/CC.
        2.2.2. Testing will be conducted using the Drug Demand Reduction Program urinalysis
        test.
        2.2.3. Members subject to the urinalysis inspection include regular Active Duty and
        Reservists and National Guard members in Title 10 status (Inactive Duty Training,
        Active Duty, and/or Annual Training).
        2.2.4. All tasked units executing Operation Night Hawk duties will be directed to rally at
        a pre-designated location (other than the target location) for the pre-brief.
3. Procedures:
     3.1. Upon arriving to SJAFB vehicle operators will be given instructions by Security Forces
     personnel (including contract gate guards). Security Forces personnel will instruct the driver
     (and occupants if applicable) to report to the designated area where notification of urinalysis
     will be made. As outlined in 2.2.3. those subject to urinalysis inspection will be directed to
     designated area for testing. Anyone subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)
     will be identified for urinalysis. All others (contractors, single dependents, retirees) will be
     subject to vehicle inspection in accordance with section 21 of the Internal Security Act of
     1950 and section 797 of Title 50, United States Code. Those personnel who are not subject
     to urinalysis will be either given the option to wait in their vehicle or to wait inside the
     designated location. Prior to departure, the military occupants will be required to present
     their military ID cards and sign acknowledgment of the random urinalysis inspection order in
     duplicate. They will then be directed to enter the designated area for testing. The military
     occupants will keep one copy of the order. Security Forces representative will obtain
     original signed acknowledgement of random urinalysis inspection order from military
     occupant. Security Forces will make a copy of the urinalysis inspection order, at the
     designated location, and keep it for their records. The original urinalysis inspection order for
     each military occupant will be forwarded to Drug Demand. Each member selected for
     testing will be verbally ordered to discontinue use of all cellular telephones and any other
     communication devices. Each member will be also ordered not to discuss the inspection with
     anyone until Operation Night Hawk terminates.
     3.2. The following procedures will apply for any dependents with the military member
     ordered to submit to urinalysis testing during the sample.
        3.2.1. Dependents at the age of 16 or older will have the option to stay in the vehicle or
        to wait inside the designated location.
SEYMOUR JOHNSONAFBI31-135 6 FEBRUARY 2012                                                         3


      3.2.2. Dependents below the age of 16 will be escorted by a guardian to the designated
      location waiting room while the identified member provides their sample.
          3.2.2.1. If the identified parent/guardian is uncomfortable with designated personnel
          watching their child, do not separate the child from their parent/guardian. Security
          Forces will allow prior identified member to call someone to pick up their child at
          designated location.
   3.3. Urinalysis testing will be accomplished in accordance with Drug Demand Reduction
   Program procedures and AFI 44-120, Military Drug Demand Reduction Program.
      3.3.1. Observers for the urinalysis testing will be Senior NCOs meeting the qualifications
      of AFI 44-120.
          3.3.1.1. Observers shall be in the ratio of four males to one female at all times.
          3.3.1.2. The Drug Demand Reduction Program Manager (DDRPM) or Drug Testing
          Program Administrative Manager (DTPAM) shall train observers prior to the
          observers assuming their duties.
          3.3.1.3. At the completion of urinalysis testing, observers will assist in ensuring
          100% accountability between members who signed acknowledgement forms and
          those that signed in and submitted a urinalysis test.
   3.4. This process will occur, as outlined in paragraphs 4.1 through 4.3., until the required
   number of military members has been tested or until the predetermined termination time as
   ordered by the 4 FW/CC.
   3.5. In addition to the Random Urinalysis, a 4 SFS Military Working Dog (MWD) Team
   will conduct Random Vehicle Inspections at designated locations during designated time
   periods, regardless of the driver’s status (active duty, dependent, visitor, etc.). The random
   selection will vary and will be briefed to all tasked units involved in this operation. The
   following example template will be followed:
      SAMPLE TIME            SAMPLE RANDOM SELECTION
      1800-1810 hours        Every 12 vehicles outbound/ inbound
      1811-1830 hours        Every 25 vehicles outbound/ inbound
      1831-1839 hours        Every 2 vehicles outbound/ inbound
      1840-1850 hours        Every 11 vehicles outbound/ inbound
      1851-1915 hours        Every 9 vehicle outbound/ inbound
4. Tasked Units:
   4.1. 4 FW/JA will have a representative present at the designated location for consultation.
   4.2. 4 MDOS/CC will ensure all the proper equipment is set up at the designated location
   and Drug Demand Reduction Office has enough supplies and personnel available for the
   testing operation. At a minimum the following medical personnel are required to participate:
   ADAPT manager, DDRPM, and DTPAM.
   4.3. 4 FW/CCC will coordinate with Group Chiefs to include SNCOs as observers in the
   ratio required by paragraph 3.3.1.1.
4                                   SEYMOUR JOHNSONAFBI31-135 6 FEBRUARY 2012


    4.4. Group Superintendents will each provide one individual in the rank of E-7 or above for
    this operation. Each SNCO selected will be the 4 FW/CC’s representative and issue the
    random urinalysis order to the identified individual. Group/ Superintendents will identify, to
    the 4 MSG/CD, the name of the selected SNCO. 4 MSG/CD will coordinate with 4 SFS/S3
    time and location for selected individuals to meet prior to the start of the operation. Selected
    members will remain at the designated location for the entire operation.
    4.5. 4 SFS/CC will provide extra personnel at the designated location to accommodate
    operations as detailed above. 4 SFS will also provide at least one (1) MWD team to support
    random vehicle inspections. In addition, 4 SFS will prepare the random urinalysis order in
    sufficient numbers for the operation after JA review and 4 FW/CC signature.
    4.6. 4 FW/PA will coordinate to have reporter/photographer on site to ensure maximum
    coverage of the operation.
    4.7. 4 EMS/CC will provide three (3) light-all units. Location/placement of the units will be
    determined by the 4 SFS/S3.
5. Command and Control:
    5.1. Prior knowledge of the operation will be granted to personnel on a “need-to-know”
    basis only. Units involved will designate trusted agents to work the operation order.
    5.2. Additional Security Forces personnel will not be briefed until two (2) hours prior to the
    designated start. Existing radio and landline communications will be used to communicate
    any difficulties or situations (abusive behavior, reluctance) during the operation.




                                              PATRICK J. DOHERTY, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
SEYMOUR JOHNSONAFBI31-135 6 FEBRUARY 2012                            5


                                     ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 08 October 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFI 44-120, Military Drug Demand Reduction Program, 3 January 2011
Internal Security Act of 1950, 23 September 1950
Manual for Court Martial, 2008
Title 50, United States Code, 2006
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations—Definition
AD—Active Duty
ADAPT—Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention Treatment
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
DDRPM—Drug Demand Reduction Program Manager
DTPAM—Drug Testing Program Administrative Manager
ID—Identification
JA—Judge Advocate
MWD—Military Working Dog
MRE—Military Rules of Evidence
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SNCO—Senior Non-Commissioned Officer
