BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 SEYMOUR JOHNSON AIR FORCE BASE
4TH FIGHTER WING                                                                       INSTRUCTION 31-218

                                                                                                                    20 JANUARY 2012

                                                                                                                                       Security

                                                                    MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC SUPERVISION
                                                                                    AND TRAFFIC CODE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 4 SFS/S5R                                                                                             Certified by: 4 SFS/CC
                                                                                                        (Major James D. Alves, Jr.)
                                                                                                                         Pages: 38


The purpose of this publication is to implement the Motor Vehicle Traffic Plan as outlined in
AFI 31-218. It assigns responsibilities and establishes procedures for motor vehicle traffic
supervision for Seymour Johnson Air Force Base (SJAFB), North Carolina. This includes, but is
not limited to granting, suspending, or revoking the privilege to operate a privately owned
vehicle (POV); administration of driver performance records; and police traffic supervision.
This supplement requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974 authorized by 50 United Staes Code 797. The term ―must,‖ ―shall,‖ and ―will‖
denote mandatory actions in this supplement. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) ACRONYM
ALREADY IN HEADINGusing the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.


       1.     Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    2
       2.     Applicability. .........................................................................................................       2
       3.     Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................        2
       4.     Individual Requirements. .......................................................................................               3
       5.     Traffic Plans and Codes. ........................................................................................              9
 2                                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


        6.      Rebutting Traffic Citations. ...................................................................................       14
        7.      Point Assessment. ..................................................................................................   14
Table 7.1.      Point Assessment for Moving Violations ..............................................................                  14
        8.      Suspensions/Revocations. ......................................................................................        14
        9.      Impounding Privately Owned Vehicles. ................................................................                  19

ATTACHMENT 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                         25

ATTACHMENT 2—SUSPENSIONS/REVOCATIONS OF SEYMOUR JOHNSON AFB
         DRIVING PRIVILEGES                                                                                                            28

ATTACHMENT 3—MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS OF NORTH CAROLINA                                                                                      29

ATTACHMENT 4—DEFINITIONS                                                                                                               38


1. Purpose. This instruction outlines the SJAFB traffic code. It is applicable to all Air Force,
Department of Defense (DoD), and civilian personnel assigned to or visiting SJAFB, North
Carolina, their dependents, and to all owners and operators of a motor vehicle on SJAFB.
2. Applicability. This instruction applies to the following:
     2.1. All AF military personnel at any time, on or off any installation.
     2.2. All civilian personnel, on any installation at any time, or in a duty status when off
     SJAFB.
     2.3. All persons in or on SJAFB or on any installation. Includes all leased, owned, or
     privatized property, including housing areas.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. The Commander, 4th Mission Support Group (MSG) is the installation commander’s
     designated representative for actions related to the suspension and revocation of driving
     privileges on SJAFB. The Deputy Commander, 4 MSG, is authorized to take these actions in
     the absence of the 4 MSG/CC. The designation is in addition to, but not in lieu of, the
     authority of the installation commander to take these actions.
     3.2. The 4th Security Forces Squadron (4 SFS) and all assigned augmentees will enforce all
     traffic regulations on SJAFB. This instruction and the traffic laws of the State of North
     Carolina form the basis for the traffic control and enforcement on this installation. Since
     SJAFB is a proprietary jurisdiction installation, the Motor Vehicle Code and laws of North
     Carolina are applicable and enforceable on this installation. They are hereby specifically
     incorporated by reference into this instruction.
     3.3. The Security Forces will direct all traffic by voice or hand signal in conformance with
     this regulation, or in the event of an emergency, they may direct as conditions require,
     notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic regulations.
     3.4. Stopping and Inspecting Personnel or Vehicles.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                            3


       3.4.1. The Security Forces may stop vehicles on military installations based on the 4 FW
       Installation Commander’s (4FW/CC) authority. The following principles govern the
       stopping of motor vehicles:
           3.4.1.1. AFI 31-209, The Air Force Resource Protection Program, local command
           instructions, and policies established by the 4 FW/CC will detail stop, inspection,
           search, and impoundment of motor vehicles at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base
           entry gates and in Air Force restricted areas.
           3.4.1.2. On-base traffic stops and inspections (other than at entry gates and restricted
           areas) of POVs is authorized when there is a reasonable basis to believe it is
           necessary to enforce a traffic regulation or when there is suspicion of criminal
           activity.
   3.5. Goldsboro Police Department (GPD) will be notified to cite and/or arrest all civilians
   detained on the installation to include military dependents.
4. Individual Requirements.
   4.1. Requirements for Driving Privileges/Driver Licensing.
       4.1.1. Driving a Government vehicle or POV on SJAFB is a privilege granted by the 4
       FW/CC. Persons who accept the privilege must:
       4.1.2. Lawfully be licensed to operate motor vehicles in appropriate classifications and
       not be under suspension or revocation in any State.
       4.1.3. Comply with laws and regulations governing motor vehicle operations on SJAFB.
       4.1.4. Comply with SJAFB registration requirements as outlined in Chapter 3 of AFI 31-
       218 Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision.
       4.1.5. Possess, while operating a motor vehicle, and produce on request by SF personnel,
       the following:
           4.1.5.1. A valid State driver license and/or U.S. Government Motor Vehicle
           Operator’s Identification Card , as applicable to the class of vehicle to be operated,
           supported by a DD Form 2 Armed Forces of the United States Geneva Convention
           Common Access Card or other appropriate identification for non-Department of
           Defense (DOD) civilians.
           4.1.5.2. A valid record of motor vehicle safety inspection and valid proof of
           insurance as required by the State of North Carolina. Vehicles registered in other
           states must comply with those state requirements and provide proof of a State Safety
           Inspection, if registered in a state that requires such inspection.
           4.1.5.3. Vehicles registered in the state of North Carolina with an expired (over 30
           days) safety
inspection will be denied entry to the installation and instructed to report to a certified state
inspection station off base, to have their vehicle inspected as required by state law.
           4.1.5.4. Regulatory permits or other pertinent documents relative to shipping and
           transportation of special cargo.
 4                                     SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


            4.1.5.5. Documents that establish identification and status of cargo or occupants,
            when appropriate.
            4.1.5.6. Proof of valid insurance. Proof of insurance consists of an insurance card, or
            other documents issued by the insurance company, that has a policy effective date and
            an expiration date.
            4.1.5.7. Operators of Government motor vehicles must have proof of authorization to
            operate the vehicle.
        4.1.6. DoD licensing procedures are contained in DoD 4500.36R, Management,
        Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles and AF policy and procedures for testing and
        licensing vehicle and equipment operators is outlined in AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.
        4.1.7. Operators of Government and private motorcycles authorized to operate on SJAFB
        shall ensure that only operators properly licensed by civil authorities to operate
        motorcycles on public highways are allowed to operate the vehicle.
        4.1.8. Drivers of vehicles authorized to operate on a flight line/airfield shall be certified
        and operate IAW AFI 13-213, Airfield Management, and the installation flight line
        driving instruction.
        4.1.9. All privately owned vehicles on SJAFB must display a valid state license plate,
        and be able to provide proof of a valid vehicle inspection, if the state in which the vehicle
        is registered requires an inspection. Operators must maintain proof of insurance and
        registration in the vehicle at all times while on the installation. The process for validating
        required North Carolina operators of motor vehicle paperwork (vehicle operator’s
        license, vehicle inspection paperwork, and vehicle registration paperwork) occurs when
        responding security forces personnel visually inspect each required vehicular document.
     4.2. Operator and Passenger Protection.
        4.2.1. Seat Belts and Occupant Restraints.
            4.2.1.1. All persons listed in paragraph 1.1. operating or riding in motor vehicles,
            shall wear installed safety belts as prescribed by the manufacturer. Individuals shall
            not ride in seating positions where safety belts have not been installed, have been
            removed or have been rendered inoperative. This does not apply to vehicles not
            designed for seat belts such as passenger seating in buses, some off-road motor
            vehicles, combat/tactical vehicles not designed with belts, vehicles exempt due to
            date manufactured, or when riding in the cargo compartment of a vehicle. Air Force
            Office of Special Investigation (AFOSI) on-duty agents and Security Forces (SF) not
            driving, but performing protective services operations are exempt and will use seat
            belts at their discretion.
            4.2.1.2. Entry onto the installation may be denied to any person refusing to properly
            fasten
their seat belt. Seat belts must be worn properly and in a manner consistent with their original
design.
            4.2.1.3. There may be no more occupants in any vehicle than there are individual seat
            belts.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                         5


           4.2.1.4. Government Vehicles. A vehicle seat belt retrofit kit will be purchased and
           installed if the vehicle manufacturer develops one for a government vehicle which
           originally did not have seat belts or where seat belts were erroneously removed.
           Exempt from this rule are combat/tactical vehicles where a DoD Component has
           decided occupant protection requirements are not appropriate in designated occupant
           positions, and vehicles that do not require seat belts such as the passenger seats in
           buses.
           4.2.1.5. To the maximum extent possible personnel shall be transported in passenger
           vehicles such as sedans, sport utility vehicles, station wagons, or buses. At no time
           will persons ride in the cargo area of a motor vehicle for the purpose of manually
           securing cargo while the vehicle is in motion. Personnel may be transported in
           vehicles without fixed seats, for short distances on SJAFB only, if each passenger
           remains seated wholly within the body of the vehicle, all installed seat belts are in
           use, and the vehicle cargo areas has no open sides. However efforts to procure a safer
           means of transportation must be exhausted before cargo are areas used to transport
           personnel.
           4.2.1.6. The operator of any vehicle is responsible for informing all passengers of
           applicable safety belt, child safety seat, and person protective requirements of this
           instruction. It is the senior occupant’s responsibility to ensure enforcement of
           occupant restraints. If the senior occupant cannot be determined, the driver shall be
           responsible for enforcement.
           4.2.1.7. SJAFB traffic safety programs will require the use of child safety seats
           consistent with N.C.G.S. 20-137.1(a).
           4.2.1.8. Seat belts shall be maintained in a serviceable condition and shall be readily
           available for driver and passenger use.
           4.2.1.9. Private motor vehicles manufactured prior to 1966 without seatbelts will not
           require seat belts installation. Occupants are required to wear seat belts if they were
           originally installed by the manufacturer in the vehicle.
       4.2.2. 0. Authorized non-use of seatbelts. Operators of a motor vehicle with passengers
       riding
inside the bed of a truck (IAW N.C.G.S. 20-135.2(b)), provided the person(s) is/are seated on the
bed or platform of the vehicle with all extremities inside the bed, and not resting against the
tailgate of the vehicle. Children under 12 are required to have a supervising adult present in the
bed of the vehicle.
       4.2.3. Requirements for Motorcycle and ATV Operation. The following requirements
       apply to all persons as listed in paragraph 1.1 while operating or riding as a passenger on
       a motorcycle, ATV or three-wheeled vehicle. When military mission tactics, techniques
       and procedures conflict with these requirements, a user developed RM analysis will be
       used to determine the most appropriate balance of mission and safety. When non-
       compliance is found necessary due to military mission, these actions will be documented
       and approved by the center, wing, installation or equivalent commander.
       Installation/MAJCOM specific PPE requirements may not be used as criterion to deny
       access to any visiting person whose equipment meets the requirements of this section. AF
6                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


    specific PPE requirements mandated by this Instruction may not be used as a criterion for
    limiting access to an AF installation for any other military component member or visitor
    who's PPE meets the requirements of DoDI 6055.04.
       4.2.3.1. Headlights (when equipped). All motorcycles, mopeds, motor scooters, three
       wheeled vehicles and ATVs will have headlights turned on at all times when
       operating on a DoD installation on or off road, except where prohibited during
       military mission or by state, local or host nation law.
       4.2.3.2. Passengers. Passengers are not authorized on government owned
       motorcycles, ATVs or three-wheeled vehicles unless they are specifically designed
       (as determined by the manufacturer) to carry a passenger and there is a valid
       operational need for the passenger to ride with the operator.
       4.2.3.3. Personal Protective Equipment. Motorcycle, ATV and Three-Wheeled
       vehicle riders will wear:
           4.2.3.3.1. Head Protection. A helmet, certified to meet current Federal Motor
           Vehicle Safety Standard No. 218, United Nations Economic Commission for
           Europe (UNECE) Standard 22.05, British Standard 6658 or Snell Standard
           M2005 shall be worn and properly fastened under the chin. For personnel riding
           motorcycles and ATVs outside the United States, helmets must meet the host
           nation standards. In those instances where the host has no standard, helmets must,
           at a minimum, meet the Federal M otor Vehicle Safety standard. Commanders
           may authorize use of combat helmets for operating tactical vehicles (e.g.,
           motorcycles and ATVs) during operations and training based on a RM evaluation.
           4.2.3.3.2. Eye Protection. Goggles, wrap around glasses, or a full-face shield
           (properly attached to helmet) designed to meet or exceed American National
           Standards Institute (ANSI) Standard Z87.1, or UNECE 22.05 or BS6658 for
           impact and shatter resistance will be worn and properly used. A windshield does
           not constitute proper eye protection. Host nation equivalent is acceptable if it
           meets or exceeds ANSI Standard Z87.1 for impact and shatter resistance.
           4.2.3.3.3. Protective Clothing. Wearing of long sleeved shirt or jacket, long
           trousers and full-fingered gloves or mittens is required. Gloves or mittens will be
           made from leather or other abrasion-resistant material. Gloves should be a sturdy,
           non-slip type to permit a firm grip on the controls. Wearing of a motorcycle jacket
           and pants constructed of abrasion resistant materials such as leather, KevlarR
           and/or CorduraR containing impact absorbing padding is strongly encouraged.
           4.2.3.3.4. Foot Protection. Sturdy, over the ankle footwear that affords protection
           for the feet and ankles (durable leather or ballistic-type cloth athletic shoes that
           cover the ankles may be worn). Sandals, low quarters, sneakers and similar
           footwear will not be used.
           4.2.3.3.5. Tactical Motorcycle and ATV Rider Protection. All on-duty riders of
           government-owned motorcycles and ATV operators during off-road operations
           will also wear knee pads, shin guards and padded full-fingered gloves. Special
           duty requirements may dictate limited compliance.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                          7


         4.2.3.4. Garment and Motorcycle Visibility. A motorcycle rider who is conspicuous
         to other vehicle operators is less likely to be involved in a vehicle to vehicle collision.
         Motorcycle riders will choose riding apparel as upper garments that incorporate high
         visibility colors (e.g. fluorescent yellow-green, fluorescent orange-red or fluorescent
         red, etc.) during the day and a retro-reflective upper garment during the night. Outer
         upper garment shall be visible and not covered. Wearing a backpack is authorized if it
         has high visibility colors/high visibility reflective properties or does not obscure the
         high visibility and reflectivity of the rider's upper garment. Additionally, riders are
         encouraged to use other methods of increasing conspicuity such as headlight and
         brake light modulators, auxiliary running lights, reflective tape to the sides of your
         motorcycle and installation of position/marker lights.
  4.3. Use of Headphones and Earphones.
     4.3.1. Use of these devices are prohibited while operating a motor vehicle. The wearing
     of any other portable headphones, earphones, or other listening devices (except for hands-
     free cellular phones) while operating a motor vehicle is prohibited. The use of these
     devices hinders or prevents recognition of emergency signals, alarms, announcements,
     approach of vehicles, human speech, and the ability to determine the direction from
     which sounds are coming.
  4.4. Pedestrian and Bicycle Safety.
     4.4.1. Individuals are not authorized to jog, run or walk on roadways with high traffic
     density and during peak traffic periods, as determined by the 4 FW CC. Road guards or
     safety spotters will be utilized to safely control traffic for formation runs or group
     running events.
     4.4.2. When jogging or running on roadways at night or in inclement weather (fog, rain,
     sleet, snow) personnel will wear retro reflective clothing or devices visible from the front
     and back.
     4.4.3. All individuals who are exposed to traffic hazards as part of their assigned duties
     shall wear a highly visible vest/jacket during the day and fluorescent or retro reflective
     vest/jacket at night. This guidance applies to troop formations only to the degree
     determined necessary to maintain formation visibility to traffic. This is directly
     applicable to traffic control, road construction, pavement marking, utility maintenance,
     road clean-up, and any other crew or individual required to work as a pedestrian on a
     roadway surface while the roadway remains open to traffic.
     4.4.4. All persons who ride a bicycle, including motor drive bicycles, on SJAFB shall
     wear a properly fastened and approved (Consure Product Safety Commisison (CSPSC),
     ANSI or Snell Memorial Foundation) bicycle helmet. Workers riding bicycles in areas
     that require the use of ANSI approved helmets (hard hats) for protection from falling and
     flying objects are allowed to use those helmets if properly fastened under the chin.
     4.4.5. Every person riding a bicycle in a street shall be subject to all rules of the road as
     established in AFI 31-218, this operating instruction, and in the North Carolina Traffic
     Codes.
     4.4.6. All bicycles shall be equipped with adequate brakes.
 8                                     SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


        4.4.7. All bicycles ridden during the hours of darkness shall be equipped with an
        operating
headlamp and rear red light or rear reflector.
        4.4.8. Bicycles will be ridden in single file along the extreme right side of the roadway or
        on established bicycle pathways.
        4.4.9. Bicycles will not be used to carry more persons than the number for which it was
designed and equipped. Parents of children who ride bicycles on roadways or bicycle pathways
are responsible for the conduct of these children. Military sponsors will ensure that dependents
are fully aware of and understand the provisions of this regulation as supplemented.
        4.4.10. People powered vehicles, excluding bicycles, will not be operated on any base
        roadways. ―People-Powered Vehicles‖ (pedal cars and scooters) are those which are
        powered by the pedal action of the operator(s).
     4.5. Non-Motorized Transportation Devices. These devices, including skateboards, kick-
     scooters, and roller-skates, are prohibited on SJAFB roadways except for incidental road
     access associated with pedestrians and will comply with all pedestrian related traffic laws.
     These devices, unless determined to be a hazard to pedestrians, will use designated
     pedestrian walkways and paths. Commanders may authorize the use of certain types of these
     devices in the traffic environment. Helmet wear (see paragraph 3.4.4.) is required on SJAFB.
     Additions to minimum required personal protective equipment (knee pads, wrist guards,
     elbow pads) will be determined by commander endorsed by ORM analysis.
        4.5.1. Roller blades and skateboards may only be used at the skate park in accordance
        with (IAW) established rules by 4th Services Squadron.
     4.6. Enforcement. Failure to use occupant protective devices (safety belts, child safety seats,
     and personal protective equipment (PPE) shall be enforced as a primary traffic violation on
     SJAFB. All levels of supervision and management shall participate actively in the
     enforcement of the program and become involved by personal example.
        4.6.1. No person will leave a child under the age of 10 in an unattended vehicle.
        4.6.2. Conveying animals in a cruel manner. If any person shall carry or cause to be
        carried in or upon any vehicle or other conveyance, any animal in a cruel or inhuman
        manner, he/she will be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor IAW N.C.G.S. 14-363.
        4.6.3. Refer to Attachment 3 Definitions for additional guidance on what constitutes
        conveying animals in a cruel manner.
        4.6.4. Security Forces and Wing Safety Personnel are authorized to conduct traffic stops
        and
safety checks for the sole purpose of checking all vehicle occupants for compliance with the seat
belt and child restraint policy. Only one person may use any single seat belt or child restraining
device at a time.
        4.6.5. The use of radar detection equipment to indicate the presence of speed measuring
devices or to transmit simulated erroneous speeds is prohibited on DoD installations. Three
traffic points will be assessed for violations. Entry controllers will inform vehicle operators
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                            9


entering the installation that operation of such devices is prohibited and advise them to remove
the device from its operational location and secure it prior to allowing the vehicle entry to the
installation. These devices are considered in use if there is power supplied to the unit.
       4.6.6. It is unlawful to operate a motor vehicle on SJAFB with a sunscreen device or
       tinted
film on its windshield or other windows unless the sunscreen device or tinted film displays an
installer’s
sticker certifying that it complies with the law and does not reduce the total light transmission of
the window to less than 35% and does not have a reflectance of light exceeding 20%.
       4.6.7. It is unlawful for any person to operate or occupy a motor vehicle on any street,
       road, or parking lot, when the sound produced by a radio, tape player, or other
       mechanical sound making device, portable or installed, is plainly audible from a distance
       of 50 feet or more. This does not apply to automobile and motorcycle horns when used as
       an emergency signaling device.
   4.7. Emergency Vehicle Operators. Emergency vehicle operators shall not operate their
   vehicles at any time at a speed that is not reasonable for weather, visibility, traffic, or
   roadway conditions.
5. Traffic Plans and Codes.
   5.1. Installation Speed Limits: IAW N.C.G.S. 20-141(e), Local authorities, in their
   respective jurisdictions, may authorize by ordinance higher speeds or lower speeds than
   those set out in subsection (b) upon all streets which are not part of the State highway
   system. Regardless of posted speed limits or the speed limits posted in the following
   paragraphs, no person will operate a motor vehicle on SJAFB at a speed in excess of what is
   reasonable and safe for surface, weather, visibility, and existing traffic conditions. Vehicle
   operators will reduce speed and proceed with extreme caution while driving through
   congested areas, or when approaching children at play.
       5.1.1. The speed limit on SJAFB is 30 mph, except where otherwise posted.
       5.1.2. The portion of Peterson Avenue from the railroad tracks to the intersection of
       Godfrey and Peterson is 35 mph.
       5.1.3. The speed limit in MFH is 20 mph in Wayne Manor and 20 mph in Berkeley
       Village.
       5.1.4. The speed limit in vehicle parking areas is 5 mph.
       5.1.5. The speed limit for tractors, tugs, forklifts, vehicles towing equipment, and special
purpose vehicles is 15 mph, unless posted as a lower speed limit.
       5.1.6. Flightline speed limits are established in SJAFBI 11-250, Airfield Operations.
       5.1.7. The speed limit within School Crossing Zones, located along Vandenberg Street,
       is 5 mph during school hours.
       5.1.8. The speed limit approaching the installation entry control points, both on and off
       base,
 10                                    SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


is 15 mph.
       5.1.9. The speed limit on Langley Ave adjacent to the Child Development Center is 20
       mph.
   5.2. Right of Way.
       5.2.1. At intersections where no traffic control devices are present, the first vehicle to
       enter the intersection has the right-of-way. When two vehicles approach at the same time,
       the vehicle going
straight through the intersection or the vehicle to the right will have the right-of-way.
       5.2.2. Pedestrians must cross streets at designated crosswalks. If a vehicle is approaching
       the crosswalk, the pedestrian must wait for the vehicle to pass or wait until the vehicle
       comes to a complete stop before entering the crosswalk. Vehicles must yield the right-of
       way to the pedestrians that have entered a crosswalk.
       5.2.3. Drivers of motor vehicles must yield the right of way to emergency vehicles
       exhibiting at least one red light or blue light signal or sounding an audible siren, horn, or
       bell. Drivers of vehicles will yield the right-of-way by immediately driving to a position
       parallel to the right-hand edge of the roadway, clear of intersections, then stop. The driver
       will remain stopped until all emergency vehicles have cleared the area. Emergency
       vehicles en route to an emergency must provide audible warnings at least 100 feet prior
       to entering an intersection. Prior to proceeding through such an intersection, the driver of
       the emergency vehicle will slow down or stop to ensure the intersection is clear and all
       other vehicles are in fact yielding to the emergency vehicle. Emergency vehicles
       responding to an incident will respond in a manner that will not pose a safety hazard to
       themselves or others on the road.
       5.2.4. Stopping for Reveille or Retreat. The driver of a vehicle shall immediately pull to
       the
right shoulder of the roadway or traffic lane and stop when Reveille or Retreat is sounded. The
vehicle
will not be placed into motion until the last note of all music played is sounded or unless directed
by an authorized traffic controller.
       5.2.5. Owners or drivers of POVs are prohibited from using any red, red/blue lights,
       siren, or bell, which may create the appearance of an emergency vehicle.
       5.2.6. The driver of the vehicle shall yield the right-of-way in parking lots at the
       appropriately marked yield lines. Yield lines are defined as those painted lines, normally
       white in color, found at intersections in parking lots, which serves notice that the operator
       must yield to vehicles proceeding on thoroughfares on which yield lines are not present.
       5.2.7. All drivers will operate vehicles within the boundaries of clearly marked traffic
       lanes and parking spaces.
       5.2.8. Traffic cones when used in direct impact to traffic flow are considered traffic
       control devices. Attempts to circumvent established avenues for travel will be cited with
       a Department of Defense (DD) Form (FM) 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket.
   5.3. Traffic Control Devices.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                     11


     5.3.1. No person shall erect, remove, deface, or destroy any traffic control device without
     obtaining permission from the Chief of Security Forces and Base Civil Engineers.
     5.3.2. Upon approval of the Traffic Management Board, the 4th Civil Engineering
     Squadron will install necessary traffic control devices.
  5.4. Transport of Privately Owned Weapons.
     5.4.1. Privately owned weapons will be transported on SJAFB under the following
     provisions:
         5.4.1.1. Transporting weapons on motorcycles, bicycles, or any other two or three
         wheeled vehicles is prohibited.
         5.4.1.2. Possession of concealed weapons are not authorized on the installation.
         EXCEPTION: DoD authorized officials and civilian police officers.
         5.4.1.3. Non-law enforcement civilians and retirees are not authorized to transport
         any type of firearm on the installation unless specifically authorized by the 4
         MSG/CC in writing. EXCEPTION: IAW paragraph 5.4.1.4.
         5.4.1.4. Authorized personnel may transport privately owned weapons on base for
         the purpose of traveling to and from authorized storage facilities, purchase or sale at
         collector display events, and authorized sporting events requiring their use. This
         includes weapons such as archery bows and arrows, pellet/BB guns, and paintball
         guns. However, these weapons will not be stored or left unattended in a privately
         owned vehicle at any time.
  5.5. Parking.
     5.5.1. Parking of motor vehicles is prohibited on all streets, roadways, and shoulders that
     have not been designated by sign or painted markings as parking areas, except on streets
     in the family housing area. Vehicles must be parked with the flow of traffic, except in the
     family housing areas. In the family housing areas, vehicles will be parked on the opposite
     side of the street from fire hydrants. Vehiclesparked on the street in housing will not be
     parked within six feet of a driveway. Parking of motor vehicles is prohibited on any grass
     or seeded area, upon any sidewalk, or unpaved surface unless authorized by signs or
     directed by the 4 SFS or higher authority. Authorized areas will be dependent on type,
     location, and space available (football, softball) or special events (concerts, holiday
     events) that are taking place and do not violate paragraphs 4.7.1.
     5.5.2. Parking slots in various places are at a premium on SJAFB. To ensure parking is
     available for working personnel, reserved slots will be assigned the following order of
     priority: handicapped parking, official vehicles used during duty hours, van and bus
     pools, carpools, and finally, single occupant cars/motorcycles with special considerations
     given to bicycles. Some reserved parking slots are automatically approved upon request:
     Wing and Vice Commander; Group and Deputy Group Commander;Squadron, Deputy
     Squadron and Flight Commander; Director of Operations; First Sergeants; , Colonel (O-
     6s); retired Colonels (O-6s); Civilian employees (GS-15) not covered above; Enlisted
     Managers in the grade of Chief Master Sergeant; and visitor slots based on actual needs.
     Emergency response vehicles (Security Forces, Fire Department, and special mission
     assets), will be provided reserved parking as needed.
 12                                    SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


       5.5.3. Parking is prohibited when:
           5.5.3.1. Within 15 feet of any intersection or fire hydrant.
           5.5.3.2. In front of any trash receptacle.
           5.5.3.3. Along any yellow curb.
           5.5.3.4. Within or blocking fire lanes.
           5.5.3.5. Blocking of driveways or sidewalks.
           5.5.3.6. Blocking any roadways to prevent the normal flow of traffic.
           5.5.3.7. Parking in excess of time specified by limited time parking signs.
       5.5.4. Utilization of Parking Lots. Parking lots are provided for the convenience of
       personnel
residing or working in a building adjacent to them. Privately owned vehicles which are
abandoned in
parking lots will be removed, at the cost of the owner, and disposed of IAW DOD 4160.21-M,
Disposal of Property, after provisions of para 4-2(b), and this instruction are complied with.
       5.5.5. IAW 4 FSS OI 34-246-13, parking of boats, over-sized vehicles, trailers, and for-
       sale vehicles are prohibited in base parking lots except: Logding residents may park in
       the Heritage Hall overflow lot located at the rear of the Heritage Hall for up to 72 hours.
       Lodging guests who need to park oversized vehicles or boats are directed to pick up a
       placard at lodging. The lodging placard identifies the occupant as a lodging guest and
       identifies the end of the 72 hour parking period.
           5.5.5.1. For parking of boats and over-sized vehicles longer than 72 hours, Outdoor
           Recreation operates the Recreation Vehicle (RV) lot.
       5.5.6. The FSS Vehicle resale lot, adjacent to the AAFES Shoppette, is the only area
       authorized for leaving a vehicle for the purpose of selling the vehicle. If it is determined
       that a vehicle is
located in a parking area other than the resale lot for the sole purpose of sale, SF will place a
citation on the vehicle. After 72 hours, a DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice, will be
placed on the vehicle. If the problem still exists after 72 hours, the vehicle will be towed and
impounded at the owner’s expense. NOTE: This requirement includes boats, jet skis, trailers,
RVs.
       5.5.7. Vehicles parked in the Services (FSS) resale lot must be approved by FSS and
       display the
sales information sheet provided by FSS. Any vehicle not complying with the above and parked
in the lot may be ticketed. A DD Form 2504, may then be placed on the vehicle and after 72
hours, the vehicle may be towed and impounded at the owner’s expense. Coordination must be
made with the 4 SFS Investigations Section prior to any vehicle being towed.
       5.5.8. Base residents may arrange through the 4 FSS, Outdoor Recreation, to use the
       Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) vehicle storage area on Collier Avenue.
       5.5.9. Parking is prohibited along the front curb of the Commissary and Base Exchange.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                            13


       5.5.10. Boats, campers, trailers will not be stored on the streets of MFH. The previously
       mentioned vehicles are allowed to park in the street or driveways of base housing for 48
       hours before and after use.
       5.5.11. Organizations requesting changes or new reserved parking spaces should submit
       a
package consisting of a letter signed by the Commander or Agency Chief responsible for the
parking lot,
detailed drawing of the new or revised parking plan, and a completed AF Form 332, Base Civil
Engineer Work Request. The package will becoordinated through 4 SFS/Police Services (S3L),
4th Civil Engineering Squadron (CES) and then to the 4 MSG/CC for approval. The final
package is forwarded to 4 CES, Traffic Engineering. They will produce the parking space plates.
To facilitate a change in reserved slots, units holding reserved slotsfalling into the above
categories may submit an abbreviated request: a letter signed by the unit commander listing the
requested slots with their locations and a completed Air Force (AF) Form 332.
       5.5.12. Only Civil Engineers-designed metal plates will be used to mark the reserved
       slots.
       5.5.13. The organization is responsible for canceling reserved slots as they become
       unnecessary and notifying 4 CES when the slot is no longer needed.
       5.5.14. The Security Forces will cite vehicles for parking in a reserved parking space
       either when
it is obvious to the patrolman the vehicle is not authorized to be in a particular space, or upon
request by
the person whose slot was improperly used. Only reserved parking slots designated IAW this
paragraph or state law will be enforced. The use of a ―boot‖ on a cited vehicle will only be
utilized by the determination of the CSF.
       5.5.15. The unit commander exercising jurisdiction over a particular facility or building
       may
appoint parking wardens for the adjacent parking area.
       5.5.16. Units who elect to utilize parking wardens will appoint them as such via
       appointment
memorandum to 4 SFS/S5R. There will be a primary and an alternate warden from each unit and
they will be in the grade of E-7 or above; if civilian, GS-8 or above.
       5.5.17. 4 SFS/S3T (Training) will ensure parking wardens are trained on the base
       parking rules and are provided instructions on how to write DD Form 1408s.
       5.5.18. Parking Wardens will enforce compliance with these parking rules and
       regulations by writing parking tickets and/or calling Security Forces to report a vehicle
       for towing. In addition to all required information, DD Form 1408s issued by parking
       wardens will have the following information; the pink copy will instruct the violator to
       contact the warden who issued the ticket (with how or where to reach the parking
       warden). White and yellow copies of completed/voided DD Form 1408s will be turned
       into 4 SFS/S5R no later than the following duty day for processing.
 14                                     SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


       5.5.19. Tickets that are incomplete or that were issued by personnel not designated as
       parking wardens
will not be processed and will be returned to the unit. Parking wardens will only issue tickets for
areas
under the control of their commander.
       5.5.20. Installation traffic codes have been assimilated under Title 18 USC 0013, North
       Carolina
General Statutes (N.C.G.S.), and are listed in Chapter 20 – Motor Vehicle Laws of North
Carolina.
6. Rebutting Traffic Citations.
   6.1. Procedures for rebutting traffic citations are followed IAW AFM 31-201, Vol 7.
   6.2. The 4 SFS will coordinate with local law enforcement agencies to identify traffic
   violations specified in this instruction and the traffic laws of North Carolina which occur off
   base by personnel affiliated with the base. This information will be forwarded to the Chief of
   Security Forces, and squadron commanders by S5R. Squadron commanders may take
   administrative action to help correct unsafe vehicle operations. Installation commander or
   their designee may suspend or revoke installation driving privileges based on unsafe driving
   behavior; including but is not limited to driving without proper insurance, reckless driving,
   driving with an invalid license, driving while under a previous suspension. Driving
   suspensions and revocations based on off-base driving violations will be processed in the
   same manner as on base driving violations.
7. Point Assessment.

Table 7.1. Point Assessment for Moving Violations
 Violation                                                                                    Points
                                                                                              assessed
 Moving Violations in base housing - One to ten miles per hour over posted speed limit.       3
 Moving Violations in base housing - Over ten but not more than fifteen miles per hour over   4
 posted speed limit.
 Moving Violations in base housing - Over fifteen but not more than twenty miles per hour     5
 over posted speed limit.
 Moving Violations in base housing - Over twenty miles per hour above posted speed limit.     6
   7.1. All other point assessments are referenced in AFI 31-218, Motor Vehicle Traffic
   Supervision table 5.2.
8. Suspensions/Revocations.
   8.1. Personnel who are cited for three non-moving violations within any six-month period
will have their driving privileges suspended for 90 days. The following are considered non-
moving violations on SJAFB: performing unauthorized automobile maintenance, improper
disposal of petroleum, oil, and lubricant products, failure to register vehicle, unauthorized
modifications or alterations, failure to maintain safety standards, illegal parking, and/or
interfering with the safe flow of traffic. This list is not all-inclusive and other non-moving
violations can be issued if the facts and circumstances warrant.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                     15


  8.2. Speeding. Any person exceeding the posted speed limit by 5- 9 mph in family housing
  will have their driving privileges suspended for a period of 7 days, by 10-14 mph will result
  in 30 days suspension, and 15 mph or more will result in 180 days suspension for the first
  offense. Subsequent infractions for speeding in family housing will result in double the
  standard suspension. Suspensions under this section will begin 3 duty days from the receipt
  of the letter issued by the Security Forces, unless an appeal is requested within the 3 duty
  days. Any request for an appeal should be submitted through the CSF to the MSG/CC in
  writing. If an appeal is submitted, the suspension will be stayed until a decision is made on
  the appeal. If an individual is cited for an offense that requires an automatic
  suspension/revocation in addition to speeding, the suspension/revocation will run
  consecutively.
     8.2.1. Reckless Driving. Any person exceeding any posted speed limit by 20 mph or
     found driving in a reckless manner as defined in Article 111 of the Uniform Code of
     Military Justice (UCMJ) or N.C.G.S., Chapter 20 will have their driving privileges
     revoked for a minimum of six months. N.C.G.S 20-140 defines ―reckless driving‖ as:
     Any person who drives any vehicle upon a highway or any public vehicular area
     carelessly and heedlessly in willful or wanton disregard of the rights or safety of others
     shall be guilty of reckless driving. Any person who drives any vehicles upon a highway
     or any public vehicular area without due caution and circumspection and at a speed or in
     a manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property shall be guilty
     of reckless driving. Any personnel who are arrested/charged with reckless driving on
     base will be suspended for a minimum of six months. Active Duty personnel who are
     arrested or charged with reckless driving on or off base will have their driving privileges
     suspended for a minimum of six months.
  8.3. Insurance. The owner of a vehicle operating or allowing their vehicle to be operated
  without insurance will result in one year suspension of base driving privileges. Active Duty
  personnel operating a vehicle or allowing their vehicle to be operated without insurance on or
  off base will result in one year suspension of base driving privileges.
  8.4. Cell Phone Use.
     8.4.1. Vehicle operators on SJAFB and operators of government owned, leased, or rented
     vehicles, on or off SJAFB, shall not use cell phones while the vehicle is in operation,
     except when using a hands-free device or hands-free operating mode. When possible,
     vehicle operators should safely pull over and place the vehicle in park before using any
     cell phone. Land Mobile Radios (LMR) are primarily listening devices and are not
     restricted. Cell phones and other devices, used only to push-to-talk (walkie-talkie, direct
     connection) mode are considered LMR if required and issued for the performance of
     official duties.
         8.4.1.1. IAW Presidential Executive Order 13513, Federal employees shall not
         engage in text messaging:
             8.4.1.1.1. When driving GOV, or when driving POV while on official
             Government business, or
             8.4.1.1.2. When using electronic equipment supplied by the Government while
             driving.
16                                  SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


     8.4.2. First offense for cell phone violation while operating a motor vehicle on base will
     result in issuance of AF Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket. A second
     noncompliance of the cell phone policy within 12 consecutive months will result in a 30-
     day base driving suspension. A third noncompliance within 12 consecutive months will
     result in a 90-day base driving suspension. The suspension will begin 3 duty days from
     the receipt of the notification letter issued by the Security Forces, unless an appeal is
     requested within the 3 duty days. Appeals shall be submitted through the CSF to the
     MSG/CC in writing. If an appeal is requested, the suspension will be stayed until there is
     a decision on the appeal.
  8.5. Seat Belts. Vehicle operators not wearing seat belts on SJAFB will have their driving
  privileges suspended. Vehicle operators are also subject to suspension if passengers in the
  vehicle are not wearing a seat belt, or children are not properly restrained in a child safety
  device. Suspensions will be for a period of 30 days for the first offense, 180 days for the
  second offense, and one year for any subsequent offenses. This policy also applies to military
  personnel while off base. The suspension will begin 3 duty days from the receipt of the
  notification letter issued by the Security Forces, unless an appeal is requested within the 3
  duty days. Appeals shall be submitted through the CSF to the MSG/CC in writing. If an
  appeal is requested, the suspension will be stayed until there is a decision on the appeal. If an
  individual is cited for an offense that requires an automatic suspension/revocation in addition
  to not wearing seat belts, the suspension/revocation will run consecutively.
     8.5.1. Suspensions for seatbelt violations, speeding in family housing, and operating a
     motor vehicle while using a cell phone without a hands free device will be stayed
     (postponed) if an appeal is requested within 3 duty days of receipt of the notification
     letter. Supsension will be stayed until an appeal is heard and ruling is determined from
     the results of the administrative appeal hearing.
  8.6. Due Process. An administrative hearing to address extenuating or mitigating factors
  that led to the suspension or revocation of base driving privileges, or to address the
  suspension or revocation’s impact on duty performance, may be requested within 10 calendar
  days of receipt of the notification of suspension/revocation.
     8.6.1. Implied Consent to Blood, Breath, or Urine Tests. Persons who drive on the
     installation shall be deemed to have given their consent to evidential tests for alcohol or
     other drug content of their blood, breath, or urine when lawfully stopped, apprehended, or
     cited for any offense allegedly committed while drivng or in physical control of a motor
     vehicle on military installations to determine the influence of intoxicants.
  8.7. The following guidance outlines what constitutes Driving While Intoxicated. It is
  unlawful for a person to operate a motor vehicle on a highway or public vehicular area
  having a Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) of .08 percent or higher. If a Security Forces
  Patrolman has probable cause to believe a driver has consumed alcohol or drugs, impairing
  his/her ability to drive, follow the procedures outlined in paragraphs 8.7.1. through 8.7.10. of
  this instruction. Military Magistrates can onlyissue search and seizure authorizations based
  on probable cause.
     8.7.1. Upon approval by the military magistrate, the offender will be ordered not to drive
     any motor vehicle on base and will report to the 4th Security Forces Squadron Reports
     and Analysis Section (4 SFS/S5R) no later than (NLT) the next duty day, accompanied
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                     17


     by their First Sergeant or Supervisor, to sign the Preliminary Suspension of On-Base
     Driving Privileges letter.
     8.7.2. When an individual does not give consent then they have violated the implied
     consent provisions. A military magistrate can order a search based on probable cause and
     subsequently suspend the individual based on the implied consent provisions.
     8.7.3. Random DWI Checkpoint inspection process can be found in SJAFBI 31-135
     Night Hawk Operations.
     8.7.4. It is unlawful for a person under the age of 21 to operate a motor vehicle after
     consuming alcohol (any BAC level). A person under the age of 21 found to be driving
     after consuming alcohol will be subject to the same penalties as a person over the age of
     21 found to be operating a motor vehicle while impaired.
     8.7.5. In accordance with North Carolina General Statute 20-138.2, Impaired Driving in
     a Commercial Vehicle, it is illegal for a person to operate a commercial motor vehicle
     while under the influence of an impairing substance; or with an alcohol concentration of
     0.04% or more.
     8.7.6. If reasonable suspicion exists to believe a civilian was driving under the influence
     of alcohol or drugs, 4 SFS will contact GPD and release the driver to GPD for processing.
     No further action will be taken by 4 SFS after the individual is released to GPD.
     8.7.7. If probable cause exists to believe a member of the armed forces was driving
     under the influence of alcohol or drugs, 4 SFS will request the driver to submit to
     Standardized Field Sobriety Tests (FST) IAW AFI 31-201, the National Highway Traffic
     Safety Administration (NHTSA) and DD Form 1920, Alcohol Influence Report. If the
     military member driver fails the FST, 4 SFS will advise the member of the implied
     consent policy and ask the member to provide a sample of his/her breath and/or blood.
     Security Forces personnel certified to operate Intoxilizer equipment will be contacted to
     have military member supply a breath sample. Personnel are certified on the Intoxilizer
     or if the on-base Intoxilizer is out of commission, contact the Golsboro Police
     Department (GDP) or North Carolina State Highway Patrol (NCSHP) for availability to
     test the military member’s breath sample. Blood will not be involuntarily extracted from
     a driver who refuses to provide a sample simply because they have given implied
     consent. Instead, 4 SFS will coordinate with 4th Fighter Wing (FW) legal office (JA) and
     seek to obtain necessary search authorization from the installation commander or the
     designated Military Magistrate. Search authorizations for a Blood Alcohol Test (BAT) or
     Breath Alcohol Concentrate (BrAC) will be requested via AF IMT 1176, Authority to
     Search and Seize. If granted, during duty hours transport subject to the 4th Medical
     Group Clinic for a blood alcohol draw. After 1630 hours, if granted, transport subject to
     Wayne Memorial Hospital for a blood alcohol draw.
     8.7.8. Any military/civilian personnel assigned to SJAFB and their dependants who are
     apprehended for DWI (any vehicular alcohol/drug related incident) off-base by any law
     enforcement agency will report to the 4 SFS/S5R, with member’s Commander, First
     Sergeant or supervisor, to acknowledge receipt of the Preliminary Suspension of On-Base
     Driving Privileges letter NLT the next duty day after returning to base. The preliminary
     suspension will become a revocation upon conviction, non-judicial punishment, or a
 18                                  SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


       military or civilian administrative action resulting in the suspension or revocation of
       civilian drivers license/privileges for intoxicated driving.
       8.7.9. Preliminary suspensions/revocations of base driving privileges based on a
       suspected alcohol-related driving offense are effective on the date issued, and are not
       stayed pending the due process appeal procedures detailed in paragraph 8.5. Requests for
       an administrative hearing must be routed by and signed through their unit CC. Unit CC
       is required to provide their recommendation on the administrative hearing. After
       obtaining proper administrative hearing coordination, requests can then be submitted in
       writing through the Chief of Security Forces (CSF). The request will provide full
       justification in detail requesting the overturning of the ruling. The letter is forwarded to
       the Mission Support Group Commander (MSG/CC) or Deputy Mission Support Group
       Commander (MSG/CD) for a personal hearing. This hearing should be held within 7
       calendar days of the MSG/CC/CD receiving the request for the administrative hearing.
       The Preliminary Suspension/ Revocation remains in effect until the MSG/CC/CD makes
       a final decision. If the MSG/CC/CD determines that the person’s driving privileges
       should be reinstated, then the suspension/revocation will be removed from the 4 SFS/S5R
       records.
       8.7.10. Unit Commanders will ensure off-installation alcohol-related traffic incidents,
       such
as DWIs, which may lead to suspension or revocation of driving privileges are reported to
4 SFS/S5R.
       8.7.11. All on-base motor vehicle accident fatalities will be examined by medical
       authorities and tested for the presence and concentration of alcohol or other drugs within
       eight hours of death.
       8.7.12. Blood or breath samples will be obtained from the surviving vehicle operators
       involved in a fatal motor vehicle accident.
   8.8. Suspended, Canceled, or Revoked Licenses. Persons whose state driver’s license has
   been suspended, canceled, revoked, or denied are required to inform their commanders or
   First Sergeant, who will in turn notify 4 SFS/S5R the next duty day.
       8.8.1. License Invalid During Suspension. Residents and non-residents whose driver’s
       license or rights/privileges to operate a motor vehicle in the state of North Carolina, or
       any other state, have been suspended or revoked may not operate a motor vehicle on
       SJAFB. This includes under a license, permit, or registration certificate issued by any
       other jurisdiction until a new license is obtained, as permitted by North Carolina state
       law.
       8.8.2. Personnel with suspended or revoked driving privileges may apply for a
       modification to their suspension or revocation at any time during the period of suspension
       or revocation. Modifications will be considered for conditions of extreme hardship and an
       absence of other workable alternatives. The request will be submitted in writing through
       the CSF who will in-turn forward the package to the 4 MSG/CC/CD. The request must
       provide full justification in detail of the reasons for modifying the suspension or
       revocation. The decision to grant restricted driving privileges will be based on mission
       needs, special circumstances resulting in hardship, and the aggravating and/or mitigating
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                           19


      circumstances surrounding the incident. Note: Modification to suspensions or revocations
      will not be granted for those persons whose driving privileges have been suspended by
      their state licensing agency.
      8.8.3. Upon the completion of a suspension or revocation, reinstatement of driving
      privileges is not automatic if the suspension or revocation was due to an alcohol related
      driving incident. Request must be in writing and endorsed by the unit commander. The
      unit commander has the option of ensuring the individual successfully completes Course
      V, Driver Improvement Program, as outlined in AFI 91-207, USAF Traffic Safety
      Program. This course is not intended to be used to rehabilitate but as an educational tool.
      This course must be administered by 4 FW/Safety (SE). If the suspension or revocation
      was due to driving while impaired, Course V is not required, but successful completion of
      Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment (ADAPT) program must be verified
      through the 4th Medical Group. If the suspension or revocation was due to not having
      proper insurance, the unit commander must ensure there is proof of compliance prior to
      approving and forwarding the individuals request for reinstatement of driving privileges
      to 4 SFS/S5R.
      8.8.4. When personnel are selected for reassignment, S5R receives a notification through
      vMPF. Once S5R receives notification from vMPF of a reassignment, a check of SFMIS
      will be conducted. If the person listed on the orders has a driving/criminal record,
      transfer the driving/criminal history through SFMIS to the gaining base. Forward all
      driving/criminal records on file to the CSF at the gaining base. S5R will also transfer
      SFMIS records to gaining bases through SFMIS when an individual is reassigned.
      Gaining units will receive records of inbound individuals through the History Gains
      Module of SFMIS.
9. Impounding Privately Owned Vehicles.
   9.1. Implied Consent to Vehicle impoundment. As a condition to accepting installation
   driving privileges, drivers must give their consent for the removal and temporary
   impoundment of their POV if their POV is: 1) Illegally parked for unreasonable periods; 2)
   interferes with traffic operations; (3 Creates a safety hazard; 4) Disabled by accident or
   incident; 5) Left unattended in, or adjacent to , a restricted, controlled, or off-limits area; and
   6) Abandoned. Drivers also agree to reimburse an authorized agency or contractor for the
   cost of towing, storage, and disposal should a need arise to remove or impound their motor
   vehicle because of a situation described above.
      9.1.1. ―Unreasonable periods‖ is defined as any motor vehicle left for more than 3 days
      unattended or unmoved without prior arrangements with, or notification to , the 4 SFS.
      Vehicles derelict and /or abandoned, for 72 hours or more, will be subject to towing and
      impoundment. Vehicles parked in locations which prevent executing increased FPCON
      measures will be towed.
      9.1.2. ―Abandoned‖ is defined as: Giving up by leaving, ceasing to operate, or
      surrendering one’s claim or right to the vehicle in question.
      9.1.3. ―Derelict Vehicles‖ is defined as those vehicles: Whose certificate of registration
      has expired and the registration and legal owner no longer reside at the address listed on
      the last certifiacate of registration with DMV; and/or whose major parts have been
20                                  SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


     removed so as to render the vehicle inoperable and incapable of passing inspection as
     required under existing standards; and/or whose manufacture’s serial plates, vehicle
     identification number, license number plates and any other means of identification have
     been removed so as to nullify efforts to locate or identify the registered and legal owner;
     and/or whose registration and legal owner of records disclaims ownership or releases his
     right thereto.
  9.2. All requests from civilian agencies for the Air Force to impound an on-base vehicle will
  be staffed through the servicing SJA and CSF.
  9.3. The impoundment of vehicles is inappropriate if other reasonable alternatives exist:
     9.3.1. When possible, attempt to locate the owner of the POV and have the vehicle
     removed.
     9.3.2. If reasonably feasible, allow another responsible person to drive or tow the POV,
     if they first have permission from the owner, operator, or person empowered to control
     the vehicle. In this case, the owner, operator, or person empowered to control the vehicle
     will be informed that law enforcement personnel are not responsible for safeguarding the
     POV.
     9.3.3. Impound and tow POVs for appropriate violations of the SJAFB installation traffic
     code or involvement in criminal activities under the direct supervision of law
     enforcement personnel.
  9.4. Impoundment and towing of vehicles may be immediately authorized, by higher
  authority, when any of the following conditions exist:
     9.4.1. The POV is illegally parked:
         9.4.1.1. On a street or bridge, or is double parked, and interferes with the orderly
         flow of traffic.
         9.4.1.2. On a sidewalk, within an intersection, on a crosswalk, on a railroad track, in
         a fire lane, or is blocking a driveway, so that the vehicle interferes with operations or
         creates a safety hazard to other roadway users or the general public (vehicle parked
         within 15 feet of a fire hydrant or blocking a properly marked driveway of a fire
         station or aircraft-alert crew facility).
         9.4.1.3. When blocking an emergency exit door of any public place (installation
         theater, club, dining facility, medical clinic, and or other facilities).
         9.4.1.4. In a ―tow-away‖ zone that is so marked with proper signs.
         9.4.1.5. Blocking a fire hydrant and fire lanes.
         9.4.1.6. Posing a safety hazard.
     9.4.2. The POV interferes with:
         9.4.2.1. Street cleaning or snow removal operations and attempts to contact the
         owner have been unsuccessful.
         9.4.2.2. Emergency operations during a natural disaster or fire or must be removed
         from the disaster area during cleanup operations.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                        21


         9.4.2.3. The safe flow of traffic.
     9.4.3. The POV has been used in a crime or contains evidence of criminal activity.
     9.4.4. The owner or person in charge has been apprehended and is unable or unwilling to
     arrange for custody or removal.
     9.4.5. The POV is mechanically defective and is a menace to others using the public
     roadways.
     9.4.6. The POV is disabled by a traffic incident and the operator is either unavailable or
     physically incapable of having the vehicle towed to a place of safety for storage or
     safekeeping.
     9.4.7. Law enforcement personnel reasonably believe the vehicle is abandoned.
     9.4.8. Left unattended in, or adjacent to, a restricted, controlled, or off-limits area.
  9.5. Procedures for Impoundment.
     9.5.1. Unattended POVs.
         9.5.1.1. After placing a DD Form 1408 on a suspected abandoned vehicle the owner
         of the vehicle will have 24 hours to contact the BDOC for further instructions.
            9.5.1.1.1. If no contact from the owner is received within 72 hours of placing DD
            Form 1408, on duty patrol will complete DD Form 2504 and place it in a plastic
            protective covering. Patrol will conspicouously place the notice on the vehicle
            over the driver’s side windshield. Only the 4 SFS Investigations, 4 SFS
            Operations Superintendent, or higher authority may contact the Goldsboro City
            Code Enforcement Office to have a vehicle towed. The procedures for towing,
            storing and protecting impounded vehicles will be IAW Goldsboro Code
            Enforcements.
            9.5.1.1.2. The patrol will make reasonable attempts to identify the owner of the
            vehicle by use of Pass and Registration and the DCI System. If the owner of the
            vehicle cannot be contacted or identified, the DD Form 2504 will be referred to
            the Security Forces Office of Investigations (SFOI) section. The owner will have
            three (3) days from the date the vehicle was issued a DD Form 2504 to move the
            vehicle to an authorized location or contact SFOI to make arrangements to
            remove the vehicle.
         9.5.1.2. Once notified, SFOI will attempt to contact the vehicle owner and document
         the attempts by attaching Case Notes to the DD Form 2504. At a minimum, SFOI
         will conduct a DCI/NCIC check of the VIN and license plate of the vehicle to obtain
         ownership information.
         9.5.1.3. SFOI will contact the Goldsboro Code Enforcement Office 739-7431 and
         arrange for removal of the vehicle from the installation IAW Goldsboro City Code for
         the following reasons:
            9.5.1.3.1. If all attempts to contact the vehicle owner have failed.
            9.5.1.3.2. The owner does not remove the vehicle.
22                                 SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


            9.5.1.3.3. The owner does not contact SFOI within 3 days.
        9.5.1.4. If a contracted wrecker service is used, a DD Form 2505 (Abandoned
        Vehicle Removal Authorization) will be completed and issued to the contractor by
        responding 4 SFS personnel.
        9.5.1.5. An inventory listing personal property will be done to protect the owner, law
        enforcement personnel, the contractor, and the commander.
        9.5.1.6. The contents of a closed container such as a suitcase inside the vehicle need
        not be inventoried. Such articles should be opened only if necessary to identify the
        owner of the vehicle or if the container might contain explosives or otherwise present
        a danger to the public. Merely listing the container and sealing it with security tape
        will suffice.
        9.5.1.7. After the vehicle has been removed, the 4 SFS law enforcement personnel
        will complete DD Form 2506 (Vehicle Impoundment Report) as a record of the
        actions taken.
        9.5.1.8. The DD Form 2507, Notice of Vehicle Impoundment (see DODD 5525.4),
        will be forwarded by certified mail to the address of the last known owner of the
        vehicle to advise the owner of the impoundment action and request information
        concerning the owner’s intentions pertaining to the disposition of the vehicle.
        9.5.1.9. A detailed blotter entry will be accomplished in all instances where a vehicle
        is towed off the installation subject to this instruction.
        9.5.1.10. Once the vehicle is towed, any claim made as to the
        ownership/responsibility of the vehicle will be conducted through the Goldsboro
        Police Department. Owners of vehicles which have been towed are subject to fees
        and fines imposed by the City of Goldsboro.
  9.6. Vehicle Abandonment.
     9.6.1. Vehicles that are not properly registered or appear to be abandoned will be cited
     with a DD Form 1408 and issued a DD Form 2504.
     9.6.2. Conspicuously place DD Form 2504 (see DODD 5525.4), on POVs considered
     abandoned or improperly unattended.
     9.6.3. If the problem cited is not corrected within 72 hours of the citation, the vehicle
     will be towed and impounded at the owner’s expense. 4 SFS will attempt to make contact
     with either the individual or the First Sergeant of the owner of the vehicle before towing
     or impoundment. Military members will be given a lawful order to remove the vehicle
     from the installation. Failure to do so is a violation of Article 92 of the UCMJ, and could
     result in administrative or disciplinary action.
  9.7. Towing and Storage.
     9.7.1. Towing and storage will be in accordance with AFI 31-218 and this instruction.
        9.7.1.1. Towing. A tow bar or wrecker will be used when towing another vehicle on
        base. Towing by rope, nylon strap or chains is prohibited.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                    23


     9.7.2. Storage. Temporary impoundment and towing of POVs for violations of SJAFB
     Traffic Code or involvement in criminal activities will be accomplished under the direct
     supervision of law enforcement personnel.
         9.7.2.1. SJAFB does not possess the capabilities to store impounded vehicles.
         Owners of impounded vehicles are directed to contact GPD Records Section at 580-
         4239. Hours of operation for GPD Records Section is 0700 to 2300 hours.
     9.7.3. Stolen POVs or Vehicles Involved in Criminal Activity.
         9.7.3.1. Keep vehicles in Air Force custody when holding them for evidentiary
         purposes.
         9.7.3.2. Release recovered stolen POVs to the registered owner, unless held for
         evidentiary purposes, or to the law enforcement agency reporting the vehicle stolen,
         as appropriate.
  9.8. Vehicle Repossession.
     9.8.1. In the event that a vehicle stored on SJAFB is scheduled for repossession due to
     failure of making financial obligations, a Repossession Order is required to legally
     repossess a vehicle.
     9.8.2. SJAFB is a propiertary jurisidiction meaning that repossession may occur.
     9.8.3. Proof of repossession action, through court order paperwork, must outline the
     address of the vehicle(s) and the name of the person the vehicle(s) are being repossessed
     from.
     9.8.4. SF or individual’s chain of command are the only two agencies that can sign on
     personnel to repossess listed vehicle(s).
     9.8.5. Coordination through 4 SFS is required to escort listed repossession of listed
     vehicle(s).
         9.8.5.1. Escorting 4 SFS Installation Patrol is required to obtain all pertinent
         information to be listed in detailed blotter entry.
         9.8.5.2. 4 SFS presence is required to quell/mitigate potential incident from
         escalating.
     9.8.6. Repossessed vehicle is stored off of SJAFB.
         9.8.6.1. Subjects who have vehicle(s) repossessed from SJAFB should make contact
         with repossession/lender to determine schedule of payments to be made or face
         possible auction of repossessed vehicle(s).
  9.9. Search Incident to Impoundment Based on Criminal Activity.
     9.9.1. Search of a POV in conjunction with impoundment based on criminal activity will
     likely occur in one of the following general situations:
     9.9.2. The owner or operator is not present. This situation could arise during traffic and
     crime-related impoundments and abandoned vehicle seizures. Do not search the vehicle
     unless evidence or contraband is in plain view or is readily discernible on the outside as
24                                 SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


     evidence of criminal activity. When in doubt, obtain proper search authority before
     searching.
     9.9.3. The owner or operator is present. This situation can occur during a traffic or
     criminal incident or if the operator is apprehended for a crime or serious traffic violation
     and sufficient probable cause exists to seize the vehicle. In some cases, the operator is
     present but is unwilling, incapacitated, or otherwise unable to make adequate
     arrangements to safeguard the vehicle. As a general rule, you may search vehicles
     without search authority when there is a reasonable danger to police or public, there is a
     risk of loss of destruction of evidence, or the search is reasonable under rules governing
     search incident to apprehension.
  9.10. Disposition of Vehicles After Impoundment.
     9.10.1. If a POV is impounded for evidentiary purposes, the vehicle can be held for as
     long as the evidentiary or law enforcement purposes exists. The vehicle must then be
     returned to the owner without delay unless directed otherwise by competent authority.
     9.10.2. If the vehicle is unclaimed after 120 days from the date notification was mailed
     to the last known owner or the owner released the vehicle by properly completing DD
     Form 2505, the vehicle will be disposed of by one of the following procedures:
         9.10.2.1. Release to the lien holder, if known.
         9.10.2.2. Process as abandoned property in accordance with DOD 4160.21-M.
            9.10.2.2.1. Property may not be disposed of until diligent effort has been made to
            find the owner; or the heirs, next of kin, or legal representative of the owner.
            9.10.2.2.2. The diligent effort to find one of those mentioned in paragraph
            9.6.2.2.1. , above, shall begin no later than 7 days after the date on which the
            property comes into custody or control of the law enforcement agency.
            9.10.2.2.3. The period for which this effort is continued may not exceed 45 days.
            9.10.2.2.4. If the owner are determined, but not found, the property may not be
            disposed of until the expiration of 45 days after the date when notice, giving the
            time and place of the intended sale or other disposition, has been sent by certified
            or registered mail to that person at his or her last known address.
            9.10.2.2.5. When diligent effort to determine those mentioned above is
            unsuccessful, the property may be disposed of without delay, except that if it has a
            fair market value of more than $500, the law enforcement official may not dispose
            of the property until 45 days after the date it is received at the storage point.




                                           PATRICK J. DOHERTY, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                 25


                                     ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-213, Airfield Driving, 1 Jun 2011
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 Nov 2008
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense, 8 Oct 2009
AFI 31-201, Security Police Standards and Procedures, 30 Mar 2009
AFI 31-218, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 22 May 2006
AFI 91-207, USAF Traffic Safety Program, 27 Oct 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 Mar 2008
DOD 4500.36R, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles, 3 Aug 2004
DODD 5525.4, Enforcement of State Traffic Laws on DoD Installations, 2 Nov 1981
DOD 4160.21-M, Disposal of Property, 18 Aug 1997
Motor Vehicle Laws of North Carolina/North Carolina General Statutes, Motor Vehicle Act of
1937
SJAFB Instruction 11-250, Airfield Operations, 7 May 2007
Prescribed Forms
DD Form 2, Armed Forces of the United States Geneva Convention Identification Card
DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket
DD Form 1920, Alcohol Influence Report
DD Form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice
DD Form 2505, Abandoned Vehicle Removal Authorization
DD Form 2507, Notice of Vehicle Impoundment
AF Form 75, Visitor Pass
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF IMT 1176, Authority to Search and Seize
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations—Definition
4 FW/CC — 4th Fighter Wing Installation Commander
AAFES — Army and Air Force Exchange Service
ADAPT — Alcohol and Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment Program
AF — Air Force
 26                            SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


AFRIMS — Air Force Records Information Management System
AFOSI — Air Force Office of Special Investigation
ANSI — American National Standards Institute
ATV — All-Terrain Vehicles
BAC — Blood Alcohol Content
BAT — Blood Alcohol Test
BDOC — Base Defense Operations Center
BrAC — Breath Alcohol Concentrate
CC — Commander
CES — 4th Civil Engineering Squadron
CSF — Chief, Security Forces
CSPSC — Consure Product Safety Commission
DCI — Division of Criminal Information
DD — Department of Defense
DMV — Department of Motor Vehicles
DoD — Department of Defense
DOT — Department of Transportation
DWI — Driving While Impaired
FM — Form
FPCON — Force Protection Condition
FST — Standardized Field Sobriety Tests
FSS — Force Support Squadron
FW — 4th Fighter Wing
GOV — Government vehicle
GPD — Goldsboro Police Department
IAW — in accordance with
ID — identification card
IECP — Installation Entry Control Point
JA — Judge Advocate
LMR — Land Mobile Radios
MFH — Military Family Housing
mph — miles per hour mph
MSG — Mission Support Group
MSG/CC — Mission Support Group Commander
MSG/CD — Deputy Mission Support Group Commander
MWR — Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
NCGS — North Carolina General Statutes
NCOIC — Non-Commissioned Officer In Charge
NCSHP — North Carolina State Highway Patrol
NHTSA — National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
NLT — no later than
OPR — Office of Primary Responsibility
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                          27


PCS — Permanent Change of Station
POV — privately owned vehicle
PPE — personal protective equipment
RDS — Records Disposition Schedule
RV — recreation vehicles
S3L — 4 SFS/Police Services
S5R — 4th Security Forces Squadron Reports and Analysis Section
SE — Safety
SF — Security Forces
SFI — Security Forces Investigations
SFMIS — Security Forces Management Information System
SFS — Security Forces Squadron
SJA — Staff Judge Advocate
SJAFB — Seymour Johnson Air Force Base
UCMJ — Uniform Code of Military Justice
VC — Visitor Center
VCNCO — Vehicle Control Non-Commissioned Officer
 28                                 SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


                                     ATTACHMENT 2
      SUSPENSIONS/REVOCATIONS OF SEYMOUR JOHNSON AFB DRIVING
                            PRIVILEGES

Table A2.1. Suspensions
Offense                                                                        Suspension
Exceeding speed limit by 5-9 mph in base housing                               7 days
Exceeding speed limit by 10-14 mph in base housing                             30 days
Exceeding speed limit by 15 mph or more in base housing                        180 days
Offense                                                                        Suspension
First noncompliance with restraint or safety device requirements within 12     30 days
consecutive months
Second noncompliance with restraint or safety device requirements within       180 days
12 consecutive months
Third noncompliance with restraint or safety device requirements within 12     1 year
consecutive months

Offense                                                                        Suspension
Second noncompliance with policy not to operate a motor vehicle while          30 days
using a cell phone without a hands free device within 12 consecutive
months

Third noncompliance with policy not to operate a motor vehicle while using 90 days
a cell phone without a hands free device within 12 consecutive months

Offense                                                                        Suspension
Accumulation of 12 traffic points within 12 consecutive months                 180 days

Accumulation of 18 traffic points within 18 consecutive months                 1 year

Offense                                                                        Suspension
No financial responsibility (owner of a vehicle may not operate or allow his   1 year
vehicle to be operated without insurance)
Offense                                                                        Suspension
Any personnel who are arrested/charged with Reckless Driving on base will      6 months
be suspended. Active Duty personnel who are arrested/charged with
Reckless Driving on or off base will be suspended.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                     29


                                       ATTACHMENT 3
                     MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS OF NORTH CAROLINA

                 (Assimilated under Title 18 USC 0013 or adopted by 32 CFR 210)
                           (Use for both military and civilian offenders)

                         A. Emissions, Insurance, License, Registration, Title
                                            1. Inspection
General Statute      Offense                                                       SJAFB Points
                                                                                   Assessed
20-183.8(a)(1)       Failure to display valid inspection sticker (if registered in N/A
                     NC – new purchases have 30 days) (C)
20-183.8(c)          Forging an inspection sticker                                 N/A
                                            2. Insurance

General Statute       Offense                                                              SJAFBPoints
                                                                                           Assessed
20-313.1(a)           Making false certification or giving false information concerning 1 yr Suspension
                      financial responsibility
20-313(a)             No financial responsibility (owner of vehicle may not operate or 1 yr Suspension
                      allow his vehicle to be operated without insurance - applies only
                      to vehicles registered or required to be registered in NC)
                                             3. License
General Statute     Offense                                                         SJAFB Points
                                                                                    Assessed
20-32               Allowing an unlicensed minor (under 18) to operate a            6 mo
                    motor vehicle                                                   Suspension
20-32               Allowing an unlicensed minor (under 18) to operate a            6 mo
                    motor vehicle                                                   Suspension
20-34               Allowing your vehicle to be driven by a person who has no 6 mo
                    legal right to do so (unlicensed person)                        Suspension
General Statute     Offense                                                         SJAFB Points
                                                                                    Assessed
20-30(6)            Copying or otherwise reproducing a license or permit            6 mo
                                                                                    Suspension
20-30(2)            Counterfeiting, selling or lending a license or permit          6 mo
                                                                                    Suspension
20-30(1)            Displaying or possessing a license or learner’s permit          6 mo
                    knowing it to be fictitious, canceled, revoked, suspended,      Suspension
                    or altered
20-7(e)             Driving against restrictions or limitations (if violation of    6 mo
                    limited driving privileges, charge under 20-28(a))              Suspension
20-28(d)            Driving while license disqualified (commercial motor            2 yr Suspension
                    vehicle license)
20-28(a)            Driving while license suspended, revoked, or in violation       2 yr Suspension
 30                                 SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


                  of limited driving privilege
20-7(f)           Expired driver’s license                                       1 yr Suspension
20-30(3)          Misrepresenting another person’s license or permit as own      6 mo
                                                                                 Suspension
20-37.12          No commercial driver’s license or improper license for         N/A
                  class of vehicle
20-7a             No driver’s license, improper license for the class of         1 yr Suspension
                  vehicle, or failure to carry license while driving (no
                  commercial license charged under 20-37.12)
20-7(a1)          No Motorcycle License or Motorcycle Endorsement                N/A
20-10.1           Operation of moped by person under 16                          N/A
20-29             Refusal by operator to produce license and provide name        N/A
                  & address to police officer or other person; providing false
                  information
20-30(7)          Selling reproduction of a license                              6 mo
                                                                                 Suspension

20-7(L)           Violation of provisions of learner’s permit                    N/A
                                    4. Registration / Title
General Statute   Offense                                                        SJAFB Points
                                                                                 Assessed
20-71(a)          Altering or forging a certificate of title or registration     N/A
20-57(c)          Failure to carry registration card                             N/A
20-63(e)          Failing to clean registration plate upon request of an officer N/A
20-111(3)         Giving, lending, or borrowing a license plate                  N/A
20-71(a)          Altering or forging a certificate of title or registration     N/A
20-57(c)          Failure to carry registration card                             N/A
20-71(a)          Altering or forging a certificate of title or registration     N/A
20-57(c)          Failure to carry registration card                             N/A
20-63(e)          Failing to clean registration plate upon request of an officer N/A
20-111(3)         Giving, lending, or borrowing a license plate                  N/A
20-111(2)         Knowingly displaying or possessing a registration card,        N/A
                  certificate of title, or plate which is fictitious, canceled,
                  revoked, suspended, or altered or willfully displaying an
                  expired plate knowing it to be expired
20-111(1)         Operating unregistered vehicle or not displaying a current N/A
                  registration plate
20-79(e)(1)       Operating a vehicle with improper dealer plates                N/A
20-71(b)          Possession of blank NC certificate of title                    N/A
20-63(g)          Willfully altering, disguising, covering or concealing         N/A
                  numbers on a registration plate
20-63(f)          Willfully operating a vehicle with altered, forged, or         N/A
                  repainted plates

          B. Fraud / False Reports / Failure to Obey / Attempted Vehicle Theft
General Statute Offense                                                   SJAFB Points
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                     31


                                                                                 Assessed
20-109            Changing vehicle ID numbers (charged as federal offense        N/A
                  under 18 USC 511)
20-107(b)         Climbing into vehicle with intent to steal or damage it or     N/A
                  commit any crime tampering with brakes or starting
                  mechanisms
20-71.4(a)        Failure to disclose 25% damage of vehicle upon transfer of     N/A
                  vehicle to another
20-114.1(a)       Failure to obey a law enforcement or traffic control officer   N/A
20-108            Knowingly buying, receiving, selling or possessing any         N/A
                  motor vehicle or part thereof which has ID number or mark
                  thereon removed, covered, or defaced
20-102.1          Making false report of theft or conversion of motor vehicle    N/A
20-279.31         Providing false information required in a report of a          N/A
                  reportable accident, knowing or having reason to believe
                  the information is false
20-106            Receiving or transferring stolen vehicles                      N/A
20-107(a)         Willfully tampering with or removing parts from vehicle        N/A
                  without owner’s consent
                                C. General Moving Violations
General Statute   Offense                                                        SJAFB Points
                                                                                 Assessed
20-166(b)         Accident—Failure of driver involved in accident to render      N/A
                  any assistance to injured persons and furnish his name,
                  address, driver’s license number and license plate number
                  to the other driver(s)
20-166.1(a)       Accident—Failure to report an accident to a law                N/A
                  enforcement agency ASAP
20-166(c1)        Accident—Failure to report damage to an unattended             N/A
                  motor vehicle to the police or leave a note on such vehicle
20-166(a)         Accident—Failure to stop when driver knows or                  1 yr Suspension
                  reasonably should have known that he was involved in
                  accident or collision and it resulted in injury or death
20-166(c)         Accident—Fleeing the scene of a traffic accident which         1 yr Suspension
                  has resulted in property damage only, or in the injury or
                  death of another person and the driver did not have reason
                  to believe that those injuries resulted
20-141.4(a)(2)    Accident—Misdemeanor death by motor vehicle                    1 yr Suspension
                  (unintentional death caused by any violation of motor
                  vehicle law)
20-160(b)         Driving on sidewalk or sidewalk area                           6 points
20-157(d)         Emergency vehicle—Driving over a fire hose or blocking         4 points
                  fire fighting apparatus from its source of water supply
20-157(a)         Emergency vehicle—Failure to pull to the right and stop        4 points
                  upon approach of an emergency vehicle operating its
                  emergency lights and/or siren (not applicable on divided,
 32                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


                  four-lane highways)

20-157(c)         Emergency vehicle—Following fire vehicle closer than          4 points
                  400 feet or parking within 400 feet of such vehicle when
                  stopped in response to fire alarm

20-181            Failure to dim headlights                                     N/A
20-142.1(a)       Failure to obey railroad crossing signal                      4 points
20-152(a)         Following too closely                                         6 points
20-141(h)         Impeding the normal and reasonable flow of traffic (not       3 points
                  including farm tractors or other heavy equipment)
General Statute   Offense                                                       SJAFB Points
                                                                                Assessed
20-165.1          Lanes—Driving against one-way traffic                         3 points
20-146(d)(1)      Lanes—Failure to maintain lane when roadway is divided        3 points
                  into 2 clearly marked lanes
20-146(a)         Lanes—Failure to remain on right side of roadway unless       3 points
                  making a legal movement
20-146(b)         Lanes—Failure to remain right when traveling below the        3 points
                  legal speed limit
20-147            Lanes—Failure to remain right while crossing intersection     3 points
                  or railroad crossing
20-146.1(b)       Lanes—Motorcycles will not travel more than 2 abreast in      3 points
                  a single lane
20-140.3(2)       Making a left, semicircular, or U-turn when there is no       3 points
                  opening provided for that purpose in the dividing curb,
                  separation, or line on controlled-access highways
20-140.4(a)(1)    Operating a motorcycle or moped with more persons that it     3 points
                  is designated to carry

20-140.4(a)(2)    Operating a motorcycle or moped without an approved           3 points
                  safety helmet

20-146.1(b)       Operating more than two motorcycles abreast in a single       3 points
                  lane
20-173(b)         Passing a vehicle stopped at a marked crosswalk to allow a    6 points
                  pedestrian to cross
20-150(e)         Passing in no-passing zone (must be marked)                   4 points
20-150(c)         Passing in railroad grade or intersection                     4 points
20-150(b)         Passing on crest of a grade or on curve where visibility is   4 points
                  less than 500 feet
20-149(a)         Passing vehicle must be 2 feet to the left and safely clear   4 points
                  before returning to the right
20-150(a)         Passing when left side is not clearly visible or free of      4 points
                  oncoming traffic for sufficient distance to pass safely
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                      33




General Statute   Offense                                                         SJAFB Points
                                                                                  Assessed
20-149(b)         Passing—Overtaken vehicle must give right of way and
                  not speed up                                                    4 points
                     -If no injuries or damage                                    4 points
                     -If bodily injury or property damage                         6 points
                     -If serious bodily injury                                    6 points
20-148            Passing—Vehicles will pass to the right of each other           4 points
                  when traveling in opposite directions
20-140(a)         Reckless driving by manner—driving a vehicle carelessly         6 points/6 mo
                  and heedlessly in willful or wanton disregard of the rights     Suspension
                  or safety of others                                             (minimum)
20-217(a)         School bus—Passing a stopped school bus displaying              4 points
                  mechanical stop signals (bus must be marked – does not
                  apply to divided highways)
20-142.3          Stop—Certain vehicles required to stop at railroad              3 points
                  crossing (school bus, HAZMAT vehicle)
20-158(b)(1)      Stop—Failure to come to a complete stop at a posted stop        4 points
                  sign at intersection
20-158(c)(1)      Stop—Failure to stop at stop sign (other than at                4 points
                  intersections, parking lot or side street)
20-158(b)(3)      Stop—Failure to stop and yield at flashing red light at         4 points
                  intersection
20-158(c)(3)      Stop—Failure to stop at flashing red light (other than at       4 points
                  intersection)
20-158(c)(2)      Stop—Failure to stop at red light (other than at                4 points
                  intersection, at crosswalk)
20-158(b)(2)      Stop—Failure to stop for red light or failure to yield to on-   4 points
                  coming traffic when turning right on red
20-142.5          Obstruction of crosswalk or railroad crossing                   4 points
20-158(b)(5)      Stopping over stop line, crosswalk, or road intersection        4 points
20-153(c)         Turning—Failure to obey traffic control devices that            4 points
                  indicate how to turn (to include law enforcement official)
20-153(b)         Turning—Improper left turn at intersection                      3 points
20-153(a)         Turning—Improper right turn at intersection                     3 points
General Statute   Offense                                                         SJAFB Points
                                                                                  Assessed
20-154(a)         Unsafe movement from parked position, including unsafe          3 points
                  backing
20-173(a)         Yield—Failure to yield right of way to pedestrian in            4 points
                  crosswalk (without traffic control devices) or near any
                  road intersection
20-158.1          Yield—Failure to yield right of way upon entering marked        4 points
 34                                 SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


                  highway
20-155(b)         Yield—Failure to yield to oncoming traffic when turning        4 points
                  left
20-155(a)         Yield—Failure to yield to the vehicle to right when more       4 points
                  than one vehicle approaches intersection at same time
20-156(a)         Yield—Failure to yield to traffic on roadway when              4 points
                  entering from alley, driveway
20-155(d)         Yield—Vehicle entering traffic circle must yield to traffic    4 points
                  already in the traffic circle
20-173(c)         Yield—Vehicles entering or exiting an alley, building          4 points
                  entrance, private road, or driveway shall yield the right of
                  way to any pedestrian crossing such area
                          D. Impaired Driving / Alcohol Offenses
General Statute   Offense                                                        SJAFB Points
                                                                                 Assessed
20-141.4(a1)      Felony death by motor vehicle                                  6 points
                  (unintentional death caused by impaired driver)                1 yr Suspension
20-138.5          Habitual impaired driving (3 previous DWIs within the          2 yr Suspension
                  past 7 years)
20-138.1          Impaired driving                                               6 points/1 yr
                                                                                 Suspension
20-138.2          Impaired driving in commercial vehicle (.04 or higher)         6 points/1 yr
                  (also charge 20-138.1 if over .08 - it is not LIO)             Suspension
20-179            Impaired driving—Sentencing                                    6 points/1 yr
                                                                                 Suspension
20-12.1           Impaired instruction (.08 BAC or higher while allowing         6 points/1 yr
                  person with learner’s permit to drive)                         Suspension
20-138.7          Open container of alcohol—Driver:                              6 points
                  Two elements: 1) open container of alcohol in passenger
                  area, and 2) driver is consuming alcohol or alcohol
                  remains in his body.
                  (Note: mere odor of alcohol is insufficient, unless driver
                  refuses breath test.)
NCGS 18B-         Open container of alcohol—Passenger: Passenger in              6 points
401(a)            possession of open container of liquor or fortified wine.
20-138.3          Underage drinking and driving—driving by person less           6 points/1 yr
                  than 21 years old after consuming alcohol or drugs (any        Suspension
                  BAC level) (also charge 20-138.1 if over .08)
                        E. Inoperable Equipment / Loads / Towing
General Statute   Offense                                                        SJAFB Points
                                                                                 Assessed
20-130.1(c)       Blue lights—unlawful use                                       3 points
20-124(c)         Brakes—unsafe                                                  3 points
20-123(c)         Chains—no safety chains for ball hitch trailer                 3 points
20-135.2B(a)      Child under 12 in bed of pickup truck without an adult         3 points
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                     35


20-129(a)(1)      Failing to have lights on from sunset to sunrise                3 points
20-129(a)(4)      Failing to have lights on when windshield wipers are in use     3 points
                  due to rain, fog, etc.
20-131            Headlamps—improperly adjusted                                   3 points
20-129(b)         Headlamps—inoperable                                            3 points
20-129(c)         Headlamps—inoperable headlamp on motorcycle or unlit            3 points
                  during operation
20-130(b)         Headlamps—no more than 2 auxiliary driving lamps; must          3 points
                  meet requirements for head lamps
20-129(a)(2)      Headlamps—operation of vehicle without headlamps or             3 points
                  rear lamps when visibility is less than 400 feet
20-125(a)         Horn or warning device—using horn for other than a              3 points
                  reasonable warning or making any unnecessary loud or
                  harsh sound by horn or other warning device; inoperable
20-116(c)         Load—no vehicle, with or without load, may exceed 13            3 points
                  feet, 6 inches
20-140.2          Load—overloading or overcrowding a vehicle                      3 points
20-116(b)         Load—passenger vehicle load may not extend past left            3 points
                  fender nor extend more than 6 inches past the right fender
20-116(f)         Load—vehicle load may not extend more than 3 feet               3 points
                  beyond the front bumper of the vehicle
20-116(g)         Load—vehicle load must be secured so that the contents          3 points
                  will not drop, shift, leak, or otherwise escape from the load
                  compartment. If vehicle is hauling sand, gravel, etc., the
                  level must be at least 6 inches below the top of the load
                  area or must be covered


General Statute   Offense                                                         SJAFB Points
                                                                                  Assessed
20-117            Load—vehicle with load extending more than 4 feet must          3 points
                  have red flag (12‖ square, min) or red light (visible at 200
                  feet) attached to the end of the load
20-126(b)         Mirrors—no driver’s side mirror                                 3 points
20-126(c)         Mirrors—no motorcycle rear view mirror                          3 points
20-126(a)         Mirrors—no rear view mirror                                     3 points
20-140.4(a)(1)    Motorcycles—exceeding the number of persons on a                6 points
                  motorcycle that it was designed to carry
20-140.4(a)(2)    Motorcycles--operating or riding on motorcycle without a        6 points
                  helmet
20-128(a)         Muffler or exhaust—driving vehicle when muffler not in          2 points
                  sufficiently good working order to prevent excessive noise
                  or smoke inoperable
20-136.1          Operable TV in front seat                                       3 points
20-137.2          Operating a vehicle resembling a law enforcement vehicle        N/A
 36                                 SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


20-129(d)         Rear lamps—inoperable rear lamp, license plate light, or         3 points
                  broken lens (C)
20-130.3          Rear lamps—unlawful display of white lights on rear of           2 points
                  vehicle (not including backup lights) while vehicle is
                  moving forward
20-130.1(a)       Red lights—unlawful display                                      2 points
20-135.2A(a)      Seatbelts—driver or passenger not wearing seat belt              4 points
20-137.1(a)       Seatbelts--children under 4 years of age must be secured in      4 points
                  car safety seat , children between 4 and 12 must be in seat
                  belt
20-135.3          Seatbelts--less than 2 sets of seatbelts in back seat            4 points
                  (vehicles made after Jul 1966)
20-135.2(a)       Seatbelts—less than 2 sets of seatbelts in front seat            4 points
                  (vehicles made after Jan 64)
20-128.1(a)       Smoke emissions—emitting visible smoke emissions for             N/A
                  more than 5 seconds from gas powered vehicle
20-136            Smoke screen—creating a smoke screen                             N/A
20-123.2          Speedometer—inoperable                                           2 points
20-130(a)         Spot lamps—vehicle may have no more than 2, motorcycle           2 points
                  no more than 1, must be aimed so beam does not cross
                  center of road or light area more than 100 feet ahead
General Statute   Offense                                                          SJAFB Points
                                                                                   Assessed
20-123.1          Steering mechanism—unsafe                                        2 points
20-129(g)         Stop lamps—inoperable (vehicles made after Dec 1955)             2 points
20-122.1          Tires—unsafe                                                     2 points
20-127(b)         Window tinting improper (exceeds 35% visibility)                 N/A
20-127(a)         Windshield wipers—none or inoperable                             2 points
                                      F. Parking
General Statute   Offense                                                          SJAFB Points
                                                                                   Assessed
NCGS 14-4(b)      Parking in violation of ordinance                                N/A
                  (basic improper parking violation)
20-161(a)         Parking a vehicle on any main-traveled portion of a              N/A
                  highway outside municipal limits when such vehicle is not
                  disabled to such extent that it cannot be moved
20-157(e)         Parking a vehicle within 100 feet of a police, fire, or rescue   N/A
                  vehicle which is engaged in investigation of accident or
                  rendering assistance
20-162(b)         Parking in a fire lane                                           N/A
20-37.6(e)(1)     Parking in designated handicapped parking space without          N/A
                  displaying permit
20-37.6(e)(3)     Parking so as to block or obstruct any curb or ramp              N/A
                  designated for use by handicapped persons
20-162(a)         Parking within 15 feet of a fire hydrant or entrance to fire     N/A
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012                                                        37


                  station, 25 feet from an intersection, or in front of a private
                  driveway
20-37.6(e)(2)     Unauthorized use of handicapped permit                            N/A

                                   G. Pedestrian Offenses
General Statute   Offense                                                           SJAFB Points
                                                                                    Assessed
20-172            Failure of pedestrian to obey traffic control signs               N/A
20-174(a)         Failure of pedestrian to yield right of way to vehicles upon      N/A
                  roadway when crossing in other than marked crosswalk or
                  at intersection
                                    H. Speeding Offenses
General Statute   Offense                                                           SJAFB Points
                                                                                    Assessed
20-141(m)         Failure to decrease speed to avoid a collision                    1 point
20-141(h)         Impeding the normal and reasonable flow of traffic (not           3 points
                  including farm tractors or other heavy equipment)
20-141.3(a)       Racing—prearranged racing                                         6 points
20-141.3(c)       Racing—authorizing or knowingly permitting one’s                  6 points
                  vehicle to be used in a prearranged speed competition
20-141.3(b)       Racing—willful speed competition (not prearranged)                6 points
20-140(b)         Reckless driving by speed—driving without due caution             6 Points/6 mo
                  and circumspection and at a speed or in a manner so as to         Suspension
                  endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property          (minimum)
                  (use only for speed in excess of 25 mph over speed limit)
20-141(a)         Speeding—driving at a speed greater than reasonable or
                  prudent for existing conditions
                  1-10 mph over posted speed limit                                  3 points
                  11-15 mph over posted speed limit                                 4 points
                  16-20 mph over posted speed limit                                 5 points
                  21 mph or greater over posted speed limit                         6 points
20-141(e)         Speeding above fixed limits (1-15mph over)
                  1-10 mph over posted speed limit                                  3 points
                  11-15 mph over posted speed limit                                 4 points
                  16-20 mph over posted speed limit                                 5 points
                  21 mph or greater over posted speed limit                         6 points
20-141(j2)        Speeding in posted work zone                                      6 points
                  (Sign must be posted at the beginning of the work zone
                  denoting the maximum penalty and the fact that the area is
                  a ―work zone‖, and a sign must be posted at the end of the
                  area, signifying where the ―work zone‖ ends)
20-141.5(a)       Speeding to elude arrest                                          6 points
 38                                  SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI31-218 20 JANUARY 2012


                                      ATTACHMENT 4
                                        DEFINITIONS

A4.1. ―Unreasonable periods‖ is defined as any motor vehicle left for more than 3 days
unattended or unmoved without prior arrangements with, or notification to, the 4 SFS. Vehicles
derelict and/or abandoned for 72 hours or more will be subject to towing and impoundment in
accordance with (IAW) paragraph 8.1. Vehicles parked in locations which prevent executing
increased Force Protection Condition (FPCON) measures will be towed. Reference: AFI 31-218
6-4
A4.2. ―Abandoned‖ is defined as: Giving up by leaving, ceasing to operate, or surrendering
one’s claim or right to the vehicle in question.
A4.3. “Derelict Vehicle‖ is defined as: Whose certificate of registration has expired and the
registered and legal owner no longer resides at the address listed on the last certificate of
registration with Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV); and/or whose major parts have been
removed so as to render the vehicle inoperable and incapable of passing inspections as required
under existing standards; and/or whose manufacture’s serial plates, vehicle identification
number, license number plates and any other means of identification have been removed so as to
nullify efforts to locate or identify the registered and legal owner; and/or whose registered and
legal owner of records disclaims ownership or releases his right thereto. Reference: Motor
Vehicle Laws of North Carolina General Statute 20-137.7
A4.4. ―Cruel‖ is defined as: causing or inflicting pain without pity, causing distress, merciless,
or causing pain or suffering.
