BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101
4TH FIGHTER WING
                                                                           6 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                        Weather

                                                       WEATHER SUPPORT PROCEDURES



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 4 OSS/OSW                                                           Certified by: 4 FW/CC
                                                                    (Colonel Jeannie M. Leavitt)
Supersedes:                                                                            Pages: 65
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101,
20 Apr 07


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 15-1, Atmosphere and Space
Environmental Support, Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 2-9.1, Weather Operations, Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Events, AFI 15-114, Functional
Resource and Weather Technical Performance Evaluation, Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 15-111,
Surface Weather Observations, AFMAN 15-124, Meteorological Codes, AFI 15-128, Air and
Space Weather Operations - Roles and Responsibilities, AFMAN 15-129V1/V2, Air and Space
Weather Operations - Processes and Procedures and AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management;
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction. It provides guidance for
using weather services at Seymour Johnson AFB, North Carolina. It establishes the
responsibilities and procedures for providing and using weather services at Seymour Johnson
AFB, North Carolina. It provides general information for weather services including weather
observations and forecasts; weather warnings, watches, and advisories; spaces weather supported
services and dissemination of information and reciprocal support. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name
 2                                             SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision institutes
changes required by the implementation of the new weather Air Force Manual 15-129 Volume 1
and Volume 2. A glossary of references and supporting information is included at Attachment 1.

       1.     GENERAL INFORMATION ................................................................................                    2
Table 1.1.    WF Duty Priorities .................................................................................................    3
       2.     WEATHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS - OBSERVING SERVICES .....................                                                    5
       3.     WEATHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS – FORECASTING SERVICES ................                                                      10
       4.     WEATHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS – SEVERE WEATHER SERVICES ........                                                           15
       5.     WEATHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS – RESPONSIBILITIES ............................                                              21
       6.     RECIPROCAL SUPPORT ....................................................................................                26

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       33

Attachment 2—SPECIAL OBSERVATION CRITERIA                                                                                            39

Attachment 3—LOCAL OBSERVATION REQUIREMENTS                                                                                          42

Attachment 4—TAF SPECIFICATION AND AMENDMENT CRITERIA                                                                                43

Attachment 5—WEATHER WARNING, WATCH, AND ADVISORY CRITERIA                                                                           46

Attachment 6—WEATHER WATCH, WARNING & ADVISORY NOTIFICATION
             DISSEMINATION                                                                                                           49

Attachment 7—WEATHER IMPACTS ON UNIT OPERATIONS                                                                                      51

Attachment 8—MOAS AND RANGES                                                                                                         56

Attachment 9—4 FW WEATHER SENSITIVITIES                                                                                              57

Attachment 10—MISSION EXECUTION FORECAST (MEF)                                                                                       60

Attachment 11—STAFF WEATHER BREIFING                                                                                                 62

Attachment 12—HURRICANE CONDITION OF READINESS (HURCON) LEVELS,
             TROPICAL STORM DEFINITIONS AND TCCOR SECTORS AND
             TROPICAL CYCLONE THREAT ASSESSMENT PRODUCT (TC-TAP)                                                                     63

Attachment 13—AGENCY DISTRIBUTION LIST                                                                                               64


1. GENERAL INFORMATION
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                         3


    1.1. Introduction. The mission of the 4th Operations Support Squadron, Weather Flight
    (4 OSS/OSW), hereafter referred to as the Weather Flight (WF), is to provide timely,
    accurate environmental intelligence to units assigned to Seymour Johnson AFB, North
    Carolina. Basic concepts and procedures are outlined in Air Force (AF) and ACC directives.
    1.2. Weather Terms Explained. There are several terms and acronyms used extensively
    throughout this instruction.
       1.2.1. Seymour Johnson AFB (KGSB): For weather purposes, is defined as the area
       within a
5 NM radius from the center of the runway. All weather products disseminated by or for
SJAFB will use KGSB as the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) location
indicator.
       1.2.2. Operational Weather Squadron (OWS): An OWS is an organization comprised of
       management, technician, and training personnel responsible for providing regional
       weather
support. Its mission is to produce operational level weather forecast products and services to
supported units within their Area of Responsibility (AOR). The 26th Operational Weather
Squadron (Barksdale AFB, LA) serves as the OWS for the southeast and south central
CONUS Area of Responsibility and provides the following services to SJAFB:
           1.2.2.1. 24-hour Terminal Aerodrome Forecasts (TAF) for within 5 nm of SJAFB
           airfield.
           1.2.2.2. 24-hour Meteorological Watch (METWATCH) and Resource Protection
           support (the 26 OWS will issue all forecast watches, warnings, and advisories).
           1.2.2.3. Issue observed WWAs during non-duty hours, backup/outages.
           1.2.2.4. Transient aircrew flight weather briefings and flight weather briefing
           support.
           1.2.2.5. Regional and operational level weather products and services.
           1.2.2.6. Maintain the WF’s Forecast Reference Material (FRM) and coordinate
           updates annually or as needed/requested by the WF.
    1.3. WF Duty Priorities.
       1.3.1. In order to ensure AF requirements are met in order of urgency, the WF will
       provide prioritized weather support, using Operational Risk Management principles, in
       the following order of service:

Table 1.1. WF Duty Priorities
1     Perform Exploitation Unit (EU) Emergency War Order (EWO) Taskings
2     Execute EU Evacuation
3     Respond to Aircraft/Ground Emergencies
4     Respond to Pilot to Metro Service (PMSV) Contacts
5     Provide SOF Support
6     Prepare/Disseminate WF Observed WWAs
 4                                   SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


7      Augment Automated Meteorological Observing System (AMOS) Observations for
       Mandatory Elements
8      Provide “Eyes Forward” support to the 26 OWS
9      Perform Severe Weather Action Procedures (SWAP)
10     Produce/Disseminate the 4 FW and 916 ARW MEF
11     Relay/Disseminate Urgent Pilot Reports (PIREPs)
12     Provide Briefings
13     Perform Coordinated METWATCH support for the 4 FW, 916 ARW, and 26 OWS
14     Perform MISSIONWATCH for the 4 FW and 916 ARW
15     Provide Other Briefing Support
16     Accomplish Training
17     Accomplish Other Administrative Tasks
     1.4. Limitations. WF support to the 4 FW is limited as follows:
        1.4.1. Interruption of the normal receipt of alphanumeric and graphic data via various
        interconnected weather data systems, Non-classified Internet Protocol Router Network
        (NIPRNET) or Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) can severely
        degrade the forecasting capabilities.
        1.4.2. Due to the unpredictability of weather events, forecasts developed for an execution
        window beyond 30-hours will be used for planning purposes only.
        1.4.3. From the back-up observation point, the runway’s complex visibility markers are
        obstructed to the south through southwest due to the construction of aircraft shelters. The
        observer is also unable to see the runway approach on each end of the runway. From the
        southwest, clockwise to the east, surrounding buildings and trees significantly obstruct
        the observer’s ability to accurately determine visibility, cloud coverage, and heights.
        Also, the security lights installed on the runway complex significantly deteriorate the
        observer’s ability to take accurate nighttime observations. In addition, the flat terrain
        surrounding the base provides only a limited number of visual markers to determine the
        prevailing visibility.
        1.4.4. In the event of a primary operating location evacuation, WF personnel will begin
        continuity of operations procedures at the Alternate Operating Location (AOL). From the
        AOL observation point, visibility of the runway complex is limited from the west-east
        (moving clockwise) due to trees and buildings. Visibility to the southwest is obstructed
        by a large grassy knoll. The remaining portion of the airfield is unobstructed. The AOL
        has no SIPRNET access; otherwise there are no administrative or operational limitations.
     1.5. Dissemination of Weather Information. Reliable communications are crucial to the
     dissemination of weather information throughout SJAFB. It is incumbent on all weather
     personnel to ensure dissemination through timely and proper notifications
        1.5.1. Joint Environmental Toolkit (JET). JET is the primary method used by the WF
        and 26 OWS for dissemination of observations, WWAs, etc. JET is an online application
        that receives data locally from both AN/FMQ-19 sensors. It uses a centralized server and
        desktop computers to transmit data to and receive data from weather agencies worldwide
        via the internet and a dedicated communications link. The Air Traffic Control (ATC)
        Tower and Radar Approach Control (RAPCON) are equipped with Air Force Automated
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                        5


     System (AFAS) monitors for viewing JET information, and the JET software can also be
     accessed on any computer connected to the base network. The JET portal will display
     current observations, forecasts, and WWAs. Organizations wanting access can contact
     the JET administrator at the WF to set up an account.
         1.5.1.1. Under normal operations when JET is fully functional, dissemination of
         weather WWAs by direct telephone notification will be limited to the following three
         agencies: 4 FW/CP, 4 OSS ATC Tower (4 OSS/OSAT), and 4 OSS Airfield
         Management Operations (4 OSS/OSAM) IAW AFI 10-229. 4 OSS/OSAT will
         forward WWAs to the SOF.
         1.5.1.2. During JET outages, WWAs will be disseminated by the WF via telephone
         to those agencies first that directly control aircraft for flight safety reasons, IAW AFI
         10-229. These agencies include the following three agencies: 4 OSS/OSAT,
         4 OSS/OSAM and 4 FW/CP. 4 OSS/OSAT will be responsible for contacting the
         SOF. Long-line dissemination will be done using another base weather station
         computer, OWS, or via the Internet using the Air Force WEB Services
         (https://weather.af.mil/AFW_WEBS/index2.php)
     1.5.2. Internet/LAN: If requested, weather services/briefings can be sent via e-mail to
     requesting agencies.
     1.5.3. Web-Based Weather Products. The WF has various weather products available on
     the OSW Share Point site. This website is continuously monitored for accuracy and is
     updated on a monthly basis at a minimum. WF SharePoint can be accessed at the
     following                                                                      link:
     https://seymourjohnson.eim.acc.af.mil/4th_fw/Operations/oss/OSW/default.aspx
  1.6. Release of Weather Information. Support to non-DoD agencies and the general public
  will not be provided without prior approval from 4 FW Public Affairs and the 4 OG/CC.
  1.7. Change to SJAFBI 15-101. Requests for changes to this instruction will be coordinated
  through the WF annually or as changes in weather support requirements dictate.
2. WEATHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS - OBSERVING SERVICES
  2.1. Duty Hours and Contacting Base Weather Station. The WF provides a certified
  weather technician at the base weather station, Building 4507, as indicated in the DoD Flight
  Information Publication. The Airfield Services forecaster hours are 0700L-Last Land,
  Monday through Friday excluding holidays and down days. Operational hours may vary due
  to local mission schedule. In addition, 4 FW staff weather services are available Monday -
  Friday 0730-1630L, excluding holidays and down days. During limited-duty hours, a
  qualified weather technician will remain on call and can be recalled directly via Command
  Post (4 FW/CP). Weather support will be available at all times from the 26 OWS. Contact
  information for these agencies, to include the standby weather technician cell phone, is listed
  in Attachment 1.
  2.2. Primary Observation Equipment. The AN/FMQ-19 AMOS will be the primary piece
  of equipment used to take and format weather observations at Seymour Johnson AFB. It
  includes the following sensors:
     2.2.1. Wind Sensor (10 meter height).
6                                   SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


       2.2.2. Ceilometer.
       2.2.3. Visibility Sensor.
       2.2.4. RVR Sensor.
       2.2.5. Temperature Sensor.
       2.2.6. Relative Humidity Sensor.
       2.2.7. Liquid Precipitation Measurement Sensor.
       2.2.8. Lightning Detection Sensor.
       2.2.9. Barometer (Station Pressure/Altimeter Setting).
       2.2.10. The AN/FMQ-19 interfaces directly with JET so observations to local and long-
       line agencies automatically disseminate. (See paragraph 2.10).
    2.3. Official Observation Sites. The official automated observation sites are the location of
    the AN/FMQ-19 sensor suites located at each end of the runway complex. Both locations
    have sensors for measuring wind speeds, wind direction, visibility, runway visual range, and
    cloud heights. Temperature, dew point, atmospheric pressure, precipitation and lightning
    detection readings are only taken from the eastern end of the runway. The official manual
    observing location is at the end of the sidewalk located at the south side of building 4507.
    2.4. Automation and Augmentation of AN/FMQ-19 Data. The AN/FMQ-19 and JET
    systems are designed to measure, format, and disseminate weather observations
    automatically, without assistance from weather personnel. However, limitations to the
    equipment exist and there are times where augmentation of the observation is necessary.
    Augmentation is the process of having a position-qualified weather technician use ORM to
    manually add or edit data to an observation generated by the data gathered from the
    AN/FMQ-19. Normal augmentation will occur when the weather technician needs to correct
    any erroneous output of the AN/FMQ-19 during an observation or send a SPECI in any
    situation the technician deems mission critical. Two other specific augmentation processes
    used are supplementing and backup. Supplementing is a method of manually adding
    meteorological information in an automated observation that is beyond the capabilities of the
    AN/FMQ-19 to detect or report. Backup is the method of manually providing meteorological
    data or disseminating an AN/FMQ-19 observation when the primary automated method is
    not operational, unavailable due to sensor, or communication failure.
       2.4.1. Supplementation of Observations: Weather technicians on duty will supplement
       the AN/FMQ-19 observation prior to transmission when the technician observes weather
       phenomena occurring that are beyond the AN/FMQ-19’s capability to detect. Per
       AFMAN 15-111, Section 3.3, the weather phenomena needing to be supplemented into
       the observations are:
           2.4.1.1. Tornado, Funnel Cloud, or Waterspout.
           2.4.1.2. Hail greater than or equal to one quarter inch (1/4”).
           2.4.1.3. Volcanic Ash.
       2.4.2. Back-up of Observations: Weather technicians will back-up the AN/FMQ-19
       equipment if the system or sensor is not operational or unavailable due to sensor or
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                    7


     communication failure. Weather technicians will make every attempt to immediately log
     out any broken equipment, except when immediate flight safety (i.e., in-flight
     emergency) warrants otherwise.          Backup information is required for long-line
     dissemination, for OWS TAF production, and for local ground-to-air dissemination to
     sustain air operations at the airfield. Manual observing procedures per the AFMAN 15-
     111 will be used when performing backup operations. The WF will resume automated
     observations when the equipment outage/communications failure has ended.
  2.5. Equipment Limitations and Backup Procedures. Current known equipment
  limitations and backup procedures are listed below.
     2.5.1. AN/FMQ-19 Limitations.
         2.5.1.1. This system is only able to sample atmospheric information in the immediate
         vicinity and may not provide an accurate representation of weather in the entire
         aerodrome complex. Therefore, ceilings and visibility will only be measured and
         reported from or above the official observation site. Differing surrounding weather
         phenomenon cannot be measured by the instruments without human augmentation.
         2.5.1.2. When visibility changes rapidly, the AN/FMQ-19 will lag the reported
         visibility due to the time-averaged algorithms used by the system.
     2.5.2. AN/FMQ-19 Backup: During AN/FMQ-19 sensor failures, the following will
     occur:
         2.5.2.1. Tactical weather equipment (except ceiling and visibility) will be used to
         backup all AN/FMQ-19 instruments.
         2.5.2.2. There is no backup to RVR measuring equipment. Therefore, RVRNO will
         be reported during applicable sensor failures.
         2.5.2.3. Visibility will be backed up by human observers at Bldg 4507 or the AOL,
         as applicable.
         2.5.2.4. When tactical systems are used to backup the AN/FMQ-19, altimeter setting
         and wind values will be reported as estimated.
         2.5.2.5. The weather flight has no backup equipment for ceiling. If the ceilometer is
         non-operational, weather technicians will perform manual sky condition observations
         and will leverage alternate information sources, including PIREPs.
     2.5.3. Precipitation Measurement: The AN/FMQ-19 is the primary instrument for
     measuring local liquid precipitation measurements. In the event of AN/FMQ-19 failure, a
     rain gauge will be used as backup. Collection site will be located on the west side of
     Building 4507 at the primary duty location and near the entry control point for the ATC
     tower at the AOL. Both locations will site the rain gauge at ground level.
         2.5.3.1. Observing Location: All elements will be taken consistent with the SJAFB
         rain gauge location except for observing visibility, which may be done in the ATC
         tower located at the south end of bldg 4507.
  2.6. Determination of Automated Observations: All observations that have been
  automatically generated and disseminated without weather technician involvement will be
  preceded by AUTO at the beginning of the observation. This is an automatic function of the
 8                                    SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


     JET System. If the observation has been augmented or backed-up, then AUTO will be
     removed from the observation and replaced with A02A in the remark section.
     2.7. Additional Weather Equipment: The following list of weather equipment is used for
     observing and forecasting or during augmentation of primary equipment:
        2.7.1. Kestrel 4500 Pocket Weather Tracker. The Kestrel 4500 is a hand-held,
        commercial
off-the-shelf device capable of providing measurements of wind speed, direction, temperature,
wind chill, humidity, heat index, dew point, wet-bulb temperature, barometric pressure, pressure
altitude, and density altitude. It is used during evacuations to the AOL and as a backup to the
AN/FMQ-19.
        2.7.2. Rain Gauge. The rain gauge is a plastic cylinder capable of measuring up to two
        inches of liquid precipitation. There is an attached stake which is placed into the ground.
        2.7.3. TMQ-53. The TMQ-53 is a portable weather observation system which will be
        utilized for long term AN/FMQ-19 outages. It has the ability to measure ceilings,
        visibility, temperature, dew point, lightning, present weather, wind direction, and wind
        speed.
     2.8. Equipment Outage. The WF will track all equipment outages locally and report
     significant outages to HQ ACC Directorate of Weather (ACC/A3OW). WF personnel will
     immediately notify the 26 OWS of any suspected or reported automated observing system
     sensor degradations or failure.
     2.9. Types of Observations: The following are observations produced and disseminated by
     the AN/FMQ-19. Note: All times will reference the 24-hour UTC clock.
        2.9.1. Meteorological Aviation Report (METAR): The METAR is the scheduled hourly
        observation taken between 55 and 59 minutes past the hour and contains: type of report,
        station identifier, date and time of report, report modifier (as applicable), wind, visibility,
        runway visual range, present weather and obscurations, sky condition, temperature, dew
        point, altimeter setting, and key remarks.
        2.9.2. Airfield Special (SPECI) Observations. In addition to hourly weather observations,
SPECI observations are disseminated when observed weather criteria pass through significant
weather thresholds established by AFMAN 15-111 and the 4 FW during periods when a normal
METAR observation is not scheduled to be disseminated. These observations consist of the type
of report, station identifier, date and time of report, report modifier (as applicable), time of the
event, wind direction and speed, visibility, present weather, sky condition, air temperature, dew
point temperature, altimeter setting, and optional remarks. General criteria for special
observations are listed in Attachment 2 and are consistent with mission-limiting parameters for
local airfield operations/approaches.
     2.10. Dissemination of Observations. The AN/FMQ-19 interfaces directly with JET as the
     primary dissemination tool for observations. If JET is inoperative or if the LAN is down,
     technicians will take the observation created by the AN/FMQ-19 and transmit it to agencies
     that control local air traffic (ATC and RAPCON) via telephone, radio, or any other available
     form of communication first, then continue with local dissemination. Tower watch
     Supervisor will pass the observation to the SOF. After local agencies have been notified,
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                     9


  AN/FMQ-19 observations will be transmitted through the Air Force WEB Service
  (AFWEBS) or via another weather unit (e.g., 26 OWS or 20 OSS/OSW).
  2.11. Weather Watch. IAW AFMAN 15-111, the AN/FMQ-19 will be operated in full
  automatic mode to perform a Continuous Weather Watch, providing METAR and SPECI
  observations. In addition, Weather technicians will perform a Continuous Weather Watch
  when tornadic activity is observed.
     2.11.1. Basic Weather Watch (BWW). The AN/FMQ-19 continuously monitors and
     disseminates METAR and SPECI observations on a 24/7 basis. WF technicians will
     periodically check weather conditions at intervals not to exceed one hour during normal
     duty hours to ensure augmentation operations do not need to be performed. A BWW is
     only required during augmentation or AN/FMQ-19 system failure/outage. A BWW is
     also performed when the threshold for supplemental criteria is forecast to occur within
     two hours. During a BWW, weather technicians will check weather conditions at
     intervals not to exceed 20 minutes since the last observation/check and will determine the
     need for a SPECI observation. A SPECI observation is required when any of the
     following conditions are observed to be occurring:
        2.11.1.1. Ceiling forms below or decreases to less than 1,500 feet.
        2.11.1.2. Ceiling dissipates, or increases to equal or exceed 1,500 feet.
        2.11.1.3. Visibility decreases to less than 3 miles (4800 meters).
        2.11.1.4. Visibility increases to equal or exceed 3 miles (4800 meters).
        2.11.1.5. Precipitation (any form).
        2.11.1.6. Thunderstorms.
        2.11.1.7. Fog or Mist.
        2.11.1.8. In addition to the above minimum requirements, forecasters will remain
        alert for any other changes in weather conditions that will require a SPECI or LOCAL
        observation, as listed in Attachments 2 and 3. Weather personnel will also monitor
        local area observational forecast products as often as necessary to keep abreast of
        changes expected to their area of responsibility.
        2.11.1.9. BWW will be conducted regardless of the operating mode using good ORM
        practices.
  2.12. Cooperative Weather Watch. To ensure accuracy in automated observations, a
  Cooperative Weather Watch has been established between the WF and ATC personnel. This
  is designed to aid weather technicians in augmenting/backing up AN/FMQ-19 observations.
  While performing the Cooperative Weather Watch, ATC personnel will immediately contact
  4 OSS/OSW weather technicians:
     2.12.1. Upon receipt of any PIREP from an aircrew.
     2.12.2. When any of the following criteria is observed and not reported in the latest
     weather observation:
        2.12.2.1. Tornadic Activity.
 10                                  SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


          2.12.2.2. Hail (of any size).
          2.12.2.3. Volcanic Ash.
          2.12.2.4. Thunderstorms/Lightning.
          2.12.2.5. Rapidly decreasing ceiling or visibility.
          2.12.2.6. Precipitation.
          2.12.2.7. Tower prevailing and sector visibility when tower visibility is less than 4
          SM/6000 meters or different from the surface prevailing visibility.
          2.12.2.8. Any weather information from aircrews or ATC personnel that significantly
          differs from the latest observation.
          2.12.2.9. Any other significant weather phenomena not reported that is a threat to
          flight safety.
       2.12.3. Cooperative Weather Watch will be performed in accordance with local
       procedures.
WF personnel will train air traffic controllers in Cooperative Weather Watch observation
techniques. Specific responsibilities of Control Tower (4 OSS/OSAT) personnel are described in
section 6.6.2.
   2.13. “Eyes Forward” Process/Procedure. The WF will serve an “eyes forward” role for
   26 OWS forecasters, allowing for the integration of weather data, meteorological satellite
   imagery, lightning detection readouts, and non-standard weather data systems to create an
   integrated weather picture and near-term forecast for the OWS. This process provides
   meaningful meteorological information not contained in the coded observations and is an
   integral part of our METWATCH process (phone calls, emails, etc.). Additionally, 4
   OSS/OSW weather technicians integrate the current state of the atmosphere into an
   understanding of future impacts on forecast conditions and communicate these impacts to 26
   OWS, enhancing the total support to local units. WF personnel will continuously stay
   engaged with 26 OWS forecasters during duty hours to fulfill this “eyes forward” function
   and ensure complete weather support is given to SJAFB. In the case of unforeseen
   circumstances, such as the need for enhanced mission watch, expanded eyes forward, or
   communications failure/outages between the 26 OWS and the WF, the WF/CC or NCOIC
   will initiate SWAP procedures when requested by the 26 OWS.
       2.13.1. A Datasheet exists between the 4 OSS and the 26 OWS, outlining the WF
       responsibilities supporting the “eyes forward” function. This document is reviewed and
       updated annually.
   2.14. Recall Standby Personnel. If required during non-duty hours, weather personnel can
   be recalled and ready for operations within 30 minutes of notification (duty and home phone
   numbers are located on the recall rosters provided to 4 FW/CP). If severe weather is
   expected, SWAP will be activated with as much lead time as possible to analyze threats or
   expected severe weather impacts. The team will coordinate and provide situational awareness
   to local leadership and keep them informed of all pertinent weather events. SWAP is further
   defined in section 4.5.
3. WEATHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS – FORECASTING SERVICES
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                         11


   3.1. Duty Hours: 4 OSS/OSW will provide forecast services to all 4 FW aircraft departing
   SJAFB. Aircrew will normally be briefed at their respective squadrons by dedicated briefers.
   Staff weather support to the 4 FW is available during routine office hours (Paragraph 2.1.) or
   as required during exercises and contingencies. For transient aircrews operating from SJAFB,
   flight weather briefing support will be provided during duty hours as priorities permit. If duty
   priorities do not allow the WF to provide transient aircrew briefs in a timely manner (30
   minutes), aircrews will be referred to the 26 OWS for support. 26 OWS briefers can be
   reached at DSN 331-2651. Aircraft departing on weekends, holidays or outside 4 FW flying
   hours must also contact the 26 OWS for weather support. Flight weather briefings from the
   OWS       can    also     be    requested    and     retrieved    via   their     web      page,
   https://ows.barksdale.af.mil/wx_brief/index.cfm?fuseaction=request&UID=&BW=H&
   UF=M&AOR=1&USEHF=1 . Transient aircrews should request routine flight weather
   briefings a minimum of two hours prior to desired brief time to give the 26 OWS adequate
   time to prepare. The 26 OWS will complete no-notice and short-notice briefings when able
   based on their current workload, available manpower, and duty priorities. The OWS will
   prioritize no-notice flight weather briefing requests below existing requests unless special
   circumstances warrant a higher priority (such as: alert, search and rescue, medical
   evacuation). Transient aircrews may request OWS support via dedicated computer equipment
   located in the Base Operations flight planning room adjacent to the WF.                       If
   immediate/specialized weather services are needed during non-duty hours, 4 OSS/OSW
   forecasting personnel can be recalled at any time by contacting the 4 OSS/OSW standby
   weather technicians.
   3.2. Terminal Aerodrome Forecasts (TAFs). The TAF is a specialized, 30-hour
   aerodrome forecast specifying key weather elements and conditions for the airfield complex.
   The airfield complex is defined as the area within 5 nautical miles (8000 meters) of the center
   of SJAFB (KGSB) runway. The TAF is issued at 0200Z, 1000Z and 1800Z (Standard Time),
   or 0100Z, 0900Z, 1700Z (Daylight Savings Time) by the 26 OWS and will be amended IAW
   AFMAN 15-129 V1 and local amendment criteria. Each TAF specifies the time of
   occurrence to the nearest hour, duration and intensity (if applicable) of weather conditions
   expected to occur. The OWS forecaster will amend the TAF when an unforecasted change
   occurs and is expected to last at least 30 minutes, or if forecast conditions do not occur by the
   specified hour and are not expected to occur within the next 30 minutes. TAFs will be
   coordinated with the WF prior to dissemination when a SJAFB weather technician is on duty.
   TAF specification/amendment criteria are listed in Attachment 4.
   3.3. Mission Execution Forecast (MEF). The WF will produce a tailored MEF to the
   specific weather parameters, thresholds, and sensitivities of the 4 FW and its mission(s) and
   include a forecast for SJAFB.
      3.3.1. 4 FW MEF. The MEF will be disseminated via mass weather briefings to the 333
      FS, 334 FS, 335 FS, and 336 FS, normally four hours before takeoff and will be
      supplemented with a Step brief. Step briefings are given 60 minutes prior to takeoff and
      highlight data for specific aircraft flights. The MEF is also posted to the WF SharePoint:
https://seymourjohnson.eim.acc.af.mil/4th_fw/Operations/oss/OSW/default.aspx. MEF scope
procedures are listed in Attachment 10.
12                               SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


     3.3.2. 916 ARW MEF. The 916 ARW MEF is completed on a routine basis using a
     locally produced 4 FW Form 181. 916 ARW MEFs are prepared the night before using
     the information from the 916 ARW flying schedule. The MEF will be completed and
     emailed or faxed to the 916 ARW Command Post no later than 30 minutes prior to the
     crew show       time. The MEF is generally emailed three to three and a half hours prior
     to take-off. 4 FW Form 181 contains an Air Refueling Route forecast section. The valid
     time for this section is 30 minutes prior to the time expected in the mission area through
     1hour past the time expected to be out of the mission area. Clouds in this section are
     entered using the base, amount and tops format for each layer (e.g. 250 BKN 280). For
     examples of 916 ARW MEF products click on the following link:
     https://seymourjohnson.eim.acc.af.mil/4th_fw/Operations/oss/OSW/default.aspx.
     3.3.3. Supported Unit MEF Requirements. The format, timing, and dissemination the
     MEF will be driven by supported unit requirements. 4 OSS/OSW will coordinate with the
     supported unit(s) to determine the content and format to ensure it contains decision-grade
     information applicable to the mission. The flying squadrons’ Directors of Operations
     (DOs) are encouraged to submit suggestions to the WF for the format, timing,
     dissemination and content of the MWP to ensure it contains necessary information
     needed to make the mission operating decision. Examples of content that has previously
     been added to the MEF include: IR visibility, transmissivity, enhanced information
     involving illumination data, valid times, etc.
     3.3.4. Liaison Position. When WF manning dictates, MW forecasters may provide all
     Mission Weather Element functions from the WF. In these instances, Step Briefs will be
     conveyed to all the respective squadron Top-3s. The Top-3 will then verbally relay any
     MEF changes to the aircrew as they depart for their missions.
  3.4. Pilot-to-Metro Service (PMSV). The PMSV is available during WF duty hours on
  323.925 MHz, with a standard operating range of 30 nautical miles. As duties allow, SJAFB
  Tower personnel will monitor and answer PMSV radio calls on this frequency when the WF
  PMSV is inoperative or evacuates.
  3.5. Pilot Reports (PIREPs).
     3.5.1. PIREPs are reports of in-flight weather made by aircrews. PIREPs will be relayed
     to the WF via PMSV, phone-patch, ATC agencies, or the SOF. ATC or Base Operations
     are required to pass PIREPs to WF forecasters as soon as possible. Any 4 FW aircrew
     encountering hazardous weather conditions which jeopardize flight safety should report
     conditions to the WF IAW AFI 11-202V3, General Flight Rules. Other useful
     information includes: flight level winds, bases/tops of clouds (approach ceilings),
     visibility (approach visibility), turbulence, icing, thunderstorms, lightning sighting
     locations, hail, or low level wind shear, and runway braking action.
     3.5.2. Aircrews providing a PIREP must state location (including flight level) and time
     the significant weather was observed for a PIREP to be disseminated, IAW AFMAN 15-
     124.
     3.5.3. Any PIREPs significant to local flying will be disseminated locally using JET.
     Significant local PIREPs will include any weather criteria at or below the TAF
     specification criteria listed in Attachment 4 with the exception of temperature. At a
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                    13


     minimum, all urgent (UUA) PIREPs will be disseminated for other agencies to view and
     locally via approved local dissemination system. Urgent PIREPS are those which include
     any of the following elements:
         3.5.3.1. Tornado, water spout, or funnel cloud.
         3.5.3.2. Thunderstorms are reported as severe if thunderstorms are widespread, along
         a line with little or no space between individual storms, or embedded in cloud layers
         or concealed in haze. Isolated or scattered thunderstorms not embedded in clouds or
         concealed in haze are not reported as severe.
         3.5.3.3. Tropical Cyclones.
         3.5.3.4. Squall Lines.
         3.5.3.5. Severe Icing.
         3.5.3.6. Severe or extreme turbulence, including Clear Air Turbulence (CAT).
         3.5.3.7. Mountain wave turbulence.
         3.5.3.8. Widespread dust storm or sand storm.
         3.5.3.9. Low-Level Wind Shear (LLWS). When a fluctuation in airspeed occurs that
         is 10 kts or greater.
         3.5.3.10. Hail.
         3.5.3.11. Volcanic eruption or ash (VA) when reported by any source, in the air or on
         the ground.
         3.5.3.12. Any condition that, in the judgment of the person entering the PIREP into
         the system, would present an extreme hazard to flight.
     3.5.4. If JET is not available, the WF will contact the 26 OWS at DSN 331-2600 and ask
     the duty forecaster to assist in disseminating the PIREP.
  3.6. Mission Watch (MISSIONWATCH). The weather technician will conduct a
  MISSIONWATCH for 4 FW flying missions IAW local procedures. Mission meteorological
  watch is a deliberate process for monitoring terrestrial weather or the space environment for
  specific mission-limiting environmental factors. The MISSIONWATCH process identifies
  and alerts decision makers to changes affecting daily missions. If observed weather criteria
  pass critical mission thresholds outlined in Attachment 9, then WF personnel will amend the
  MEF/step briefings and notify each supported units’ Top 3 via the following
  mediums/agencies:
     3.6.1. Flying Squadron Mission Weather Element Technician.
         3.6.1.1. 333 FS: 722-3490
         3.6.1.2. 334 FS: 722-3085
         3.6.1.3. 335 FS: 722-3064
         3.6.1.4. 336 FS: 722-3936
     3.6.2. OG: 722-2601
14                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


     3.6.3. SOF: 722-4176
     3.6.4. Air Traffic Control: 722-4173
     3.6.5. Airfield Management: 722-4097
     3.6.6. ORM will be applied to all MISSIONWATCH activities.
  3.7. Deviations from Centralized Products.
     3.7.1. In the interest of flight safety or mission requirements, WF technicians may
     deviate from forecast products produced by the 26 OWS as long as the criteria does not
     pass through thresholds listed in Attachment 4. If the MEF deviation passes through these
     TAF criteria thresholds, the WF will coordinate required amendments to the existing
     TAF and WWAs with the OWS.
     3.7.2. Deviations will be documented and coordinated with the OWS to ensure any
     required amendments or weather warnings are issued, and the best possible product
     reaches all units.
     3.7.3. The WF will produce a MEF utilizing the current observation when the current
     TAF is not representative. Additionally, the WF will issue a forecast weather warning or
     advisory if either or both of the following situations occur:
         3.7.3.1. In the interest of flight safety or resource protection, a timely response to a
         warning or advisory cannot be met by the OWS. As soon as practical after issuance,
         the WF forecaster will notify 26 OWS to hand-off resource protection.
         3.7.3.2. If the OWS experiences equipment problems and calls the WF to issue the
         warning or advisory.
  3.8. Space Weather Support. The WF will notify supported agencies of space weather
  impacts and of the global and regional scale products available so they may assess potential
  space weather impacts on aircraft and operations. The WF will provide HF, UHF, and GPS
  error forecasts as part of the daily MEF.
     3.8.1. The WF will utilize the current suite of global and regional scale products
     provided by AFWA and the 26 OWS, which allows units to assess possible space
     weather impacts to aircraft and operations.
     3.8.2. The WF will coordinate with 4 FW agencies concerning space weather thresholds
     and requirements to determine which products provide the most value in supporting 4
     FW operations.
     3.8.3. As required, the WF will submit support assistance requests to Air Force Weather
     Agency’s (AFWA) Requirement Branch when the current suite of products do not meet
     WF unit requirements.
  3.9. Bio-Environmental Information: 4 OSS/OSW will provide Chemical Downwind
  Messages (CDMs), Effective Downwind Messages (EDMs), and other pertinent weather
  information to Bio-environmental/Emergency Management agencies as needed.
  3.10. Electro-Optical Support. General electro-optical forecasts will be annotated on the
  MEF if required for the mission. Target Acquisition Weapons Software (TAWS) is used to
  provide electro-optical support as part of the military decision-making process (MDMP) and
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                       15


  Intelligence Preparation of the Operational Environment (IPOE). This information is
  delivered in the form of at Tactical Decision Aid (TDA). TAWS is an Air Force and Army
  developed, certified, and approved TDA that generates physics-based weather impacts in an
  easy to understand format. Units and other decision-makers can request mission specific
  TDAs for both friendly and threat platforms. For the weather input, TAWS may use real-time
  or model weather data downloaded directly from AFWA or a Navy reach-back data server. 4
  OSS/OSW weather technicians will provide a TDA product using preset data for each area
  the aircrew will be operating, providing the aircrew with: absolute humidity, transmissivity,
  IR visibility, and thermal crossover. For any other data or special support, weather
  technicians require at least two hours notification and a detailed list of mission parameters to
  create the TDA product.
     3.10.1. Required Information for TAWS Support. The following information must be
     provided to 4 OSS/OSW to generate TAWS products. This can be accomplished by
     contacting each of the on-site weather technicians at each flying squadron or any 4
     OSS/OSW weather technicians at the weather flight (722-4087/4089): Note: Associating
     TAWS sensor ID numbers with a real-world sensor/weapon systems makes the
     information classified SECRET and must be protected accordingly.
         3.10.1.1. Aircrew name/squadron.
         3.10.1.2. Voice phone number/fax number/e-mail address.
         3.10.1.3. Type of target.
         3.10.1.4. Target background.
         3.10.1.5. Sensor name.
         3.10.1.6. Target Latitude/Longitude.
         3.10.1.7. Target elevation.
         3.10.1.8. Date/Time over Target.
         3.10.1.9. Run-in altitude.
         3.10.1.10. Is target heated, cooled, or moving? If moving, include direction/speed of
         movement.
         3.10.1.11. TDA output pick-up/required time and a contact number or e-mail
         address.
         3.10.1.12. Run-in direction.
         3.10.1.13. Target orientation.
         3.10.1.14. Target background slope.
         3.10.1.15. Target Surrounding areas.
4. WEATHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS – SEVERE WEATHER SERVICES
  4.1. Weather Watches, Warnings, and Advisories (WWAs). 4 OSS/OSW performs a
  Meteorological Watch (METWATCH) to detect the approach or development of weather
  phenomena of operational interest, including severe weather. Notification of events that are
  expected to adversely impact operations or pose hazards to life or property within five NM of
16                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


  the airfield is required by most SJAFB units. This notice is provided by the issuance of
  weather advisories, watches, and warnings. All WWA criteria and agencies responsible for
  issuing the WWA can be found in Attachment 6.
  4.2. Primary Dissemination. The 26 OWS will begin the dissemination process for
  forecast WWAs by coordinating with the on duty weather technician. Afterwards, the 26
  OWS will transmit the applicable product over JET. This data will be displayed on the JET
  Flight Operations terminals located in the control tower and RAPCON. In addition, the
  watch/warning will be transmitted via telephone using an automated notification system
  called the Integrated Weather Warning Capability (IWWC). For observed warnings and
  advisories, the WF will be the issuing agency during duty hours and will also use JET for
  dissemination. After the WW/WA has been disseminated on JET, 4 OSS/OSW weather
  technicians will make telephone verification of notification with ATC, 4 FW/CP, Airfield
  Management, squadron briefers, and the ICC weather person (during exercises or
  contingencies).
  4.3. Numbering Procedures: All SJAFB Weather Watches, Warnings and Advisories will
  be numbered using the following format: XX-yyy, where XX stands for the month the
  warning was issued and yyy represents a cumulative total of each WWA issued for that
  month. EXAMPLE: Warning number 02-004 would be the 4th warning issued during the
  month of February. A watch, warning, or advisory are counted separately. Therefore, it is
  possible to have a Watch, Warning and Advisory issued simultaneously that have the same
  number.
  4.4. Additional WWA Information: WWAs are further disseminated by the 4 FW/CP
  IAW the notification matrix in Attachment 6 and by 4 OSS/OSAA as specified in paragraph
  6.4.1.
     4.4.1. The WF will issue WWAs whenever the 26 OWS is unable to support this
     requirement due to equipment problems or relocation. Additionally, the WF will issue
     WWAs for imminent weather conditions that pose a hazard to life or property when time
     is     critical. In these rare cases, the OWS will be back-briefed regarding the event as
     soon as possible and IAW duty priorities after the WF notifies local agencies. This will
     ensure the OWS enters the WWA into the automatic warning dissemination/tracking
     system and assumes METWATCH for the WW.
     4.4.2. Only one Weather Warning will be in effect at any one time. A warning may
     contain more than one warning criteria with different valid times for each of the criteria.
     The only exception to this is lightning which may be issued as a separate warning.
  4.5. Severe Weather Action Procedures (SWAP). Severe weather is defined as any
  weather condition that poses a hazard to property or life.
     4.5.1. The Severe Weather Action Team (SWAT) has been established to assist the
     forecaster when severe weather conditions threaten the base. The SWAT consists of a
     SWAT chief and a standby weather technician. The SWAT chief consists of the Weather
     Flight Commander, Wing Weather Officer, or Flight Superintendant. The standby
     weather technician will always be available and on-call before/during/after any severe
     weather forecasts and occurrences via the standby weather cell phone. Once established
     the SWAT chief is the only authority to deactivate the SWAT.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                    17


    4.5.2. At a minimum, the SWAT will be activated whenever watches or warnings are
    issued for the following conditions:
       4.5.2.1. Tornadic activity
       4.5.2.2. Severe Thunderstorms (Convective Winds >50kt or Hail >3/4 Inch)
       4.5.2.3. Damaging Non-Convective Winds > 50kts
       4.5.2.4. Heavy Precipitation (Rain/Snow > 2 Inch in < 12 Hours)
       4.5.2.5. Freezing precipitation (Any Intensity)
       4.5.2.6. SJAFB is placed in any HURCON level
    4.5.3. During Duty Hours: If any of the watches or warnings listed in paragraph 4.5.2 are
    issued, the on duty Airfield Services technician will initiate SWAP by notifying the WF
    Commander, NCOIC, and OIC of Weather Operations.
    4.5.4. The WF/CC will initiate the SWAT when weather conditions are forecasted to be
    severe or there is a communications outage.
    4.5.5. All personnel will work as a team to increase radar, satellite, and lightning
    detection situational awareness, and meteorological watch observations at the WF. 4
    OSS/OSW personnel will augment observations as required to maintain expanded “eyes-
    forward” situational awareness for the 26 OWS (See paragraph 2.4.1.).
    4.5.6. Weather support during periods of severe weather will be limited to mission-
    essential support only to ensure critical weather information is relayed in a timely manner
    to those controlling flying or providing base resource protection.
    4.5.7. All severe weather watches and warnings will be disseminated to base agencies
    through JET and confirmed via telephone notification according to paragraph 4.2 of this
    instruction.
    4.5.8. SWAT members will act as the severe weather liaison to 4 FW leadership.
            Depending on the situation, additional notification, to include telephone calls,
    electronic mail messages, and in-person briefings may need to occur. The SWAT chief is
    responsible to coordinate these activities with 4 OSS/CC, 4 OSS/DO, 4 OG/CC, 4
    OG/CD, 4 FW/CC, and 4 FW/CV as applicable.
    4.5.9. Non-Duty Hours Weather Recall Action Procedures: During non-duty hours, 26
    OWS will contact the standby weather technician to relay all warnings issued or any
    communication outages. The standby weather technician and the 4 OSS/OSW Flight
    Commander will then discuss the weather situation and determine whether or not to
    activate the SWAT and recall personnel if/when required. Once SWAT is activated,
    appropriate personnel will be recalled and 4 OSS/OSW personnel will augment all
    observations as required to maintain expanded “eyes forward” situational awareness for
    the 26 OWS. In addition, they will provide enhanced METWATCH and follow SWAP
    guidance outlined above in accordance with local procedures and this chapter if/when
    required.
18                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


     4.5.10. SWAP will be exercised at least annually. Each activation will be documented to
     include lessons learned. A real-world severe weather event may serve as the annual
     exercise provided it is documented appropriately.
  4.6. Tropical Weather Action Procedures:
     4.6.1. Tropical Weather Action Procedures (Seymour Johnson Installation Emergency
     Management Plan (IEMP) 10-2 Annex B). The WF will provide an initial notification to
     the Command Post whenever hurricanes or tropical storms (TS) are forecast to appear
     between 27º and 44º North latitude and between 68º and 88º West longitude. The WF
     will keep the 4 FW/CC and designated key personnel informed of the current situation
     and forecast track of the storm.
        4.6.1.1. The National Hurricane Center (NHC) issues the official tropical
        storm/hurricane track and intensity forecast for the Atlantic Ocean or Caribbean Sea.
        The NHC forecast is the official forecast for all tropical systems that could impact
        Department of Defense assets. Warnings and bulletins are normally issued every six
        hours. These products typically include center position, intensity forecasts for the
        next 72 hours (unless dissipation or extra tropical transition is predicted to occur
        earlier), radius of 50-KT winds, and direction and speed of movement. Tropical
        storm/hurricane forecasts past 48 hours contain a high degree of uncertainty, are for
        planning purposes only, and are subject to change. Notifications will include the
        forecast error probability in discussion bulletins or on the forecast products.
        4.6.1.2. Tropical Cyclone Threat Assessment Product (TC-TAP). When a tropical
        storm is forecast to impact SJAFB, the 26 OWS will issue a Tropical Cyclone Threat
        Assessment Product (TC-TAP). The TC-TAP bulletin identifies wind impacts on an
        airfield or locality by tailoring forecast for local terrain effects to help mission
        planners and base agencies make mission execution decisions such as evacuation and
        force protection. The 26 OWS will create this product when winds greater than or
        equal to 35 knots are expected during the next 96 hours at any of their TAF locations.
        The TC-TAP forecast for SJAFB specifically addresses the maximum wind
        expected/date/time (sustained and gusts), closest point of approach, beginning and
        ending of 25 knot sustained winds, 35 knot sustained winds, 50 knot sustained winds,
        80 knot sustained winds, and 20 knot crosswinds. Any time the 26 OWS issues the
        new TC-TAP (or the NHC issues a bulletin and the 26 OWS does not issue a TC-
        TAP), the WF will update supported units and designated key 4 FW personnel with
        the latest information via phone, e-mail, or fax. To access the 26 OWS TC-TAP,
        reference the link below. After clicking on the link, select the appropriately named
        storm                                   (i.e.                                Claude).
        https://ows.barksdale.af.mil/index.cfm?fuseaction=by_type.tropical.none&UID=
        &BW=H&UF=M&AOR=1&USEHF=1 .
  4.7. OPREP-3 Reporting
     4.7.1. Definition: OPREP-3 (Operational Report-3) reports immediately notify
     commanders of any significant event or incident that rises to the level of MAJCOM, HQ
     USAF, or DOD interests. 4 FW/CP will submit the applicable OPREP-3 regardless of
     whether or not the event is being reported through other channels. OPREP-3 reports do
     not replace the requirement for more detailed reports. A reportable incident is an incident,
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                   19


    event, or accident which generates a higher level of military action, causes a national
    reaction, affects international relationships, causes immediate widespread coverage in
    news media, is clearly against the national interest, or affects current national policy.
    Significant weather occurrences are those in which significant weather result in damage.
       4.7.1.1. OPREP-3, Pinnacle/Beeline incidents/events. OPREP-3 Pinnacle/Beeline
       reports use command and control channels to notify commanders immediately of any
       event or incident that may attract international, national, USAF, or significant news
       media interest. While WF personnel will primarily be responsible for OPREP-3
       reporting due to damage/injury from weather events, they may also be required to
       submit reports based on non-weather events. AFI 10-206, Chapter 3, lists various
       criteria and situations that would require these different reports.
       4.7.1.2. OPREP-3B, Beeline, Severe Weather Events. A Beeline provides
       information quickly through the chain of command to AF-level and may be of interest
       to specified offices outside the MAJCOM. A Beeline report is required for all severe
       weather events when damage occurs. The WF and OWS will provide information
       IAW AFI 10-206 to the 4 FW/CP whenever the following significant weather occurs
       and results in damage or impedes operations.
           4.7.1.2.1. Tornadic Activity.
           4.7.1.2.2. High Winds (> 50 knots to include gusts).
           4.7.1.2.3. Hail > 3/4 inch in diameter.
           4.7.1.2.4. Lightning Strikes (only when resulting in injury/damage).
           4.7.1.2.5. Heavy Snowfall/Snowstorms
           4.7.1.2.6. Aircraft evacuation due to typhoon/flood/natural disaster.
           4.7.1.2.7. Installation Commander-directed change to HURCON (i.e. deviation
           from NHC/26 OWS guidance).
           4.7.1.2.8. Any airborne instances of lightning strikes, electro-static discharge,
           hail damage or other weather related events resulting in Class A, B, and C aircraft
           damage, aircrew injury or flight control problems.
       4.7.1.3. The WF and OWS will collaborate to provide the required weather data for
       the OPREP-3 message to the 4 FW/CP which includes: name and location of unit
       submitting report, type of occurrence (Beeline, Homeline, etc.), date/time/location of
       incident, actual severe weather conditions experienced, and known resulting damage,
       forecast at the time of the occurrence to include any watches or warnings issued, and
       operational status of meteorological and communication equipment (e.g., radar, wind
       sensors, etc.) at the time of the event.
       4.7.1.4. The WF and 26 OWS will conduct a verbal review of the actions taken by
       both the WF and OWS. This review will be held via telephone after the event with the
       senior WF technician on scene and the applicable OWS regional supervisor if weather
       and duty priorities permit. Any useful data should be saved for a formal forecast
       review.
20                               SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


        4.7.1.5. All weather information transmitted to 4 FW/CP for a severe weather
        OPREP-3.
        4.7.1.6. ORM will be applied to all SWAT and Force Protection operations.
  4.8. Backup Operations and the Alternate Operating Location (AOL).
     4.8.1. Weather Station Evacuation. Should the weather station become unusable, the
     ranking individual on duty will assume command of the relocation of weather personnel,
     will ensure that classified information/materials are secured, evacuated, or destroyed
     IAW AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, and ensure all on-duty
     WF personnel evacuate to the AOL in Building 4750 (RAPCON Facility). If necessary,
     squadron briefer(s) will evacuate to the 333 FS, 334 FS, 335 FS, or 336 FS buildings.
     The lead weather technician will inform the 26 OWS, Air Traffic Control (ATC), 4
     FW/CP, 916 ARW/CP, all squadron briefer(s), and the SOF that the AOL is now in use.
     The lead weather technician will take and disseminate a weather observation within 15
     minutes of arrival at AOL (if AN/FMQ-19/JET are inop), and then begin “eyes forward”
     ops. WF personnel will continue to perform the MEF Process, MISSIONWATCH,
     resource protection, SWAP and all other garrison support requirements from the AOL
     with established limitations (Section 1.4), operations will follow conduct described in
     Chapters 3 and 4.
     4.8.2. Backup Dissemination of Weather Products. While operating from the AOL, WF
     personnel will disseminate observations and observed weather advisories via JET and
     telephone as described in paragraph 2.10. If both JET and telephone service are lost, WF
     personnel must coordinate with Tower personnel to borrow an LMR to ensure
     dissemination from the AOL. On-duty weather personnel will continue to coordinate
     weather support for 4 FW agencies as long as communications with 4 FW agencies can
     be maintained.
     4.8.3. Weather Support Responsibilities in Backup Operations. The WF will continue to
     provide tailored weather support to 4 FW agencies as outlined in this plan, AFMAN 15-
     111 and AFMAN 15-129. The OWS will continue to provide weather support to the WF
     as outlined in this plan and according to the most current MOA between 26 OWS and 4
     OSS. In the event WF personnel are no longer able to provide support to 4 FW agencies,
     the OWS will assume all weather support responsibilities as documented in AFMAN 15-
     129, Table 1.1, Chapters 3 and 4 of this document, and in the most current MOA between
     26 OWS and 4 OSS. The WF will assume responsibility for providing all weather support
     for SJAFB in the event that 26 OWS operations are impaired due to lost communications,
     system failure, evacuation or any termination of service at Barksdale AFB, IAW current
     26 OWS - 4 OSS/OSW MOA.
     4.8.4. AOL Equipment and Capabilities. The AOL has network and JET connectivity
     which provides the bulk of the weather data necessary for operations support. To help
     expedite the seamless transfer of weather information to 4 FW agencies, the AOL is also
     equipped to receive calls from the same telephone numbers as the base weather station. If
     primary weather data networks fail, weather personnel will utilize secondary and tertiary
     methods to measure, format and disseminate weather data to ensure operations support
     continues. The Kestrel 4500 NV is the primary backup piece of weather equipment to the
     AN/FMQ-19. Wind and pressure values obtained from backup equipment will be
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                         21


     reported as estimated. The official observing is the SW corner of the RAPCON parking
     lot.
     4.8.5. AOL Limitations. There is no PMSV radio to monitor/respond to PMSV calls
     (see paragraph 3.4 for PMSV backup). TAWS software is not loaded onto backup
     computers. Under normal circumstances, observations may still be taken/disseminated
     IAW paragraph 2.10.
5. WEATHER FLIGHT OPERATIONS – RESPONSIBILITIES
  5.1. Supported Unit Weather Requirements. The WF will compile and maintain a
  comprehensive list of all supported unit weather sensitivities (detailed in Attachment 9) that
  would impact mission accomplishment. This includes all flying and non-flying units. The
  WF Commander and/or NCOIC will review and document all changes to these weather
  requirements on an annual basis.
     5.1.1. The WF provides an array of support to 4FW including but not limited to:
         5.1.1.1. Mission Forecasting support (tailored to local flying, aircraft and missions).
         5.1.1.2. Automated 24/7 observing support.
         5.1.1.3. Observed and Forecast Weather Advisories.
         5.1.1.4. Perform METWATCH, MISSIONWATCH, and “eyes forward” roles, as
         applicable.
         5.1.1.5. Briefing support to tenant flying units (tailored to local flying schedule).
         5.1.1.6. Aircraft Accident Investigation. The WF Commander serves as, or can
         arrange for a qualified weather technician to serve as, the weather member on
         investigation boards (when requested by board president).
         5.1.1.7. Briefing support during base exercises (i.e. CAT briefings).
  5.2. Weather Watch and Warning Support. The WF will disseminate all WWAs IAW
  AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, Chapter 11. The
  WWA criteria and weather dissemination matrices for SJAFB are listed in Attachment 6.
  Any agency that needs to be added to the notification checklists should contact 4 FW/CP.
  5.3. Staff Support to the 4 FW: The 4 OSS Staff Weather Element provides commanders,
  staff and operations personnel with weather information for planning daily activities and
  making critical operational decisions. The WF Commander, or designated members of the
  WF, are responsible for the content of briefings and will prepare and present all out-of-
  station briefings. Requests for out-of-station briefings will be considered on a case-by-case
  basis, in accordance with available manning and duty priorities. Out-of-station briefings will
  normally be minimized or cancelled during exercises and contingencies.
     5.3.1. Consultant Services. The Weather Flight Commander is the OPR for staff services
     to the 4 FW. The Weather Flight Commander or designated alternate will provide or
     arrange for all weather support or information required by wing agencies. This includes,
     but is not limited to: climatological, historical and planning weather data or studies, plans
     and annexes pertaining to weather, astronomical and tidal data.
22                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


         5.3.1.1. Daily Stand-Up (DSU)/Wing Status Meeting (WSM). A WF representative
         will provide daily stand up slides each day and post to the SharePoint. DSU occurs on
         Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Fridays with the 4 FW/CC chairing the meeting.
         This briefing is to give the 4 FW/CC weather forecasts for the next week and provide
         him/her planning weather that could potentially affect operations or base personnel.
         WSM is scheduled every Tuesday and is briefed as requested. These briefs contain at
         a minimum a satellite image, most current National Weather Service surface analysis,
         and a 7-day forecast. When assets are off-station and still under 4FW Command,
         include weather at their operating location.
         5.3.1.2. Mobility Concept Briefing. The WF will provide pre-deployment planning
         weather information at all Mobility Concept Briefings. The focus of this briefing will
         be on departure conditions, deployed area conditions and climatology. As a
         minimum, the briefing will include forecast conditions at SJAFB for departure time,
         deployed area       climatological conditions, and forecast conditions for destination
         arrival time, with other topics briefed as required.
     5.3.2. REBOUND ECHO. The WF leadership will coordinate and ensure WF personnel
     are available to support REBOUND ECHO.
     5.3.3. Crisis Action Team (CAT). Upon activation of the Crisis Action Team the flight
     commander or designated alternate will brief weather conditions while working in the
     ICC or designated alternate location. The flight commander or designated alternate will
     keep the ICC Director apprised of significant changes to theater weather.
  5.4. Force Protection/Emergency Actions. Upon request, the Flight Commander or
  designated alternate will provide or arrange for additional briefings or forecast products in
  support of initial and follow-up force and resource protection as required by 4 FW
  leadership, and as duty priorities and ORM allow. Support includes but is not limited to
  natural disasters, crisis action management, and emergency response requests.
  5.5. Weather Support to 4FW Flying Squadrons. WF will provide MEFs, DD Form 175-
  1s, Mission Planning Forecasts, TDAs, and MISSIONWATCH for local flying operations,
  out-and-backs, cross countries, pre-deployment briefings, and any non-Air Operations Center
  directed deployments.
  5.6. Weather Support to 916 ARW. WF will provide DD Form 175-1, Form 181
  briefings, and MISSIONWATCH during normal duty hours Monday-Friday. For weekend
  support, the WF will prepare mission briefs as requested and will maintain METWATCH
  using our SWAP/standby procedures and the automated AN/FMQ-19 output per the
  AFMAN 15-129v2. At any time, based on manning, the WF has the option to direct 916
  ARW aircrew to the 26 OWS for briefings and METWATCH support.
  5.7. Weather Support to 4 FW/CP. The WF will: Provide weather information IAW AFI
  10-229, paragraph 2.8.4 for any severe weather events listed in AFI 10-206. The WF will
  also provide weather information for any other OPREP-3 reports as requested by 4 FW/CP.
  In addition, 4 FW/CP is the primary recipient of WWAs. As such, the WF will ensure timely
  dissemination of all WWAs to 4 FW/CP, per Attachments 5 and 6 of this Instruction.
  5.8. Weather Support to 4 FW Safety Office (4 FW/SE). The WF will directly support
  safety events as follows:
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                        23


     5.8.1. Provide weather briefings and weather data (to include data saves for mishaps) as
     requested. Data saves will be kept at the weather station for 90 days after the mishap.
     5.8.2. Provide at least one officer to serve on accident investigation boards and other
     safety investigation boards, as required.
  5.9. Weather Support to 4th Operations Group (4 OG). The WF will: Reevaluate
  weather conditions whenever reliable sources (i.e., ATC, pilots, local law enforcement, etc.)
  report weather conditions different from the last disseminated observation (e.g., different
  ceiling height, visibility, present weather). If required, weather personnel will either generate
  a SPECI observation or include the differing conditions in the next required observation if
  the conditions alone do not warrant immediate dissemination.
  5.10. Weather Support to the SOF. The WF will:
     5.10.1. Ensure all weather personnel are familiar with weather impacts on the 4 FW
     mission.
     5.10.2. Provide an initial briefing to each SOF, discussing existing and forecasted
     weather at SJAFB, potential alternates, and conditions throughout the local flying area.
     The WF will provide a copy of the mass briefing which includes a copy of the updated
     Airfield MEF and range forecasts, maintain a thorough MISSIONWATCH, and provide
     updates as necessary to the MEF.
     5.10.3. Keep the SOF informed of all current or forecast weather that may impact current
     4 FW flying operations. Items include, but are not limited to: current SJAFB observed or
     forecast weather warning, watches, and advisories, current observations and forecasts for
     local and alternate airfields, current observations and forecasts for ranges, operating areas
     and targets, and pilot weather reports.
     5.10.4. Provide new SOF indoctrination upon request.
  5.11. Weather Support to 4 OSS. The WF will:
     5.11.1. Disseminate all weather observations, forecasts, warnings, advisories, and
     watches to 4 OSS/OSAT, 4 OSS/OSAR and 4 OSS/OSAA via JET or telephone calls to
     ensure notification of all WWAs.
     5.11.2. Maintain a program to provide weather orientation training for ATC personnel
     and certify tower controllers for limited weather observations to include Cooperative
     Weather Watch (CWW), METAR Code, TAF code and visibility determination.
     Administer an exam to controllers to obtain certification for limited weather observations
     and initial tower visibility observation certification. Document this training on the
     controller’s AF Form 3622, Air Traffic Control/Weather Certification and Rating Record.
     Training will be conducted Monday-Friday, upon coordination with WF leadership.
     5.11.3. Upon request, provide instructors for Instrument Refresher Courses (IRC), SOF
     training, etc. Briefing content will contain, at a minimum, basic climatology, weather
     patterns, flying hazards, and WF equipment and services, and other requirements
     identified by 4 OSS/OSO or other requesters. Requesting agency will coordinate support
     NLT 72 hours prior to desired brief date.
24                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


     5.11.4. Assist the Bldg 4507 facility manager (mission priorities permitting) with
     required actions to maintain the facility. Assist with facility security and defense during
     exercises and contingencies. These tasks are typically shared with 4 OSS/OSAA.
     5.11.5. During contingencies and exercises, provide the Mission Planning Cell (MPC)
     chief with a forecast and Electro Optical support for the general target area(s) over the
     expected time over target.
     5.11.6. Provide 4 OSS/OSAA information on changes or updates to the DoD Flight
     Information Publication (FLIP). Updates include, but are not limited to operating hours,
     PMSV frequencies, 26 OWS contact information, airfield ceiling and visibility
     thresholds, and pertinent observing information, such as use of automated equipment and
     limitations hindering unobstructed visibility observations. The WF will validate the
     accuracy of the information each time the FLIP is published and notify the FLIP manager
     (4OSS/OSAM)            within 5 duty days to change incorrect data.
  5.12. Weather Support to 4th Civil Engineer Squadron (4 CES). The WF will:
     5.12.1. Provide CDM, EDM, and BWM support to 4 CES/CEX during exercise and real-
     world response operations, to include major accidents, mishaps, natural disasters,
     hazardous materials incidents and terrorist use of weapons of mass destruction IAW 4
     FW Installation Emergency Management Plan (4 FW IEMP 10-2) or as requested.
     Messages will be updated every six hours and amended as required. Upon request, the
     WF will provide current surface observation information to 4 CES to support the
     previously listed operations.
     5.12.2. Relay weather advisories, watches, and warnings to the 4 FW/CP and 4
     OSS/OSAA for dissemination to 4 CES.
     5.12.3. Provide weather forecasts to the 4 CES upon request.
     5.12.4. Upon request, provide a monthly SJAFB climatology report to 4 CES Operations
     Flight within one week of the end of the month. This report will consist of:
        5.12.4.1. Daily maximum, minimum, mean, and 15-day mean ambient and dew point
        temperatures.
        5.12.4.2. Monthly total and daily heating and cooling degree-days.
        5.12.4.3. Total monthly precipitation.
        5.12.4.4. Total monthly snowfall.
        5.12.4.5. Monthly extreme maximum and minimum temperatures with dates
        occurred.
        5.12.4.6. Monthly maximum wind (direction and speed) with date occurred.
        5.12.4.7. Daily prevailing and peak winds (direction and speed).
        5.12.4.8. Daily accumulated snow depth (if any).
     5.12.5. Submit work orders to survey local visibility markers, as necessary.
  5.13. Coordination with the 4th Communications Squadron (4 CS). The WF will:
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                        25


     5.13.1. Promptly inform the appropriate 4 CS sections of the exact nature of any systems
     problems and the mission impact when the following weather communications or
     meteorological equipment are not operational or operate below standards to the following
     equipment/areas:
        5.13.1.1. AN/FMQ-19 automatic meteorological station. Any outage is deemed
        mission critical.
        5.13.1.2. JET network connectivity.
        5.13.1.3. Base Internet service (http, ftp, ppp, and other functions used by the WF).
        5.13.1.4. PMSV. Any outage is deemed mission critical.
  5.14. Weather Support for Force Protection to 4th Security Forces Squadron (4
  SFS). The WF will:
     5.14.1. Provide wind speed/direction as requested to aid in the establishment of effective
     cordons.
     5.14.2. Provide current weather observations, WWAs via JET.
     5.14.3. Relay weather WWAs to 4 OSS/OSAA for dissemination to 4 SFS/Emergency
     Control Center (ECC) at DSN 722-1203.
     5.14.4. Provide solar and lunar data, wave heights, tidal data, and other weather-related
     information required for 4 SFS operations upon request.
  5.15. Weather Support to 4th Logistics Readiness Squadron (4 LRS). The WF will:
     5.15.1. Provide a weather update at the mobility concept brief consisting of a five-day
     forecast for SJAFB and 24-hour forecast for other locations as requested.
  5.16. Weather Support to 4th Medical Group (4 MDG). The WF will:
     5.16.1. Provide weather inputs such as wind, temperature, and dew point for inclusion in
     Heat Stress, Fighter Index of Thermal Stress, Wind Chill, and other calculations as
     requested.
  5.17. Weather Support to 26 OWS. The WF will:
     5.17.1. Perform an “eyes forward” function for OWS forecasters to notify them of
     changing weather conditions. The WF duty forecaster will notify the OWS of observed
     changes in weather conditions as they are observed.
     5.17.2. Coordinate with the OWS on forecast WWAs and TAFs issued by the OWS.
     During duty hours, the WF will also provide verification information for all issued
     forecast weather WWAs as requested by 26 OWS.
     5.17.3. Provide forecast input to the OWS during daily meteorological discussions and
     when rapidly changing weather conditions are occurring or are forecast to occur at
     SJAFB. Inputs will highlight trends to expected weather conditions that will cross either
     specification or amendment criteria listed in Attachment 4.
     5.17.4. Provide Backup Support. If an evacuation of or interruption to service at the
     OWS is required, the WF will assume all forecast services for SJAFB including TAF and
     forecast weather WWAs, IAW existing criteria listed in this plan and attachments, until
 26                                 SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


       operations are reestablished at the OWS. During these instances, the WF will also
       provide local transient aircrew weather support until the OWS can resume support
       operations.
       5.17.5. Provide information to the OWS on all forecast deviations from the centrally
       produced products as soon as it is operationally possible.
       5.17.6. Coordinate with 26 OWS when weather related OPREP-3 reports are
       required/generated.
       5.17.7. Provide other support as required by the most current MOA between 26 OWS
       and 4 OSS.
   5.18. Weather Support to 4 FW Historian (4 FW/HO). Upon request, the WF will
   provide a quarterly weather summary, including significant weather, events, exercise support,
   manning, records, etc. This information is provided IAW AFI 84-101, paragraph 3.1.6.11.
   5.19. Weather Support via computer/web-based briefing applications. Aircrews may
   request/schedule weather briefings, and include contact information for clarification and
   follow- up.
       5.19.1. MEFs are disseminated verbally in the form of crew briefs (in-person or via
       secure phone). MWPs are also posted on the 4 OSS/ OSW SharePoint page:
       https://seymourjohnson.eim.acc.af.mil/4th_fw/Operations/oss/OSW/default.aspx
       5.19.2. 4 OSS/OSW forecasters will complete flight weather mission execution forecasts
               (175-1) for all 4 FW aircrews, operating from SJAFB, and for transient aircrews
       operating from SJAFB as duty priorities permit. Under no circumstances will a 4
       OSS/OSW forecaster deny assistance to aircrews seeking a FWB. If duty priorities do
       not allow the completion of a 175-1 for transient aircrews in a timely manner (30
       minutes), politely refer the aircrew to the 26 OWS for support.
           5.19.2.1. Contact the 26 OWS at DSN 331-2651/2652. Or visit their website at:
           https://ows.barksdale.af.mil/. All other OWS’s can be accessed from this site as
           well.
6. RECIPROCAL SUPPORT
   6.1. 4 FW will:
       6.1.1. Chair a review of installation severe weather preparedness, capabilities,
       requirements, and procedures, no less than annually IAW AFI 10-229. The 4 FW staff
       will notify the WF of all requirements for, or changes to, WSM, DSU briefings, and other
       meetings requiring WF support.
       6.1.2. Provide earliest possible notification of requirements for Installation Control
       Center
(ICC) briefings associated with exercises/contingencies.
   6.2. 4 FW/CP will:
       6.2.1. Disseminate weather WWAs according to Attachments 5 and 6.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                    27


     6.2.2. Relay severe weather phenomena such as: hurricane and tropical storm tracks to
     the 4 FW/CC, 4 FW ICC Director, 4 CES/Emergency Management Flight, and 4 FW
     Public Affairs.
     6.2.3. Monitor the JET for weather updates. Report all JET outages or restoration of
     services to the WF.
     6.2.4. Notify the WF any time significant weather occurs and results in damage that
     impacts or impedes operations. Produce an OPREP-3 message containing the WF-
     provided weather information IAW AFI 10-206.
     6.2.5. Notify the WF and request relevant weather information prior to submitting
     OPREP-3 reports for losses of: aircraft, missile, or satellite events, or communications
     instructions reporting vital intelligence sightings IAW AFI 10-206.
     6.2.6. If space weather (high frequency radio fade, geomagnetic storming, etc.) is the
     suspected or confirmed cause of any electromagnetic spectrum frequency interference,
     contact the WF IAW AFI 10-707, Spectrum Interference Resolution Program, paragraph
     3.6.7.3 and report the pertinent details of the interference. The WF is required to submit
     any known space weather impacts to AFWA.
     6.2.7. Notify forecaster of all requirements for briefings in the Command Post
     6.2.8. Notify WF of communication outages. When communication lines are not
     operational, weather information will be disseminated via telephone or other suitable
     means.
  6.3. 4 FW/SE will:
     6.3.1. Notify the WF as soon as possible when any mishap occurs requiring a weather
     data save. Notification should not exceed five hours. Failure to notify the WF within five
     hours will severely limit the weather data available for any subsequent investigation or
     actions.
     6.3.2. Notify the WF of any damage on SJAFB caused by weather.
     6.3.3. Coordinate with the WF on all messages containing references to weather.
     6.3.4. Notify the WF when a weather representative is required for membership on an
     accident investigation board or other safety investigation board.
  6.4. The Duty SOF will:
     6.4.1. IAW AFI 11-418, receive a face-to-face weather briefing before assuming SOF
     duties, which should include identification of current alternates and weather concerns.
     6.4.2. As appropriate, pass PIREPs or tower observations to the WF forecaster. These
     reports keep the duty forecaster informed of significant weather or weather changes
     reported by pilots or observed from the tower.
     6.4.3. Advise the forecaster upon completion of 4 FW local flying.
  6.5. 4th Operations Group.
     6.5.1. Establish operational weather support requirements and procedures with the WF.
     6.5.2. Notify the WF of all changes in mission weather support.
 28                                 SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


       6.5.3. Provide the WF with daily, weekly, and monthly flying schedules as available for
       determination of support requirements.
       6.5.4. Upon request, 4 OG/OGV will provide periodic briefings to weather personnel on
       SOF weather requirements/procedures.
   6.6. 4 OSS Responsibilities:
       6.6.1. 4 OSS/OSAA will:
           6.6.1.1. Disseminate weather WWAs via the Secondary Crash Net using their Quick
           Reaction Checklist (QRC).
           6.6.1.2. Notify the duty weather technician of any aircraft mishap/incidents or in-
           flight emergencies at, or in the vicinity of SJAFB and all aircraft mishaps involving
           SJAFB-based aircraft.
           6.6.1.3. Send any/all Notices to Airmen (NOTAMs) as required.
           6.6.1.4. Submit changes in published weather support to appropriate agencies
           (FLIP/ICAO publications).
           6.6.1.5. Provide paper or electronic copies of updated FLIPs and ICAO publications
           to the WF.
           6.6.1.6. Notify WF Commander or Flight Chief of changing airfield minima.
           6.6.1.7. Notify the WF Commander or Flight Chief of outages/repairs to instrument
           approach systems that affect observation SPECI criteria (See Attachment 2).
           6.6.1.8. Notify the duty weather technician of JET outages. When JET is not
           operational,
weather information will be disseminated via telephone, in person, or other suitable means.
           6.6.1.9. Notify duty weather technician of extensions or reductions to airfield
           operating hours.
           6.6.1.10. Inform WF technicians of runway conditions (RCR and RSC), and notify
           the duty weather technician whenever the active runway changes.
           6.6.1.11. Notify the duty weather technician when daily local flying is completed.
           6.6.1.12. Provide transient aircrews with access to the Flight Planning Room.
           6.6.1.13. For long term outages (24-hrs or more in duration) of PMSV, Airfield
           Management will put out a local airfield advisory or a NOTAM.
           6.6.1.14. Upon request (when weather radar is inoperative), report any weather
           echoes observed on radar to the duty forecaster.
       6.6.2. 4 OSS/OSAT/OSAR will:
           6.6.2.1. Verbally disseminate all weather WWAs to the SOF.
           6.6.2.2. Coordinate and maintain visibility checkpoint charts/pictures for the primary
           site.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                      29


        6.6.2.3. Provide space, LAN connection and use of a Class-A telephone in the
        RAPCON facility for forecasters in the event a weather station evacuation is required.
        6.6.2.4. Notify the WF of weather communications equipment outages. When JET is
        not operational, weather information will be disseminated by other suitable means.
        6.6.2.5. Notify the WF of active runway and runway light setting changes when the
        visibility is 1SM or less.
        6.6.2.6. Relay all PIREPs received to the duty forecaster. In addition, solicit PIREPs
        upon request from the duty forecaster (mission priorities permitting).
        6.6.2.7. Receive Limited weather observing training/certification from and perform a
        Cooperative Weather Watch (CWW) IAW AFI 13-204 Vol. 3, Air Traffic Control,
        and FAA Order 7110.65U with weather station personnel. This requires tower
        personnel to report changes in significant weather phenomena (defined in paragraph
        2.13) to weather personnel as soon as possible. Communications can be done via
        telephone or radio.
        6.6.2.8. In the event of an emergency divert after dark, and the airfield lights are off,
        ATC personnel will turn the airfield lights on as far in advance of the divert as
        possible in order to allow the FMQ-19 RVR sensor the maximum amount of time to
        accurately evaluate the RVR conditions.
        6.6.2.9. As duty priorities permit, monitor the PMSV frequency (323.925 MHz).
        Relay all requests for weather information to WF personnel for short-term PMSV
        outages (normally less than one day). Also, conduct PMSV radio checks, when
        requested by the WF when Tower’s UHF multi-channel radio is available, and as
        workload and equipment limitations allow. The WF will make the request to the
        Tower Watch Supervisor/Senior Controller.
        6.6.2.10. Monitor AFAS for weather updates. Report all AFAS outages and problems
        receiving weather data to the WF.
        6.6.2.11. Keep AOL operable for quick establishment as necessary.
     6.6.3. 4 OG/IN will:
        6.6.3.1. Ensure Intelligence personnel obtain Target Area Weather Intelligence
        (TARWI) during exercise or contingency aircrew debriefings and make it readily
        available to the WF.
        6.6.3.2. Relay all weather information to the WF provided by aircrew during mission
        debriefings.
        6.6.3.3. Provide 72 hours notice for verification briefing support.
     6.6.4. 4 OSS/OSK will provide the WF, via secure communications or through squadron
     briefers, information about assigned target areas and routing as soon as they are known.
     6.6.5. 4 OSS/OSO will provide the WF, through the DCBECR office, with contact
     information for use by the 26 OWS and 4 FW/CP for DCBECR support operations and
     relay of applicable WWA information.
  6.7. 4 FW Flying Squadrons will:
 30                                 SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


       6.7.1. Ensure all pilots receive a current flight weather briefing (MEF) prior to takeoff.
       6.7.2. Inform the WF at least 24 hours in advance of any special weather briefing or
       forecast requirements. At a minimum, be prepared to provide the following information:
       takeoff/time-over-target/landing times, route of flight, flight level, alternate/abort bases,
       and refueling tracks if applicable. Additionally, keep the WF informed of any upcoming
       operations for which they will require weather support as soon as possible.
       6.7.3. When hosting deployed aircrews, ensure visiting pilots are briefed on available
       weather services. Contact the WF to arrange any special support required by the visitors.
       6.7.4. Notify the WF of any briefing or mission schedule changes as soon as possible.
       6.7.5. During exercises and contingencies, provide TARWI data as part of the regular
       intelligence debrief.
       6.7.6. Inform and coordinate with the WF any needs or changes to their weather support
       requirements and documents.6.7.7. Provide a work area with a computer, DSN Class-A
       telephone, and network connections to include access to NIPRnet and SIPRnet terminals
       during contingencies or      wartime.
       6.7.7. When weather deviates significantly from briefed forecast and impacts mission
       effectiveness, flight leads will pass on this pertinent information to the squadron briefer
       prior to the mission debrief.
       6.7.8. Ensure all PIREPs during departure, in-flight, and post-flight are relayed to the
forecasters in a timely manner.
       6.7.9. Provide at least two hour notification of Tactical Decision Aid requests via the
       web, fax, phone, or in person.
       6.7.10. Inform the squadron briefers/WF leadership of any diverts or mission
       cancellations due to weather that was unforecasted as soon as possible following the
       event. This information is vital to improving the forecast process and tailored weather
       support.
       6.7.11. Flight Leads will provide post-mission weather feedback after each sortie to the
       on-duty weather technician.
   6.8. 4 TS will: Provide at least 72-hour notice for IRC lectures or seasonal safety
   presentations.
   6.9. 4 CS will:
       6.9.1. Maintain the meteorological and communications equipment listed in paragraph
       5.11.1.
       6.9.2. Ensure Maintenance Control records all WF outage reports.
       6.9.3. Provide routine and emergency maintenance for weather observing and weather-
       related communications located on SJAFB not covered by contractor logistics.
       6.9.4. Provide NIPRNET/SIPRNET support to WF operations.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                  31


     6.9.5. Receive permission from WF, based on weather prioritization for restoring
     inoperative weather sensing equipment, before taking the Automatic Meteorological
     Station (AN/FMQ-19) down for maintenance.
     6.9.6. Respond to an equipment outage if the outage is judged to be significant by the
     weather forecaster. The forecaster will provide a verbal mission impact statement
     notification of outage. The forecaster may defer maintenance for minimal outages during
     non-duty hours if backup equipment is available. Maintenance will only be deferred until
     the beginning of the next duty day.
     6.9.7. Arrange for restoration of weather communications equipment in the following
     priority:
         6.9.7.1. PMSV
         6.9.7.2. Telephone lines or equipment.
         6.9.7.3. Network and internet connectivity and provide 24-hour notice of any
         downtime or interruption to service.
     6.9.8. Provide patches/upgrades to JET when applicable and provide 24-hour support for
     JET IAW MOA between 24 AF and AF Director of Weather dated 26 October 2009.
  6.10. DCBECR. Relay all weather information provided by aircrew (PIREPS) to the WF as
  soon as possible.
  6.11. Maintenance Operations Center.
     6.11.1. Notify duty forecaster of any weather-dependent maintenance activities requiring
     weather support.
     6.11.2. Establish procedures to ensure affected maintenance activities are promptly
     notified of all applicable WWAs.
  6.12. 4 SFS will: Monitor the JET system for weather updates. Report all JET outages,
  restoration        of service and equipment problems to the WF. Notify command post upon
  observation of significant weather/provide CWW.
  6.13. 4 CES will:
     6.13.1. Provide emergency backup power to the weather station’s equipment at building
     4507, 1980 Jabara Ave.
     6.13.2. Notify WF in advance of aerial spray operations missions.
     6.13.3. Provide maintenance and refueling of generator for the building and notify WF
     prior to planned switches from commercial power to backup power and back to
     commercial power, which will affect weather equipment at building 4507.
  6.14. 4 FSS will:
     6.14.1. Alert personnel participating in outdoor recreational activities (i.e., the golf
     course, base pool, etc.) when weather conditions require caution.
     6.14.2. Coordinate with WF on all support requirements and issues regarding the Fort
     Fisher recreation area.
32                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


     6.14.3. Provide the WF with contact information for use by the 26 OWS and the
     Command Post for Fort Fisher Recreation Area support operations and relay applicable
     WWA information.
  6.15. 916 ARW will:
     6.15.1. Notify WF of all changes in mission weather support and daily flying schedule.
     6.15.2. Obtain an in-person or faxed weather briefing for all missions.
     6.15.3. Provide feedback on MEFs to WF. Use hard-copy feedback forms or verbally
     give feedback directly to the forecasters.
  6.16. 4th Medical Group will:
     6.16.1. Utilize Bioenvironmental Engineering to request weather data from the WF as
     required to model toxic corridors during emergency response activities, update heat
     indices during summer months and wind chill during winter months.




                                          JEANNIE M. LEAVITT, Col, USAF
                                          Commander, 4th Fighter Wing
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                 33


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 15-1, Air Force Weather Operations, 19 Feb 2010
AFI 10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Elements, 15 Oct 2003
AFI 15-128, Air and Space Weather Operations - Roles and Responsibilities, 07 Feb 2011
AFMAN 15-111, Surface Weather Observations, 27 Feb 2013
AFMAN 15-124, Meteorological Codes, 28 Feb 2013
AFMAN 15-129 V1&V2 ACC Sup, Air & Space Weather Operations, 06 Dec 2011 & 06 Aug
2013
SJAFB CEMP 10-2, Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan, 14 Dec 2012
FCM-P12-2003, National Hurricane Operations Plan, 2003
Prescribed Forms:
4 FW Form 181, 4 OSS Mission Weather Briefing
Adopted Forms:
AF FORM 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF FORM 3622, Air Traffic Control/Weather Certification and Rating Record
DD 175-1, Flight Weather Briefing

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFAS—Air Force Automated System
AFWA—Air Force Weather Agency
AGL—Above Ground Level
AIREP—Air Report
ALT—Actual Lead Time
ALSTG—Altimeter Setting
AMD—Amendment
AMOS—Automated Meteorological Observing System
AOL—Alternate Operating Location
AOR—Area of Responsibility
AR—Air Refueling
AS—Airfield Services
ATC—Air Traffic Control
 34                               SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


BKN—Broken
BWM—Basic Wind Message
BWW—Basic Weather Watch
CDM—Chemical Downwind Message
CEM—Combined Effects Munitions
CFLOS—Cloud-Free-Line-Of-Sight
CU—Characterization Unit
CWW—Cooperative Weather Watch
DCBECR—Dare County Bombing and Electronic Combat Range
DSU—Daily Standup
DLT—Desired Lead Time
EDM—Effective Downwind Message
ELS—Emergency Landing Surface
EM—Emergency Management
EU—Exploitation Unit
EWO—Emergency War Order
ET—Eastern Time
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FC—Funnel Cloud
FITS—Fighter Index of Thermal Stress
FLIP—Flight Information Publication
FW—Fighter Wing
FWB—Flight Weather Brief
GPS—Global Positioning System
HUREVAC—Hurricane Evacuation
ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization
ICC—Installation Control Center
IWWC—Integrated Weather Warning Capability
IRC—Instrument Refresher Course
JET—Joint Environmental Toolkit
KT—Knot
LAN—Local Area Network
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013              35


LMR—Land Mobile Radio
MEF—Mission Execution Forecast
MEF—P—Mission Execution Forecast Process
METAR—Aviation Routine Weather Report
METCON—Meteorological Conference or Discussion
METWATCH—Meteorological Watch
MISSIONWATCH—Mission Meteorological Watch
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement/Military Operating Area
MW—Mission Weather
MWP—Mission Weather Product
NHC—National Hurricane Center
NLT—No Later Than
NOTAM—Notice to Airmen
NSW—No Significant Weather
NWS—National Weather Service
OPVER—Operational Verification
ORM—Operational Risk Management
OVC—Overcast
OWS—Operational Weather Squadron
PIREP—Pilot Weather Report
PMSV—Pilot-to-Metro Service
QRC—Quick Reaction Checklist
RAPCON—Radar Approach Control
RCR—Runway Condition Reading
RSC—Runway Surface Condition
RVR—Runway Visual Range
SCT—Scattered
SOF—Supervisor of Flying
SPECI—Aviation Selected Special Weather Report
SWAP—Severe Weather Action Procedures
SWAT—Severe Weather Action Team
TAF—Terminal Aerodrome Forecast
 36                                 SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


TC—TAP—Tropical Cyclone Threat Assessment Product
TDA—Tactical Decision Aid
TEMPO—Temporary Conditions
VFR—Visual Flight Rules
WF—Weather Flight
WSM—Wing Status Meeting
WSR—88D – NEXRAD (Next Generation Doppler Radar)
WW—Weather Warning
WWA—Watch, Warning, Advisory

Terms
Aircraft Mishap—Term used to denote any event resulting in damage to, or destruction of any
aircraft to include lightning strikes, inadvertent departure from the paved runway or taxiway
surface, aircraft or Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) fires, and forced landings due to in-
flight emergencies.
Airfield Services Element—This element of weather support expands the traditional observing
function at the airfield by infusing the elements of the meteorological watch and resource
protection roles. The Airfield Services Element will function as the “eyes forward” for the
servicing OWS and in many cases will serve as the primary point of contact for the collaborative
forecast effort to include resource protection for an installation. The Airfield Services Element
also interfaces with the Supervisor of Flying, and provides over-the-counter transient mission
briefings during the 4 FW flying window.
Air Force Weather Agency (AFWA)—AFWA is a field-operating agency responsible for all
meteorological services for the Air Force. It includes a strategic weather center at Offutt AFB
NE, providing strategic atmospheric data and strategic analysis/forecast products required by the
regional OWS’s and the WFs worldwide. AFWA provides the centralized repository for global
observations and forecasts that are data based at AFWA and, in turn, disseminated to DOD
weather data users worldwide. In addition to global observations and forecasts collected from
worldwide sources, AFWA collects meteorological satellite data from multiple sources. Based
on global analysis of available data, AFWA creates global analysis and forecast products to meet
the strategic forecast requirements of its supported units.
Air Report (AIREP)—A pilot report made over areas where weather information is limited or
nonexistent (e.g., over an ocean).
Actual Lead Time (ALT):—The elapsed time between the issuance of a warning or watch and
the time of the first event occurrence.
Amendment (AMD)—Used as a message modifier when transmitting an aerodrome forecast
amendment.
Cloud Ceiling—Height of the base of a cloud deck that covers at least 5/8 of the sky.
Climatology— The historical records of weather conditions measured or observed at a specific
location is known as climatology. Climatology is useful in planning operations beyond 5 to 7
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                      37


days. It usually describes the average (or mean) conditions such as high and low temperatures
and extremes.
Desired Lead—time—The amount of advance notice a supported agency desires before the
onset of a particular weather phenomenon.
Eyes Forward—Weather Flight forecasters are the eyes forward for the technicians in the
Operational Weather Squadron (OWS) and integrate weather radar data, meteorological satellite
imagery, lightning detection readouts, and non-standard weather data systems (vertical profilers,
PIREPs, etc.) to create an integrated weather picture and near-term trend forecasts for the OWS.
Forecast Weather Advisory—A weather advisory issued when the customer requires advance
notification of an impending weather condition with sufficient time to allow for protective
actions.
Joint Environmental Toolkit (JET)—The computer system and associated software and
interfaces that provide an automated weather support and communications capability to the
Weather Flight.
Issue Time—The time when an agency is notified of a watch, warning, or advisory. When more
than one agency is notified, the issue time is the time the last agency is notified. Follow-up
notifications are not considered when determining issue time.
METAR Observation—Meteorological Aviation Report. A routine scheduled surface weather
observation. It contains a report of wind, visibility, runway visual range, present weather, sky
condition, temperature, dew point, and altimeter setting. In addition, significant remarks are
appended to the METAR observation.
METWATCH—Monitoring aerospace weather for a route, area, or terminal and advising
concerned organizations when phenomena that could affect their operations or pose a hazard to
life or property are occurring or about to occur.
Mission Execution Forecast (MEF)—A customized weather product providing terrestrial and
space weather data and forecasts for a specific mission, or set of missions. It fully integrates
aerospace weather with the customer’s tactics, weapon systems, environmental sensitivities of
equipment, and other operational requirements.
MISSIONWATCH—The monitoring of aerospace weather for a specific mission (i.e., ground,
air, or space) and informing supported agencies when unforecast mission-limiting phenomena
could impact operations.
Observed Weather Advisory—A weather advisory issued when a particular weather event first
occurs and the customer does not require advanced notification of the observed weather
phenomena.
Operational Weather Squadron (OWS)—An organization comprised of management,
technician, and training personnel responsible for providing regional weather support. Their
mission is to produce theater-scale tailored weather forecast products and services to customers
within their area of responsibility.
Pilot Report (PIREP)—A report of in-flight weather provided by an aircrew member.
 38                                  SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


SPECI Observation—An unscheduled observation taken when significant changes in weather
elements meet special criteria. All SPECIs shall be made as soon as possible after the relevant
criteria are observed.

Terminal Aerodrome Forecast (TAF)—A weather forecast prepared by the 26th Operational
Weather Squadron (OWS) composed of required weather elements for Seymour Johnson AFB
airfield and covers a 24-hour period. Forecast elements in the area between 5 NM and 10 NM
of the aerodrome complex are referred to as in the vicinity (VC) (e.g., VCTS). Operationally
significant elements outside this area are included in remarks (e.g., TS OMTNS).
Weather Advisory—A special notice provided to a supported agency when an established
weather condition that could affect its operation is occurring or is expected to occur.
Weather Flight (WF)—A military weather organization providing direct operational support at
the tactical level.
Weather Warning—A special notice provided to a supported agency when an established
weather condition of such intensity as to affect operations, pose a hazard to life or property, and
requires protective action, is occurring or is expected to occur.
Weather Watch—A special notice provided to supported customers that alerts them of a
potential for weather conditions of such intensity as to pose a hazard to life or property for which
the customer must take protective action.
Contact Information:—4 OSS/OSW Weather Forecaster (Bldg 4507): 722-4087/4089
4 OSS/OSW Commander: 722—4535
4 OSS/OSW Superintendent: 722—4537
4 OSS/OSW Wing Weather Officer: 722—4539
4 OSS/OSW Airfield Services NCOIC: 722—4539
4 OSS/OSW Mission Weather NCOIC: 722—4087
333 FS Weather Briefer: 722—3490
334 FS Weather Briefer: 722—4529
335 FS Weather Briefer: 722—0674
336 FS Weather Briefer: 722—1804
4 OSS/ OSW Alternate Operating Location (Bldg 4750 ): 722—4186
26 OWS SJAFB Forecaster: 331—2639
26 OWS Briefing Cell: 331—2651/2652
SJAFB SOF: 722—4176
4 OSS/OSAT Air Traffic Control: 722—4173
4 OSS/OSAA Airfield Operations: 722—4097
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                    39


                                        Attachment 2
                          SPECIAL OBSERVATION CRITERIA

A2.1. The WF will issue a SPECI for the following conditions:
   A2.1.1. Visibility: Prevailing visibility is observed to decrease to less than, or if below,
   increase to equal or exceed the following values:

Table A2.1. SPECI Visibility Criteria
Visibility     Requirement
3 SM           AFMAN 15-111
2 ¼ SM         DoD FLIP
2 SM           AFMAN 15-111, DoD FLIP
1 ¾ SM         DoD FLIP *Required when Airfield Lightning System is inoperative
1 ½ SM         DoD FLIP
1 ¼ SM         DoD FLIP
1 SM           AFMAN 15-111, DoD FLIP
¾ SM           DoD FLIP
½ SM           DoD FLIP
   A2.1.2. Runway Visual Range (RVR):
       A2.1.2.1. Prevailing visibility is first observed ≤ 1SM and again when the prevailing
       visibility goes above 1SM, regardless of the RVR value.
       A2.1.2.2. The highest value during the preceding 10 minutes from the designated RVR
       runway decreases to less than, or if below, increases to equal or exceed:

Table A2.2. SPECI Runway Visual Range Criteria
RVR Criteria   Requirement
6,000 FT       AFMAN 15-111
5,000 FT       AFMAN 15-111
4,000 FT       DoD FLIP
2,400 FT       AFMAN 15-111
2,000 FT       AFMAN 15-111
1,600 FT       DoD FLIP
       A2.1.2.3. When RVR is first determined as unavailable (RVRNO) for the runway in use,
       and when it is first determined that the RVRNO report is no longer applicable, provided
       conditions for reporting RVR exist.
   A2.1.3. Sky Condition
       A2.1.3.1. A layer of clouds or obscuring phenomenon aloft is observed below 700 feet
       and no layer aloft was reported below this height in the previous METAR or SPECI
       observation.
       A2.1.3.2. A ceiling forms or dissipates below, decreases to less than, or if below,
       increases to equal or exceed:
 40                                    SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


Table A2.3. SPECI Ceiling Criteria
Ceiling               Requirement
3,000 feet            AFMAN 15-111
2,300 feet            4 FW F15E In-Flight Guide
2,000 feet            AFI 11-202v3
1,500 feet            AFMAN 15-111
1,000 feet            AFMAN 15-111
800 feet              AFMAN 15-111
700 feet              AFMAN 15-111, DoD FLIP
500 feet              AFMAN 15-111, DoD FLIP
400 feet              DoD FLIP
300 feet              AFMAN 15-111
200 feet              DoD FLIP
   A2.1.4. Winds
       A2.1.4.1. Wind Shift: The wind direction changes by 45 degrees or more in less than 15
       minutes and the wind speed is ten knots or more throughout the wind shift.
       A2.1.4.2. Squall: Strong wind characterized by a sudden onset in which the wind speed
       increases at least 16 knots and is sustained at 22 knots or more for at least one minute.
   A2.1.5. Volcanic Ash: A SPECI will be taken any time a volcanic eruption or a volcanic ash
   cloud is first observed. VA is always encoded in the body of the report, regardless of the
   visibility, and no remarks are required. No intensity is assigned to volcanic ash.
   A2.1.6. Thunderstorms
       A2.1.6.1. A thunderstorm is considered to have begun and to be occurring “at the
       station” when:
             A2.1.6.1.1. Thunder is first heard.
             A2.1.6.1.2. Hail is falling or lightning is observed at or near the airfield and the local
             noise level is such that resulting thunder cannot be heard.
             A2.1.6.1.3. Lightning detection equipment indicates lightning strikes within 5NM of
             the airfield.
             A2.1.6.1.4. VCTS will not be reported if thunder is heard and the location of the
             storm cannot be determined (e.g., no radar or lighting detector). Instead, if thunder is
             heard and the location is unknown, the thunderstorm will be reported as occurring “at
             the station.”
       A2.1.6.2. A thunderstorm ends 15 minutes after last occurrence of the above criteria.
NOTE: A special observation is not required to report the beginning of a new thunderstorm if
one is currently reported.
   A2.1.7. Precipitation
       A2.1.7.1. Hail begins or ends.
       A2.1.7.2. Freezing precipitation begins, ends or changes intensity.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                             41


       A2.1.7.3. Any other type of precipitation begins or ends (i.e., rain, drizzle, snow, etc.).
NOTE: Except for freezing rain, freezing drizzle, and hail, a SPECI is not required for changes
in type (e.g., drizzle changing to snow grains) or the beginning or ending of one type while
another is in progress (e.g., snow changing to rain and snow).
   A2.1.8. Tornado, Funnel Cloud or Waterspout
       A2.1.8.1. Is observed
       A2.1.8.2. Disappears from sight or ends
   A2.1.9. Upon Resumption of the Official Observing Function (if augmenting the
   AN/FMQ-19)
       A2.1.9.1. Disseminate a special observation within 15 minutes after returning to duty
       following a break in observing coverage or augmentation unless a METAR is filed during
       that 15-minute period. If the AN/FMQ-19 was operational, transmitting and
       representative during the period, no SPECI is required.
       A2.1.9.2. Within 15 minutes of establishing operations in the alternate operating
       location.
   A2.1.10. Aircraft Mishap: Perform only during augmentation procedures. During
   augmentation, take an aircraft mishap SPECI immediately following notification or sighting
   of an aircraft mishap at or near the observing location unless there has been an intervening
   observation.
   A2.1.11. Miscellaneous: Any other meteorological situation which the Weather Technician
   deems critical to the safety of aircraft operations.
 42                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 3
                       LOCAL OBSERVATION REQUIREMENTS

A3.1. A LOCAL is an unscheduled observation, reported to the nearest minute, not meeting
SPECI criteria. All LOCAL altimeter setting reports will be prepared and disseminated as soon
as possible after the relevant altimeter setting change is observed. Only take a single element
LOCAL during backup operations of the AMOS pressure sensor. For LOCALs taken in support
of aircraft operations, the code form will be METAR. A METAR or SPECI taken within the
established time interval will meet this requirement.
   A3.1.1. Altimeter setting (ALSTG): LOCAL altimeter setting observations are taken at an
   interval not to exceed 35 minutes when there has been a change of 0.01 in/Hg or more since
   the last ALSTG value.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                        43


                                         Attachment 4
                 TAF SPECIFICATION AND AMENDMENT CRITERIA

A4.1. General. IAW the 26 OWS – 4 OSS MOA, the TAF will specify the time of occurrence
to the nearest hour, the duration, and intensity (where applicable) when one or more of the
following elements are expected to occur within the valid period of the forecast. For TAF
purposes, “Seymour Johnson AFB” encompasses the area within 5 NM of the airfield. The term
“vicinity” refers to the area between 5 and 10 NM from the Seymour Johnson AFB runway
center point.
   A4.1.1. Specification Criteria. 26 OWS will issue the TAF using the criteria listed in Table
   A4.1. and A4.2.

Table A4.1. SJAFB Terminal Aerodrome Forecast Specification Criteria
Terminal Aerodrome Forecast Specification/Amendment Criteria
(* items with an asterisk are non-standard)
Forecast Element/Occurrence      TAF Specification/Amendment Criteria


                                 Wind Speed: The difference between the predominant wind
                                 speed and the forecast wind speed is > 10 knots

                                 Wind Gusts: The difference between the observed gusts is > 10
Surface Wind
                                 knots from the forecast gust.

                                 Wind Direction: A change > 30 degrees when the predominant
                                 wind speed or gusts are expected to be over 15 knots.

                                 Unforecast freezing precipitation begins or ends.

                                 The beginning or ending of precipitation causing a local
                                 weather warning or weather advisory that can be specified in
Precipitation
                                 the TAF to be issued, cancelled, or amended.

                                 Weather operator considers the occurrence or nonoccurrence
                                 of precipitation to be operationally significant.
Icing, not associated with      The beginning or ending of icing first meets, exceeds, or
thunderstorms, from the surface decreases below moderate or greater thresholds and was not
to 10,000 ft AGL                specified in the forecast.

Turbulence (for Cat II aircraft),
                                  The beginning or ending of turbulence first meets, exceeds, or
not associated with
                                  decreases below moderate or greater thresholds and was not
thunderstorms, from the surface
                                  specified in the forecast.
to 10,000 ft AGL
 44                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


                                 Occur, or are expected to occur, during the forecast period, but
                                 were not specified in the forecast.
Weather Warning Criteria         Specified in the forecast but are no longer occurring or
                                 expected to occur during the forecast period.

Thunderstorms                    Incorrect forecast start or end time.
                                 Forecast conditions specified as temporary become
                                 predominant conditions.

Specification of Temporary       Forecast conditions specified as temporary do not occur during
(TEMPO) conditions               the cardinal hour as forecast.

                                 Forecast conditions specified as temporary are no longer
                                 expected to occur.
                                 Forecast change conditions occur before the beginning of the
                                 specified period of change and are expected to persist.
Changes to Predominant
Conditions                       Forecast change conditions do not occur within 30 minutes
(BECMG or FM group)              after the specified time.

                                 Forecast change conditions are no longer expected to occur.
                                 Forecast conditions are considered unrepresentative of existing
                                 or forecast conditions and amending the forecast improves
Representative Conditions
                                 safety, flight planning, operations efficiency, or assistance to
                                 in-flight aircraft.

Table A4.2. SJAFB Terminal Aerodrome Forecast Specification Criteria
Terminal Aerodrome Forecast Specification/Amendment Criteria
Forecast Element/Occurrence SJAFB Specification/Amendment Criteria
                               CAT E     GTE 2000ft
                               CAT D LT 2000ft but GTE1000ft
Ceiling observed or later      CAT C LT1000ft but GTE 700ft
expected to decrease to less   CAT B LT 700ft but GTE 200ft
than, or if below, increase to CAT A 200ft
equal or exceed:


                                  CAT E     GTE 3SM
Prevailing visibility observed
                                  CAT D LT 3 SM but GTE 2SM
or later expected to decrease
                                  CAT C LT 3SM but GTE 2 SM
to less than, or if below,
                                  CAT B LT 2SM but GTE ½ SM
increase to equal or exceed:
                                  CAT A LT ½ SM
NOTE: Table A4.2. Seymour Johnson AFB Terminal Aerodrome Forecast Amendment
Criteria. Ceiling/Visibility Category A is based on the lowest published airfield minimum for
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                       45


SJAFB. Forecast category is determined by the lower ceiling or visibility value. Use surface
visibility to determine forecast category.
A4.2. Amendment Criteria. The elements in the TAF will be amended IAW the guidance in
AFMAN 15-129 Volume 2 and general flight rules stated in AFI 11-203 Vol. 3. 26 OWS will
amend the TAF IAW the lists in Table A4.1 and A4.2.
 46                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 5
             WEATHER WARNING, WATCH, AND ADVISORY CRITERIA

A5.1. Weather Watches/Warnings/Advisories (WWAs) are issued to notify operational
commanders of weather conditions, actual or potential, of such intensity that they pose a hazard
to life, property or operations. Commanders use these notices to make decisions impacting force
protection and installation operations.
A5.2. Determining WWA Agency Dissemination:
   A5.2.1. All forecasted weather watches, forecasted weather warnings (WWs) except the
   lightning WW, and forecasted weather advisories (Was) will be issued by the 26OWS.
   A5.2.2. The lightning WW and all observed Was will be issued by 4 OSS personnel during
   duty hours. When closed, the 26 OWS will be responsible for these notifications.
   A5.2.3. Certified 4 OSS/OSW personnel have the authority to issue and disseminate
   forecasted WWs in the instances where a forecasted WW has not been issued by the 26
   OWS, and threatening weather conditions that could impact the mission or resources are
   imminent, and there is insufficient time to pre-coordinate with the 26th OWS (i.e. tornado
   warning). 4 OSS/OSW personnel will notify the 26 OWS as soon as possible after local
   dissemination to ensure that warning information is entered into the OWS warning tracking
   and verification system and that expanded METWATCH is assumed.
   A5.2.4. Certified 4 OSS/OSW personnel will assume responsibility for all forecast WWAs
   during 26 OWS outages.
Table A5.1. KGSB WWA Criteria. The 26 OWS will issue a forecasted WWA for 5 NM
(unless otherwise noted) of the center of the SJAFB runway (34.20.21N, 77.57.38W) when the
potential for the criteria defined in the table below exists.
Weather Watch                                                 DLT (in minutes)     ISSUED
                                                                                   BY
Tornado***                                                    As potential         OWS
                                                              warrants
Severe Thunderstorm                                           As potential         OWS
(Convective Winds ≥ 50kts or Damaging Hail ≥ ¾in.)***         warrants
Moderate Thunderstorm                                         As potential         OWS
 (Convective Winds ≥ 35kts but < 50kts or Large Hail LT       warrants
¾in)
Damaging Winds (Non-Convective Winds ≥ 50kts)                 As potential         OWS
                                                              warrants
Strong Winds (Non-Convective Winds ≥ 35 but < 49kts)          As potential         OWS
                                                              warrants
Heavy Precipitation (Rain/Snow ≥ 2” in 12 hours)***           As potential         OWS
                                                              warrants
Freezing Precipitation (any intensity)***                     As potential         OWS
                                                              warrants
Lightning within 5 NM                                         30                   OWS
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                              47


Weather Warning                                              DLT (in minutes)   ISSUED
                                                                                BY
Tornado w/in 10NM***                                         15                 OWS
Severe Thunderstorm                                          60                 OWS
(Convective Winds ≥ 50kts or Damaging Hail ≥ ¾in.)***
Moderate Thunderstorm                                        60                 OWS
(Convective Winds ≥ 35kts but < 50kts or Large Hail < ¾in)
Damaging Winds (Non-Convective Winds ≥ 50kts)***             60                 OWS
Strong Winds (Non-Convective Winds ≥ 35kts but < 50kts)      30                 OWS
Heavy Snow (Snow ≥ 2” in 12 hours)***                        120**              OWS
Heavy Rain (Rain ≥ 2” in 12 hours)***                        120**              OWS
Freezing Precipitation (any intensity)***                    90                 OWS
Lightning within 5 NM                                        First Observed     WF**
Weather Advisories                                           DLT (in minutes)   ISSUED
                                                                                BY
Winds 25kts to 35kts                                            30              OWS
Snow (Accumulation ≥ ½” but < 2” in 12 hours)                   120             OWS
Temperature ≤ 20F                                               12 hours        OWS
Lightning within 10NM                                           First Observed  WF**
Ice FOD                                                         First Observed  WF**
Neuse River Flood Conditions (19ft or greater at Arrington      First Observed  WF**
Bridge gauge)
Table A5.2. K2DP (Dare County Range) WWA Criteria. The 26 OWS will issue a forecast
weather watch for within 25 NM of the designated point on Dare County Range (34.55.13N,
75.41.73W) when the potential for the criteria defined in Table A5.2 exists.
Weather Watch                                                   DLT (in minutes)  ISSUED
                                                                                  BY
Tornado                                                         As potential      OWS
                                                                warrants
Severe Thunderstorm                                             As potential      OWS
(Convective ≥ 50kts or Damaging Hail ≥ ¾in.)                    warrants
Moderate Thunderstorm                                           As potential      OWS
 (Convective Winds ≥ 35kts but < 50kts or Large Hail LT         warrants
¾in)
Damaging Winds (Non-Convective Winds ≥ 50kts)                   As potential      OWS
                                                                warrants
Strong Winds (Non-Convective Winds ≥ 35 but < 49kts)            As potential      OWS
                                                                warrants
Weather Warning                                              DLT (in minutes)   ISSUED
                                                                                BY
Tornado w/in 25NM                                            15                 OWS
Severe Thunderstorm (Convective Wind ≥ 50kts or              120                OWS
Damaging Hail ≥ ¾in.)
Moderate Thunderstorm                                        60                 OWS
(Convective Winds ≥ 35kts but < 50kts or Large Hail LT
 48                               SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


¾in)
Damaging Winds (Non-Convective Winds ≥ 50kts)                  90                   OWS
Strong Winds (Non-Convective Winds ≥ 35 but < 49kts)           90                   OWS
Table A5.3. NC15 WWA Criteria. The 26 OWS will issue a WWA for within 10 NM of the
designated point on Fort Fisher Recreational Area (35.57.42N, 80.58.73W) when the potential
for the criteria defined in Table A5.3 exists.
Weather Watch                                                  DLT (in minutes)     ISSUED
                                                                                    BY
Tornado                                                        As potential         OWS
                                                               warrants
Severe Thunderstorm                                            As potential         OWS
(Convective Winds ≥ 50kts or Damaging Hail ≥ ¾in.)             warrants
Damaging Winds (Non-Convective Winds ≥ 50kts)                  As potential         OWS
                                                               warrants
Weather Warning                                                DLT (in minutes)     ISSUED
                                                                                    BY
Tornado                                                        15                   OWS
Severe Thunderstorm (Convective Winds ≥ 50kts or               60                   OWS
Damaging Hail ≥ ¾in.)
Damaging Winds (Non-Convective Winds ≥ 50kts)                  60                   OWS
NOTE: For Tables A5.1, A 5.2, and A5.3: DLT: Desired Lead-Time; * Deviation from standard
AFMAN 15-129 criteria; ** 26 OWS will issue during 4 OSS/OSW non-duty hours; ***
Mandatory SWAP Activation
A5.3. 1. Ice FOD Potential will be issued whenever one of the following criteria is being
observed:
       A5.3.1.1. Temperature is LTE 50F but GTE M04F and dew point depression is LTE 5ºF
       A5.3.1.2. Temperature is LTE 50F but GTE M04F and visibility less than 3SM in BR or
       FG
       A5.3.1.3. Temperature is LTE 50F but GTE M04F and precipitation is occurring or has
       occurred within the past hour
NOTE: The advisory remains in effect as long as water is pooling on the runway and ramps. The
WF must notify the OWS if water is pooling since the 26 OWS has no ability to observe the
runway.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                              49


                                     Attachment 6
 WEATHER WATCH, WARNING & ADVISORY NOTIFICATION DISSEMINATION

A6.1. The following agencies are notified automated Integrated Weather Warning Capability
(IWWC) notification system

Figure A6.1. IWWC/JET Weather Watch, Warning, & Advisory Notification Chain
 50                                                  SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


Table A 6.1. Command Post Dissemination




                                                                                                                                                                                          GOLF COURSE
  Type of        Weather Watch, Warning,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FIRE DEPT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        HOSPITAL
   Alert           or Advisory Criteria




                                                                                                MXG/CC
                                                                                                         MDG/CC
                                                            4 FW/CC



                                                                                       MSG/CC
                                                                      4FW/CV




                                                                                                                  333 OPS
                                                                                                                            334 OPS
                                                                                                                                      335 OPS
                                                                                                                                                336 OPS




                                                                                                                                                                                 4 CONS
                                                                                                                                                                   NAOC*




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TRANS
                                                                                                                                                          DET 15




                                                                                                                                                                                                        POOLS
                                                                               OG/CC
                                                     ICC*




                                                                                                                                                                           NCC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                EOD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SFS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PA
Watch       Tornado                                  X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
            Severe Thunderstorm
            Damaging Wind GTE 50 knots and/or        X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Watch       Damaging Hail GTE 3/4" diameter
            Moderate Thunderstorm
            Strong Winds 31 to 49 knots and/or       X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Watch       Large Hail LT 3/4" diameter
Watch       Damaging Wind GTE 50 knots               X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
            Heavy Precipitation
                                                     X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Watch       Rain/Snow GTE 2" in 12 hours
Watch       Freezing Precipitation (any intensity)   X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Watch       Lightning within 5 NM                    X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X

Warning     Tornado                                  X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
            Severe Thunderstorm
            Damaging Wind GTE 50 knots and/or        X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Warning     Damaging Hail GTE 3/4" diameter
            Moderate Thunderstorm
            Strong Winds 31 to 49 knots and/or       X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Warning     Large Hail LT 3/4" diameter
Warning     Damaging Wind GTE 50 knots               X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Warning     Strong Winds 31 to 49 knots              X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
            Heavy Precipitation
                                                     X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Warning     Rain/Snow GTE 2" in 12 hours
Warning     Freezing Precipitation (any intensity)   X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Warning     Lightning within 5 NM                    X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X

Advisory    Winds 20 to 30 knots                     X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X

            Snow
            Accumulation GTE 1/2" but LT 2" in       X X X X X X X X                                                         X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X
Advisory    12 hours
Advisory    Temperature LTE 20F                      X       X         X        X       X        X        X       X          X         X         X         X        X      X      X         X            X      X     X      X           X          X      X
Advisory    Lightning within 10 NM                   X       X         X        X       X        X        X       X          X         X         X         X        X      X      X         X            X      X     X      X           X          X      X
Advisory    Ice FOD                                  X       X         X        X       X        X        X       X          X         X         X         X        X      X      X         X            X      X     X      X           X          X      X
Advisory    Neuse River Flood Conditions             X       X         X        X       X        X        X       X          X         X         X         X        X      X      X         X            X      X     X      X           X          X      X
* When Operational
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                             51


                                       Attachment 7
                   WEATHER IMPACTS ON UNIT OPERATIONS

Table A.7.1. Weather Impacts on Unit Operations
TORNADO WARNING
CUSTOMER         MISSION IMPACT                       PROTECTIVE MEASURE
All              Danger to life and property          Take shelter immediately
SEVERE THUNDERSTORM WARNING
4 FW, 916 ARW Cancels flight ops                      Reschedule flight ops
4 MXG            Potential damage to aircraft         1. Hangar as many acft as
                                                      possible
                                                      2. Close canopies
                                                      3. Tie down aircraft not able
                                                      to hangar
                                                      4. Secure loose items
                                                      5. Evacuate personnel from
                                                      the flight line before hail starts
4 OSS/OSAA       Threat to personnel                  Evacuate control tower when
(Tower)                                               winds reach or forecast for
                                                      75KTS
4 CES            Increased unscheduled maintenance,   1. Reschedule routine work
                 damage to trees, buildings           2. Remove fallen trees, repair
                                                      buildings
4 SFS            Loose objects may cause damage       1. Advise personnel to secure
                                                      all objects
MODERATE THUNDERSTORM WARNING
4 FW, 916 ARW Cancels flight ops                      All rescheduled
4 MXG         Potential damage to aircraft            1. Hangar as many acft as
                                                      possible
                                                      2. Close canopies
                                                      3. Tie down aircraft not able
                                                      to hangar
                                                      4. Secure loose items
                                                      5. Evacuate personnel from
                                                      the flight line before hail starts




DAMAGING WIND WARNING
4 FW, 916 ARW Cancels flight ops                      Reschedule flight ops
4 MXG         Potential damage to aircraft            1. Secure open canopies
                                                      (winds >60KTs)
 52                               SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


                                                               2. Hangar aircraft
                                                               3. Tie down aircraft not able
                                                               to hangar
                                                               4. Secure loose items
4 OSS/OSAA       Threat to personnel                           Evacuate control tower when
(Tower)                                                        winds reach or forecast for
                                                               75KTS
4 CES            Increased unscheduled maintenance,            1. Reschedule routine work
                 damage to trees, buildings                    2. Remove fallen trees, repair
                                                               buildings

4 SFS            Loose objects may cause damage                1. Advise personnel to secure
                                                               all objects
STRONG WIND WARNING
4 FW, 916 ARW 1. Delays maintenance ops and cancels            All rescheduled
              normal training missions
              2. Requires OG/CC waiver approval

4 MXG            1. Aircraft may fall from jacks               1. Aircraft with significant
                 2. Aircraft/equipment may be damaged          weight removed must be
                 3. Loose objects may cause damage             sheltered or removed from
                 4. Personnel are at risk of injury in winds   jacks
                 >40KTs                                        2. Move loose equipment to
                 5. Affects MXG ops                            storage
                                                               3. Secure loose objects and
                                                               check area for security
                                                               4. Suspend/postpone outdoor
                                                               mx except actions required to
                                                               safeguard aircraft (only when
                                                               winds are sustained or gusting
                                                               >40KTs)
                                                               5. Limits MXG ability to
                                                               accomplish the mission.




LIGHTNING W/IN 5 NM WARNING (OBSERVED)
4 FW         Delays flying, and delays/cancels                 Suspend flying, maintenance,
916 ARW      maintenance and refueling                         and refueling
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                     53


4 MXG           Threat to personnel                           1. Discontinue all fueling ops
                                                              2. Stop all munitions ops
                                                              3. Evacuate flightline
                                                              4. Stop LOX servicing &
                                                              return vehicles containing
                                                              explosives
                                                              5. Halt all other MX other
                                                              than shutting down/safeing
                                                              running aircraft
HEAVY RAIN WARNING
All         1. Runway/taxiway flooding                        1. Recall/divert aircraft in
                                                              flight
FREEZING PRECIPITATION WARNING
4 FW         1. Icing on aircraft                             1. De-ice aircraft
916 ARW      2. Runway condition changes                      2. Check Base Ops for RCR
                                                              3. Possibly divert if RCR <12
4 MXG           1. Light: Icing on aircraft                   De-ice or hangar/shelter
                2. Any icing: Runway and taxiways             aircraft (extremely limited
                hazardous                                     deicing capes)
4 CES           1. Roadways dangerous                         1. Plan alternate response
                2. Transformers may burst causing a loss of   routes
                power and alarms may go off                   2. Prioritize responses to
                                                              alarms
                                                              3. Decrease response speeds
                                                              4. Sand roads
                                                              5. Put calcium chloride on
                                                              runway



HEAVY SNOW WARNING
4 FW        1. Ice/snow on aircraft                           1. De-ice aircraft

916 ARW         2. Runway condition changes                   2. Check Base Ops for RCR

                                                              3. May require aircraft diverts
                                                              with RCR <12

4 MXG           1. Safety problems                            1. May require divert to
                                                              alternate bases without
                2. Runway condition changes                   adequate maintenance support

                                                              2. De-icing of aircraft
                                                              scheduled to fly
4 SFS           1. May affect access to controlled and        1. Coordinate entry/exit
                restricted areas                              procedures with the
54                             SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


                                                            snow control center for snow
               2. Abandoned/illegally parked vehicles may   removal. Ensure ropes and
               disrupt parking and traffic flow             doughnuts are removed
                                                            and replaced as needed

                                                            2. Remove vehicles and
                                                            control parking as conditions
                                                            dictate
4 CES          1. Any Amount: Hazardous                     1. Establish snow and ice
               road/runway conditions                       control center

               2. = 2 inches in 12 Hours:                   2. Plan alternate response
               Roadways dangerous                           routes

                                                            3. Decrease response speeds

                                                            4. Reschedule personnel for
                                                            snow removal; prepare snow
                                                            removal equipment
SNOW ACCUMULATION ADVISORY
4 FW       1. Ice/snow on aircraft                          1. De-ice aircraft
916 ARW    2. Runway condition changes                      2. Check Base Ops for RCR


4 MXG          1. Safety problems                           1. May require diverts with
               1. Runway condition changes                  RCR <12
                                                            2. May require divert to
                                                            alternate bases without
                                                            adequate maintenance support
                                                            3. De-icing of aircraft
                                                            scheduled to fly


4 CES          1. Any amount: hazardous road/runway         1. Establish snow and ice
               conditions                                   control center
               2. =2” in 12 hours: roadways dangerous       2. Plan alternate response
                                                            routes
                                                            3. Decrease response speeds
                                                            4. Reschedule personnel for
                                                            snow removal; prepare snow
                                                            removal equipment




TEMPERATURE 20° F OR LESS ADVISORY
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                 55


4 FW             Ground equipment and facility protection   1. Bring ground equipment
916 ARW                                                     indoors
                                                            2. Wrap external pipes
4 SFS            Notify base housing                        Wrap external pipes and
                                                            protect foliage
LIGHTNING WITHIN 10 NM ADVISORY (OBSERVED)
4 FW         Delay flying                                   Make decision to launch
916 ARW                                                     aircraft scheduled over next 30
                                                            min
4 MOC            Threat to personnel and equipment          Preparations begin for shutting
                                                            down operations and
                                                            protecting equipment, some
                                                            explosives mx will stop
4 SFS            Threat to personnel and equipment          Alert basing areas and guards
                                                            on gate to take protective
                                                            action
4 CES            Threat to personnel and equipment          Bring in personnel and
                                                            equipment working outside
ICE FOD ADVISORY (OBSERVED)
4 MXG         Running engines have a greatly increased      Engine runs are prohibited
              potential for ice accumulation on inlet       from using anti-personnel
              which could result in foreign object damage   screen and an observer must
              to the engine.                                be used to watch for ice build-
                                                            up




NEUSE RIVER FLOOD STAGE (= 19 FT) ADVISORY (OBSERVED)
4 FW         Floods end of runway; cancels or  Cancel or re-schedule flying
916 ARW      reschedules flying
4 MOC        Floods maintenance facilities     1. Sand bag at risk facilities
                                               2. Relocate at risk equipment
                                               (engines, aircraft, etc)
                                               3. Possible evacuation
4 SFS        Floods munitions area             Close back gate and re-route
                                               all truck deliveries
4 CES        Floods end of runway              Start removal of sequence
                                               flashers on 08-end (west).
 56                             SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


                                    Attachment 8
                                MOAS AND RANGES

Figure A8.1. MOAs used by 4 FW




Figure A8.2. Primary Low Level Routes




Figure A8.3. Primary Air Refueling Area
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                        57


                                         Attachment 9
                             4 FW WEATHER SENSITIVITIES

A9.1. MISSIONWATCH: MISSIONWATCH is the deliberate process of monitoring
terrestrial and space weather for specific mission-limiting environmental conditions. The
MISSIONWATCH process identifies and alerts decision makers to changes affecting mission
success based on pre-coordinated mission-limiting weather thresholds. It is critical that all on-
duty forecasters know the times, types and operating areas for all missions planned for the day,
as well as the weather thresholds which must be watched for those missions.
A9.2. MISSIONWATCH Procedures:
   A9.2.1. Proper ORM procedures will be utilized to maintain a MISSIONWATCH for the
   missions of the day, with the focus on those critical portions of missions placed at risk due to
   environmental conditions.
   A9.2.2. Risk Categories: Levels of risk for the purpose of ORM procedures will be
   consistent with the applicable mission-limiting weather thresholds.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15

   A9.2.3. The weather flight will utilize the following MISSIONWATCH steps:
       A9.2.3.1. Determine the mission(s) placed at risk due to terrestrial or space weather
       conditions
       A9.2.3.2. Continuously monitor at-risk mission routes, ranges, and divert airfields for
       significant changes. Spot-check low-risk missions.
       A9.2.3.3. Focus on mission-limiting weather thresholds for each specific mission.
       A9.2.3.4. Evaluate for change in risk category and reprioritize MISSIONWATCH as
       appropriate. Notify SOF, FS Top 3s and affected aircrews of weather conditions crossing
       mission-limiting thresholds.
       A9.2.3.5. Integrate weather impacts into the decision-making process to provide
       operational alternatives.
       A9.2.3.6. Update (amend) Mission Weather Products as necessary.
       A9.2.3.7. Continue to monitor missions based on threat.
   A9.2.4. The 26 OWS will be informed when their weather products do not accurately reflect
   observed conditions and impact flight safety.
A9.3. Mission-Limiting Weather Thresholds: The following tables provide weather impacts
for the F-15E and other typical missions conducted by the 4FW at Seymour Johnson AFB.
AFI 11-214 and Fighter/Bomber TTP may also serve as a guide. The exact thresholds will
depend on mission type, munitions used, and pilot flying experience. Therefore it is ultimately
the mission commander who declares the weather thresholds for a certain mission. All resource
protection thresholds are documented in Attachment 5.
 58                               SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


Table A9.1. FLIGHT MISSION WEATHER MINIMUMS
F15E Pilot Weather Categories        F15E Crosswind Limits
Cat 1             Plate Minimums.    Dry Runway       30kt
Cat 2             300/1              Wet Runway       25kt
Cat 3             500/1.5            Formation T/O    15kt
Cat 4             700/2
Cat 5             1500/3
KC-135 Crosswind Limits
Dry Runway        25kt               Touch-and-go       15kt
Wet Runway        N/A                Engine-out         15kt

Table A9.2. Weather Thresholds for F-15E Missions
Minimum Ceiling and Visibility/Weather Limits
Single Ship Take-off                    -Aircrew WX Category
Single Ship Landing                     -Aircrew WX Category
Overhead Pattern                        -3,000/3
Night VFR                               -3,000/5
Restricted VFR Pattern (FTU Ops Only -2,300/3
OR Checkrides IAW SJAFBI 11-250)
VFR Rejoin                              -1,500/3
Night Rejoin                            -3,000/5
Visual Routes                           -3,000/5
Day Range                               -1,500/3
Night Range                             -1,500/5
Take-off with live ordinance            -Tailwind 15kt
Air-to-Air Refueling (AAR)              - Flight Visibility 1nm
                                        - Moderate Turbulence
Air-to-Air (A/A)                        - 2,000’ vertical/1nm horizontal cloud
                                          clearance
                                        - 5nm flight level visibility
                                        -Clearly discernible horizon
Air-to-Air (A/A) (Farmville MOA)        - 4,500/5
Basic Flight Maneuvers (BFM)            - 5,000 deep cloud-free layer
                                        - 5nm flight level visibility
Instrument Check (INST)                 - Ceiling 1,500
                                        - Wind 25kt
                                        - Light Precipitation
Cross Country Sortie (XC)               -Aircrew WX Category
Air-to-Ground (AG)                      - 1,500/3
Dissimilar Air Combat Training (DACT) - 5,000 deep cloud-free layer
                                        - 5nm flight level visibility
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                             59


Night Intercept (NINT)                 - 5,000 deep cloud-free layer
                                       - 5nm flight level visibility
LANTRIN Mission (LANT)                 - 5,000 deep cloud-free layer
                                       - 5nm flight level visibility
Incentive Flight (INC)                 -1,500/3
Intercept Training (INT)               - 5,000 deep cloud-free layer
                                       - 5nm flight level visibility
Air Combat Maneuvering (ACM)           - 5,000 deep cloud-free layer
                                       - 5nm flight level visibility
Ground Attack Training (GAT)           -1,500/3
Night Ground Attack Training (NGAT)    -1,500/3
UHF                                    -Marginal or Above
GPS                                    -Mission Dependent

Table A9.3. Weather Thresholds for KC-135 Missions
Minimum Ceiling and Visibility/Weather Limits
Take-off                         -Take-off Alternate (Alternate w/in 30 minutes
                                 flying time)
Landing                          -Landing Alternate (Landing alternate required if
                                 primary <3000/3)
Touch-and-go                     - 300/ ¾ and RVR >4000ft
                                 - No ice, slush or snow on runway
Air Refueling (AAR)              - Flight Visibility >1nm
                                 - Moderate Turbulence
Rectangular Pattern              -1,800/3
Flight level ≥ 23,000            -Thunderstorms >20nm from flight path
Flight level < 23,000            -Thunderstorms >10nm from flight path
Mountain Wave Turbulence         -Light or None
Turbulence/Icing                 -Moderate (Reported) or less
HF/UHF                           -Marginal or Above
GPS                              -Mission Dependent
 60                                 SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


                                         Attachment 10
                        MISSION EXECUTION FORECAST (MEF)

A10.1. The MEF will be produced NLT 4 hours prior to the first take-off for 4 FW flying units.
Valid time will be from 30 minutes prior to the first take-off to 1 hour after the last landing for
each go. When the product is issued or amended, the time will be posted on the first slide.
A10.2. The MEF will be updated any time it becomes unrepresentative of current or forecast
conditions. The FS forecasters will notify the TOP-3 and all other MW forecasters when the
MEF is updated. Amendments will be issued for all WWA criteria specified in Attachment 5.
A10.3. FW F-15E missions use the OSW SharePoint as the primary source for flight MEF
briefings, satisfying requirements in AFI 11-202V3 ACC Supplement 1, Flying Operations,
General Flight Rules. The SharePoint can be supplemented with a verbal briefing (Step Brief) or
by a DD Form 175-1, as required.
A10.4. MEF include, but are not limited to:
   A10.4.1. Opening Slide: This slide contains take off and landing weather, flight hazards,
   sunrise/set data and flight level winds. The valid times, posted time, and MW forecaster who
   created the MEF are also listed on this slide.
   A10.4.2. Take-Off/Landing Conditions: This section contains winds, cross-winds, visibility,
   weather, sky condition, WWAs, minimum altimeter setting, max temperature for the GO, and
   temperature at take-off.
   A10.4.3. Flight Conditions: This section contains hazards, freezing level, contrails, space
   weather impacts, and flight level winds from 5,000ft to 30,000ft in 5,000ft increments.
   A10.4.4. Illumination Data: This section contains sunrise, sunset, moonrise, moonset, End
   Evening Civil Twilight, percentage of moon illumination, thermal crossover data, ambient
   illumination less than 2.2 mlux.
   A10.4.5. Low Levels: This slide gives a Go/No-Go forecast for commonly used low level
   routes. This section only specifies ceilings and visibility conditions if they are observed or
   forecast to be less than 3,000 ft or 5 SM. Each forecast will include cloud bases up to 4,000
   ft.
   A10.4.6. Military Operating Areas/Air Refueling Tracks:         These sections include cloud
   bases and tops, hazards, visibility and weather.
   A10.4.7. Dare County: This section includes winds, visibility, weather, cloud layers, hazards
   and winds from surface to 15,000 ft. This section also provides basic Tactical Decision Aid
   (TDA) data. It uses standard targets and release altitudes and can be made more specific
   with prior coordination.
   A10.4.8. Whiskeys: This slide is specific to the training areas over water. It provides cloud
   layers, weather, and YES/NO tags indicating if winds, waves, or water temperatures are
   crossing operational thresholds.
A10.4.9. Winds/Waves/Water Temperatures: These slides are added as required to indicate
areas with water temperatures less than 60 degrees Fahrenheit or water temperatures between 60
and 51 degrees Fahrenheit with air temperatures greater than 70 degrees Fahrenheit, surface
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                       61


winds equal to or greater than 25kts (sustained), and waves equal to or greater than 10ft.
   A10.4.10. Diverts: This slide gives a forecast for commonly used divert bases. The forecast
   specifies winds, cross-winds, visibility, weather and sky condition expected for each divert
   base.
   A10.4.11. For an example of the 4 FW MEF click on the following link:
   https://seymourjohnson.eim.acc.af.mil/4th_fw/Operations/oss/OSW/default.aspx
A10.5. MISSIONWATCH. The FS forecaster will conduct a continuous MISSIONWATCH of
all routes and flying areas used by the flying squadron for which they are responsible. They will
notify the TOP-3 and all pertinent WF forecasters of any significant changes in the MEF or other
previously briefed weather conditions. Another FS forecaster or the WF forecaster may assume
responsibility for MISSIONWATCH functions, relieving the MW forecaster.
A10.6. AOL/Backup. If the FS is forced to evacuate its facility, the forecaster will relocate with
the FS and continue integrated support. If the forecaster at a specific squadron evacuates and is
unable to continue integrated support, they will notify the WF forecaster and MISSIONWATCH
will continue from the WF.
A10.7. Liaison Position. When WF manning dictates, MW forecasters may have to pull out of
the FSs and provide all Mission Weather Element functions from the WF. In these instances,
Step Briefs will be conveyed to the respective squadron TOP-3. The TOP-3 will then verbally
relay any MEF changes to the aircrew as they depart for their missions.
 62                                SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 11
                              STAFF WEATHER BREIFING

A11.1. The staff briefing is completed by the Flt/CC or designated representative every week
and is attended by the senior wing leadership, to include all group and squadron commanders.
The weather portion of this briefing consists of a satellite shot, surface analysis, Seymour
Johnson 5-day, and other requested weather information.
A11.2. The staff meeting occurs in the Wing Command Post
A11.3. Daily wing stand-ups briefs occur on a nearly basis which include similar information as
the weekly brief.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013                                                          63


                                          Attachment 12
    HURRICANE CONDITION OF READINESS (HURCON) LEVELS, TROPICAL
    STORM DEFINITIONS AND TCCOR SECTORS AND TROPICAL CYCLONE
               THREAT ASSESSMENT PRODUCT (TC-TAP)

Table A12.1. HURCON Levels and Definitions and Tropical Storm Definitions
Condition                Definition
HURCON 4                 Winds of 50 knots (58 mph) or greater are forecast to affect the area
                         within 96 hours
HURCON 3                 Winds of 50 knots (58 mph) or greater are forecast to affect the area
                         within 72 hours
HURCON 2                 Winds of 50 knots (58 mph) or greater are forecast to affect the area
                         within 48 hours
HURCON 1                 Winds of 50 knots (58 mph) or greater are forecast to affect the area
                         within 24 hours
HURCON 1 E               Indicates surface winds in excess of 58 mph are occurring and other
                         dangerous conditions associated with the storm are present. All outside
                         activity is strictly prohibited.
HURCON 1 R               Indicates life-threatening storm hazards have passed but damage may
                         persist and only emergency responders and damage assessment personnel
                         are released to move about.
Tropical Depression Tropical cyclone with maximum sustained winds of <34 knots
Tropical Storm           Tropical cyclone with maximum sustained winds 34-63 knots
Hurricane                Tropical cyclone with maximum sustained winds of 64 knots or greater
NOTE: The WF will provide continuous tropical storm or hurricane information when a storm
center is within or forecast to be within 500 nautical miles of SJAFB.
A12.1. HURCON/Response Phases. SJAFB uses HURCON Phases, detailed in the Seymour
Johnson Installation Emergency Management Plan (IEMP) 10-2 Annex B, to ensure preparation
information is passed to all base agencies. These conditions/phases give sufficient preparation
time to safeguard personnel, aircraft, equipment, and facilities. HURCON Phases are determined
by the 4 FW/CC, or a designated representative, and are disseminated throughout the base by all
available means. See IEMP 10-2 for HURCON Phases specifics.
A12.2. Hurricane Categories. SJAFB uses the Saffir/Simpson Hurricane Scale to classify
hurricanes. The Saffir/Simpson Hurricane Scale is a 1-5 rating based on the hurricane's present
intensity. This is used to give an estimate of the potential property damage and flooding
expected along the coast from a hurricane landfall. Wind speed is the determining factor in the
scale, as storm surge values are highly dependent on the slope of the continental shelf in the
landfall region. Note that a “major” hurricane is one that is classified as category three or higher.
See      the    following     link    for    more       details     on      hurricane     categories:
http://www.nhc.noaa.gov/aboutsshws.php
 64                            SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013


                                   Attachment 13
                          AGENCY DISTRIBUTION LIST

HQ ACC/A3W, Langley AFB VA 23665-5000
HQ ACC OL-K, Langley AFB VA 23665-5000
  ACC TRSS/CC
4th Fighter Wing, Seymour Johnson AFB NC 27531-2524
  4 FW/CC
  4 FW/CP
  4 FW/PA
  4 FW/SE
  4 FW/XP
  4 FW/HO
  4 OG/CC
  333 FS/CC
  334 FS/CC
  335 FS/CC
  336 FS/CC
  4 TS/CC
  4 OSS/CC
  4 OSS/OSA
  4 OSS/OSR
  4 OSS/OSX
  4 OSS/IN
  4 MXG/CC
  4 AMXS/CC
  4 CMS/CC
  4 EMS/CC
  4 MOS/CC
  4 MSG/CC
  4 CES/CC
  4 CONS/CC
  4 CS/CC
  4 LRS/CC
  4 FSS/CC
  4 SFS/CC
  4 FSS/CC
  4 MDG/CC

Associate Units, Seymour Johnson AFB NC
  916 ARW
  1195 Blakeslee Ave
  Seymour Johnson AFB NC 27531-2524


414 FG/CC
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI15-101 6 DECEMBER 2013   65


1960 Jabara Ave Bldg 4516
Seymour Johnson AFB NC 27531


307 FS/CC
1960 Jabara Ave Bldg 4516
Seymour Johnson AFB NC 27531
