BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         SEYMOURJOHNSON AFB INSTRUCTION
4TH FIGHTER WING                                                           48-101

                                                                                    2 MAY 2012

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                     RADIATION PROTECTION PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 4 AMDS/SGGB                                                      Certified by: 4 AMDS/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col Duncan G. Hughes)
Supersedes:   SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI                                                       Pages: 13
              48-101, August 2001


This instruction defines responsibilities and gives general guidance for conducting the Radiation
Protection Program at Seymour Johnson Air Force Base including USAFR tenant units. This
instruction supplements requirements detailed in the following regulations: AFPD 48-1,
Aerospace Medical Program, AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force,
AFOSH Standard 48-9, Electro-Magnetic Frequency (EMF) Radiation Occupational Health
Program, AFOSH Standard 48-139, LASER Radiation Protection Program, and AFMAN 48-
125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry. It provides guidance for protecting personnel
from exposure to ionizing (i.e. radioisotopes and X-ray producing devices) and non-ionizing
radiation (i.e. RFR and LASER radiation), and applies to all Air Force and tenant units on
Seymour Johnson AFB that possess or use radioactive materials or radiation producing devices.
This instruction does not apply to the exposure of patients by the Medical Service during
diagnostic or therapeutic exposures or exposures to personnel by radiation resulting from the
employment of nuclear or thermonuclear weapons in combat. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                             SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI48-101 2 MAY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Instruction has been revised in its entirety. It must be completely reviewed for changes and
new information. Major changes include a complete re-write due to Air Force regulation
updates.


1. OBJECTIVE. It is Air Force policy that all exposures to radiation be As Low As
Reasonably Achievable (ALARA). There should be no exposure to ionizing or non-ionizing
radiation without an expected benefit, and the dose received should be the lowest possible.
While the established maximum permissible exposure doses are conservative and offer a low risk
of adverse health effects compared to other hazards of life and occupation, it is prudent that
every effort be made to reduce exposures to the lowest level that is reasonably achievable,
thereby lowering the health risk associated with the exposure. This instruction implements
ALARA by establishing a comprehensive, coordinated, and base-wide radiation protection
program that incorporates all of the current radiation protection requirements as well as certain
additional management concepts and controls specifically designed to maintain exposures to
personnel ALARA.
2. AUTHORITIES/REFERENCES. This base instruction implements the radiation control
policies and requirements contained in:
     2.1. AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation.
     2.2. AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force.
     2.3. AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry.
     2.4. AFOSH Standard 48-9, Electro-Magnetic Frequency (EMF) Radiation Occupational
     Health Program
     2.5. AFOSH Standard 48-139, LASER Radiation Protection Program
     2.6. T.O. 00-110N Series, Safety and Control Requirements in the Radiation Field.
     2.7. 10 CFR, Energy.
     2.8. 21 CFR, Food and Drugs.
     2.9. 49 CFR, Transportation.
     2.10. Department of Defense Instruction (DODI) 6055.8, Occupational Radiation Protection
     Program.
     2.11. AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports.
3. DEFINITIONS.
     3.1. ALARA CONCEPT: The ALARA concept is a set of management and administrative
     actions taken to reduce personnel radiation dose to as low as possible consistent with existing
     technology, costs, and operational requirements. The ALARA concept was developed in
     response to scientific evidence that suggests that no level of radiation exposure is totally risk
     free.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI48-101 2 MAY 2012                                                              3


  3.2. IONIZING RADIATION: Electromagnetic radiation which may cause ionization
  within cells or tissues of the body. Alpha particles, beta particles, gamma rays, X-rays, and
  neutrons are examples of types of ionizing radiation.
  3.3. RADIO FREQUENCY (RF) RADIATION: Electromagnetic radiation emitted at
  frequencies from 10 kilohertz (KHz) to 300 gigahertz (GHz). Examples of RF radiation
  producing devices are Radar and communications equipment, and microwave ovens.
  3.4. LASER (Light Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation). Devices that can
  emit a single and coherent frequency of energy in the range 315 to 1,400 nanometers (nm).
  3.5. RADIATION SAFETY OFFICER (RSO): An individual designated by the appropriate
  level commander to manage radiation protection programs. The RSO provides consultation
  and advice on the hazards associated with radiation and effectiveness of measures to control
  these hazards. This individual shall be the most technically qualified and experienced person
  available to assure capability commensurate with the assignment. The term "RSO" is a
  functional title and is not intended to denote a commissioned status or a job classification
  within the Air Force. There are three distinct categories of RSOs at Seymour Johnson AFB:
     3.5.1. INSTALLATION RSO: An individual designated by the installation commander
     to manage the Installation Radiation Protection Program. This individual will usually be
     the base bioenvironmental engineer or a senior bioenvironmental engineering technician
     (AFSC 4B0X1) with experience subject to approval by the USAF Radioisotope
     Committee.
     3.5.2. UNIT RSO: An individual designated by the unit commander to act as the single
     focal point for the unit on radiation protection matters. Each operational unit that uses or
     operates radiation producing devices or materials will appoint, in writing, a unit RSO.
     3.5.3. PERMIT or LICENSE RSO: An individual designated by the unit commander
     and approved by the USAF Radioisotope Committee or Nuclear Regulatory Commission
     (NRC) to manage the radiation protection aspects associated with the use of radioactive
     materials for which a specific USAF Radioactive Material Permit or an NRC License has
     been issued.
4. RESPONSIBILITIES.
  4.1. The Commander, 4th Fighter Wing will:
     4.1.1. Appoint, in writing, an Installation Radiation Safety Officer (usually the base’s
     senior ranking bioenvironmental engineer).
     4.1.2. Delegate the authority to the Installation RSO to suspend installation operations
     involving radioactive materials that pose a significant health risk to personnel, are in clear
     violation of regulations or requirements, or can negatively impact AF operations,
     materiel, or real estate.
     4.1.3. Prohibit the receipt or transfer of radioactive material (to include radioactive
     material used in classified operations) without prior coordination and/or approval by the
     Installation RSO.
4                                            SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI48-101 2 MAY 2012


    4.2. The Commander, 4th Medical Group will:
       4.2.1. Ensure complete records are maintained of either measured or estimated radiation
       dose received by personnel during occupational practices and contingency operations in
       the member’s medical record.
       4.2.2. Ensure all reported incidents of suspected or alleged overexposure to ionizing, RF,
       or LASER radiation are reported to and investigated by Bioenvironmental Engineering
       and the results of such investigations are properly documented by Public Health.
       4.2.3. Ensure medical follow-up of personnel receiving significant exposures to ionizing
       radiation in accordance with AFI 48-148, Chapter 6.
       4.2.4. Ensure medical use of radiation complies with AFI 48-148, Chapter 4.
       4.2.5. Comply with all other requirements of AFI 48-148, paragraph 2.13., AFOSH Std
       48-9 paragraph 1.8., and AFOSH Std 48-139, paragraph 1.8.
    4.3. Commander, 4th Contracting Squadron will:
       4.3.1. Ensure that all installation contracts executed after the effective date of this
       instruction include the following requirements:
           4.3.1.1. All uses of radioactive material or ionizing radiation-producing equipment
           on Seymour Johnson AFB must be coordinated and approved in writing by the
           installation RSO prior to use. To obtain installation RSO approval, follow the
           procedures outlined in SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI 48-101, paragraph 11.
       4.3.2. Comply with all other requirements of AFI 40-201, paragraph 1.18.
    4.4. Commander, 4th Logistics Readiness Squadron will:
       4.4.1. Prevent the transfer of any radioactive material to units on the installation without
       prior coordination with the installation or affected permit RSO.
       4.4.2. Develop and implement procedures to prevent the inadvertent transfer of
       radioactive material/items containing radioactive material or suspect items through the
       Defense Reutilization Management Office (DRMO) system.
       4.4.3. Comply with all other requirements of AFI 40-201, paragraph 1.19.
    4.5. Commander, 4th Civil Engineering Squadron will:
       4.5.1. Comply with all requirements of AFI 40-201, paragraph 1.20.
    4.6. Commander, 4th Security Forces Squadron will:
       4.6.1. Immediately notify the installation RSO of suspected, attempted, or actual theft or
       sabotage of radioactive material, to include supply items containing radioactive material.
    4.7. Organization or Unit Commanders will:
       4.7.1. Designate, in writing, an organizational or unit RSO when an organization
       possesses a radioactive materials permit or when an organization’s practices can
       potentially result in radiation exposure at or above 10 percent of the annual radiation dose
       limits. For Seymour Johnson AFB, this applies to the following organizations: 4 MXG
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI48-101 2 MAY 2012                                                              5


     (MXQA), 4 CMS (MXMVS), 4 EMS (MXMFN), 916 MXS (MXMFN), 916 CES
     (CEX), 4 CES (CEX and CED), 4 AMDS (SGGD), 4 MDSS (SGSAR).
     4.7.2. Ensure shop supervisors responsible for the operation of potentially hazardous
     radiation producing equipment develop unit radiation safety awareness training plans.
     4.7.3. Comply with all other requirements of AFI 48-148, paragraph 2.11., AFOSH Std
     48-9 paragraph 1.9., and AFOSH Std 48-139, paragraph 1.11.
  4.8. Permittees (Unit Commanders of Units Possessing Radioactive Material Permits) will:
     4.8.1. Coordinate with the installation RSO prior to receiving, possessing, using,
     distributing, storing, transporting, transferring, or disposing of any radioactive material or
     commodity containing radioactive material.
     4.8.2. Comply with all other requirements of AFI 40-201, paragraph 1.23.
  4.9. Installation RSO (Bioenvironmental Engineer) will:
     4.9.1. Conduct the base wide Radiation Protection Program, which includes surveillance
     of all radioactive materials and radiation producing devices.
     4.9.2. Coordinate and assist unit RSOs as necessary to ensure a comprehensive,
     coordinated radiation protection program.
     4.9.3. Perform initial and periodic hazard evaluations of all radiation sources or
     modifications as needed. Define health hazards, hazardous areas, and recommend proper
     control measures to commanders and users.
     4.9.4. Compile and keep a current inventory of Air Force owned and operated radiation
     sources on base.
     4.9.5. Operate the Base Personnel Dosimetry Program. Issue personnel dosimeters and
     review all results.
     4.9.6. Conduct or arrange for investigations of alleged personnel overexposures to
     radiation.
     4.9.7. Make available ALARA, RFR, and LASER training tools to unit RSOs and
     supervisors of personnel who use or operate radiation sources.
     4.9.8. Provide briefings and other health education consultations concerning radiation
     when requested by unit RSOs and commanders.
     4.9.9. Review annually this program, individual unit permit programs, and periodically
     areas that use radiation producing devices or radioactive material.
     4.9.10. Ensure key base agencies (e.g., base commander, fire department, CES
     commander, and SFS commander) are informed of authorized uses of radioactive
     material (RAM) on the installation annually with periodic updates as required.
     4.9.11. Brief annually to wing leadership the status of the base radiation protection
     program at the wing’s quarterly Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH)
     Council.
     4.9.12. Maintain and annually review this installation radiation safety instruction.
6                                           SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI48-101 2 MAY 2012


       4.9.13. Comply with all other requirements of AFI 40-210 paragraph 1.15, AFI 48-148
       paragraph 2.15., AFOSH Std 48-9 paragraph 1.8.1, and AFOSH Std 48-139 paragraph
       1.8.1.
    4.10. Public Health Flight will:
       4.10.1. Start action to investigate alleged or suspected radiation overexposures. Prepare
       and distribute AF Form 190, Occupational Illness/Injury Report, and additional
       documentation as appropriate for all incidents of alleged personnel exposure to radiation
       as outlined in AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Operations.
    4.11. Unit RSOs will:
       4.11.1. Act as a single point of contact for the unit on radiation safety matters and
       maintain active liaison with the Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight.
       4.11.2. Conduct annual radiation safety training for the pertinent personnel in their unit
       and record the training on a sign-in roster and on the individuals’ AF Form 55, Employee
       Safety and Health Record. Provide a copy of the sign-in roster to the installation RSO.
       4.11.3. Submit semi-annual inventory of all radiation producing items in the workplace
       to the installation RSO. Inventories must include date of the inventory, model number
       and serial number of each source if assigned, the identity of the radionuclide and quantity
       (manufacturer date if sealed source) for ionizing radiation sources, the location of each
       source, and the signature of the unit/permit RSO certifying the accuracy of the inventory.
       4.11.4. Comply with all other requirements of AFI 48-148 paragraph 2.16.
    4.12. Permit RSOs will:
       4.12.1. Ensure annual radiation safety training is accomplished and recorded.
       4.12.2. Annually brief the permittee and installation RSO on the permit radiation safety
       program, including the program’s regulatory compliance, and that exposures are
       ALARA. Document the annual brief with a memo or Staff Summary Sheet signed by the
       permittee and maintain with permit records.
       4.12.3. Comply with all other requirements of AFI 40-201 paragraph 1.26.
    4.13. Supervisors will:
       4.13.1. Ensure that workers follow procedures published in equipment technical orders
       and manuals, unit OIs, etc., for protection of personnel from exposure to radiation.
       4.13.2. Ensure members of the general public are protected from non-occupational
       exposures resulting from AF practices.
       4.13.3. Ensure their personnel are trained on radiation hazards in the workplace and
       appropriate requirements for protection upon initial assignment to the workplace and
       annually thereafter.    Radiation safety training plans should be reviewed by
       Bioenvironmental Engineering annually.
       4.13.4. Ensure personnel perform the duties of their job in accordance with ALARA
       principles.
       4.13.5. Notify the primary care manager of the declared pregnancy status of workers.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI48-101 2 MAY 2012                                                             7


       4.13.6. Notify the responsible RSO of changes in practices or procedures involving
       radiation sources.
       4.13.7. Notify the responsible RSO of potential violations of AFIs or this instruction, of
       unsafe work practices involving radiation sources, or of accidents or incidents involving
       radiation.
       4.13.8. Contact Bioenvironmental Engineering immediately following a suspected or
       alleged abnormal exposure to radiation.
       4.13.9. Ensure new radioactive materials including ionizing, non-ionizing sources, and
       LASERs are not procured without first consulting the Installation RSO.
       4.13.10. Maintain a current copy of this instruction.
   4.14. Workers will:
       4.14.1. Follow procedures for safe work given in equipment technical orders and
       manuals, unit OIs, etc., and perform operations in a manner that maintains doses
       ALARA.
       4.14.2. Make sure required warning signs and safety devices are in place or properly set
       before beginning work, and that everyone understands the procedures and signals to be
       used for the task being done.
       4.14.3. A female military member shall, on becoming aware she is pregnant, notify her
       workplace supervisor or primary care manager. A female non-military member should
       notify their workplace supervisor or primary care manager, but their decision to declare
       their pregnancy is entirely voluntary.
   4.15. Non-Air Force organizations will: abide with AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive
   Materials in the USAF, to include obtaining written approval from the installation RSO at
   DSN 722-5401 or Comm (919) 722-5401 before they bring new sources on base. AFI 40-
   201 paragraph 11 outlines specific requirements.
5. USAF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL PERMITS. A single broad scope NRC license has
been issued to the USAF Radioisotope Committee (HQ AFMOA/SGPR). The committee is the
sole authority within the Air Force to approve and control use, possession, receipt, transfer, and
disposal of all radioactive materials for which the NRC has jurisdiction.
   5.1. Permit Procedures: The application procedures for renewal, amendment, and new
   permits will follow the procedures outlined in AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials
   in the Air Force. Those organizations making application for authority to use, process,
   receive, transfer, or dispose of radioactive material which are licensable materials (10 CFR
   30) will continue to submit applications using appropriate NRC forms and NRC Regulatory
   guides. Applications will be reviewed and approved or disapproved by the USAF
   Radioisotope Committee. The Installation RSO will be the focal point for all permit
   activities on Seymour Johnson AFB.
   5.2. Inventory/Control Procedures: Specific inventory requirements and health and safety
   precautions contained in the USAF Permit will be adhered to by the using agency. An
   inventory of the material will be maintained by the using agency and will be conducted IAW
   the RAM permit or at least semi-annually. Permitted radioactive materials in Base Supply
8                                            SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI48-101 2 MAY 2012


    possession will be inventoried and controlled by an appointed Supply RSO. All receipts
    transfer, and disposal of radioactive material will be annotated on the inventory. A radiation
    protection survey will be conducted periodically, based on the Installation RSO’s risk
    assessment, to assure compliance with applicable regulations. Swipe/leak tests will be
    performed by the Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight, but it is the permit RSO’s
    responsibility to ensure swipe/leak tests are performed IAW the RAM Permit. Results are
    maintained by the permit RSO and reviewed by the Installation RSO.
    5.3. Documentation: All documentation concerning the radioactive material will be
    maintained by the using organization until actual elimination by the using organization and
    for at least 3 years thereafter. Termination of use and/or permit does not relieve the user of
    documentation requirements.
    5.4. Loss of Material: Notification of accidents and/or incidents which were reportable to
    the NRC will now be reported to the USAF Radioisotope Committee. The committee will
    provide the required notification to the NRC as necessary.
6. RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL RECEIPT, STORAGE, SHIPMENT, AND LABELING.
    6.1. Receiving.
       6.1.1. Upon receipt of radioactive material or commodities containing radioisotopes, the
       permit licensee or the source of supply which received the material will contact the
       Bioenvironmental Engineering flight, to perform appropriate swipe tests and radiation
       monitoring of the received item. If the package is labeled as White I, Yellow II, or
       Yellow III, they need to be monitored within 3 hours. Bioenvironmental Engineering can
       be contacted at 722-5401, if after normal duty hours contact the on-call technician at 919-
       750-1132. (Reference: 10 CFR 20.1906).
       6.1.2. The container should be visually inspected and labeled with Air Force Technical
       Order (AFTO) Form 9B (AFI 40-201). The properly packaged and labeled radioactive
       material should be forwarded immediately to the using organization or storage area as
       applicable.
       6.1.3. Isolate the container and notify the unit and installation RSO if the shipments are
       received damaged, if seals are broken, or if tampered with. Discrepancies will be
       reported as outlined in T.O. 00-110N-3.
    6.2. Storage: Radioactive materials will be stored in secured and identified areas approved
    by Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE). All commodities which contain radioactive material
    will be labeled IAW AFI 40-201. Provisions must be made to preclude unauthorized
    removal of radioactive material or items.
    6.3. Shipping: All shipment of radioactive materials must be coordinated with the
    installation RSO/Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight. Commodities containing radioactive
    material will not be consolidated with other materials for shipment since radioactive items
    are designated as “hazardous”. Contact the installation RSO to determine if a particular
    commodity contains radioactive material. Items must be shipped in accordance with DOT
    regulations.
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI48-101 2 MAY 2012                                                              9


   6.4. Marking and Identification: All commodities, packages, containers, work, and storage
   areas containing radioactive material must be identified. Requirements for radioactive
   material warning labels and placing of placards are outlined in AFI 40-201.
   6.5. Documentation: All base agencies storing or using commodities containing radioactive
   material will maintain logs indicating all items received, stored, or transferred. All radiation
   protection survey reports and swipe sample results will be maintained on file by the using
   agency and reviewed by the installation RSO.
7. RADIOACTIVE WASTE DISPOSAL. All disposal actions will be coordinated through
the installation RSO. Specific procedures for radioactive waste disposal are available from the
88 ABW web site (https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/rad) and representatives of the office can be
reached at DSN 787-2010 or commercial 937-257-2010.
8. INDUSTRIAL, MEDICAL, AND DENTAL X-RAY UNITS. All equipment capable of
producing X-rays must be monitored for potential exposure to workers and the public. The
Installation RSO will maintain an inventory of all equipment and BEF will perform X-ray scatter
evaluations of work areas with a frequency as determined by the installation RSO’s risk
assessment. Scatter surveys will be maintained on file by the Installation RSO as well as by the
shop supervisor.
   8.1. Industrial X-ray Units. Procedures for Non-Destructive Inspection (NDI) facilities
   (shielded and unshielded operations) must be evaluated annually by the Installation RSO to
   assure compliance with T.O. 33B-1-1. This annual evaluation does not require a new scatter
   survey as long as the current survey is accurate.
   8.2. Medical and Dental Units: The Installation RSO will evaluate these units (with a
   frequency determined by the installation RSO’s risk assessment) to assure all safety and
   health precautions are enforced by the user.
   8.3. Testing of Protective Clothing: All leaded gloves, aprons and gonadal shields must be
   inspected at least annually for safety defects by the using agency. Radiographic inspection
   must be used when visual inspection detects cracks or defects.
       8.3.1. Defective items should be removed from use and replaced. Document the annual
       inspection in a logbook or by a memorandum for record. The documentation should
       reflect the local identification number for the item, date of inspection, and any findings.
9. BASE PERSONNEL DOSIMETRY PROGRAM. Certain work areas are enrolled in the
personnel dosimetry program based on specific risk criteria and exposure levels are outlined in
AFMAN 48-125.
   9.1. The primary monitoring device for use in determining occupational exposure to ionizing
   radiation on any Air Force installation is the Thermoluminescent Dosimeter (TLD). The
   TLD must be worn by the individual while performing any task involving potential exposure
   to ionizing radiation. When not in use, the dosimeter must be kept in appropriate storage
   areas free from radiation sources and away from excessive heat or moisture. When in use,
   the "whole body" badge should be worn between the chest and the hips. A whole body
   badge should never be worn on the collar, as a separate collar badge is issued for this
   purpose. When issued a collar and a whole body badge, both badges must be worn at all
   times while within work area/radiation area.
 10                                          SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI48-101 2 MAY 2012


   9.2. Issuance of Personnel Dosimeters: The Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight, 4th
   Medical Group, is responsible for the operation of the USAF Personnel Dosimetry Program
   on Seymour Johnson AFB. TLDs may be obtained at any time. All records will be
   maintained by this section. Master records will be maintained in the individual's medical
   record.
   9.3. Pregnant Female Policy: The individual's supervisor or physician may restrict a
   pregnant female's duties involving radiation. There is no blanket policy to remove them from
   radiation duties. Each pregnancy is handled on a case-by-case basis depending upon their
   potential to receive radiation exposure. The individual’s medical provider will provide a
   recommendation based on the risk assessment from the installation RSO/Bioenvironmental
   Engineering. Pregnant females may be enrolled in monthly dosimetry monitoring.
   9.4. Deploying Personnel Enrolled in the Base Personnel Dosimetry Program: Deploying
   personnel MUST notify Bioenvironmental Engineering (Bldg 2810) of their deployment and
   leave their home-station TLD badge in their work area at Seymour Johnson AFB. Deployers
   should not take their TLD badge with them on their deployment. Instead, deployers should
   notify the Bioenvironmental Engineering unit at their deployed location as soon as they learn
   of their deployment so that the deployer can be enrolled in the dosimetry program at their
   deployed location as soon as possible.
   9.5. Thermoluminescent Dosimeter (TLD) Action Levels:                The Bioenvironmental
   Engineering Flight will review all TLD results for each work area. The RSO will establish
   ALARA action levels for each monitored area dependent upon frequency and exposure
   potential of radiation duties. Investigations of overexposures or abnormal exposures will be
   conducted when dosimetry results indicate they are warranted.
   9.6. Accident and Overexposure Reporting Procedures: All accidents and overexposures to
   ionizing radiation will be reported to the installation RSO. The installation RSO will initiate
   action to investigate the alleged incident IAW AFMAN 48-125. Results of the investigation
   must be documented and filed accordingly. Medical exams will be arranged by the Public
   Health Flight. All results will be reported to the individual, the shop supervisor, unit
   commander, Aerospace Medicine Council, and HQ ACC as appropriate.
10. REVIEW OF RADIATION FACILITY/SOURCE INSTALLATION PLANS.
   10.1. Review of Construction and Facility Maintenance. All plans for modification of
   facilities or design of new facilities which involve the use of radioactive material or radiation
   producing devices must be reviewed by the unit/installation RSO to assure that ALARA is
   considered.
   10.2. Procedures. The user will notify the RSOs in writing of all changes and modifications,
   plans to procure and install new or replacement equipment, etc.
11. NON-AIR FORCE ORGANIZATION USE OF RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL ON
SEYMOUR JOHNSON AFB. Prior to any non-Air Force organization use of RAM on
Seymour Johnson AFB, the non-Air Force organization must obtain written approval from the
Installation RSO at least 30 days in advance of RAM arrival on base. For contractors, the
requirements must be included in the contract or statement of work. Written approval is
considered and may be granted once the following information is provided to the Installation
RSO (4 AMDS/SGGB at 722-5401):
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI48-101 2 MAY 2012                                                            11


  11.1. All requests must be in writing.
  11.2. A brief description of proposed activities.
  11.3. Evidence of a valid NRC or Agreement State Radioactive Material License.
  11.4. A copy of an NRC Form 241, Report of Proposed Activities in Non-Agreement States,
  Areas of Exclusive or a similar document, listing the specific licensable items and their use
  locations. The license must either specifically list the installation or grant approval for work
  at temporary job sites anywhere in the United States where the NRC or Agreement State has
  jurisdiction. EXCEPTION: Contractors using generally licensed materials (e.g. certain
  NITON Lead Paint Analyzers) and Department of Energy (DoE) or DoE prime contractors
  operating in accordance with 10 CFR Part 835 do not require an NRC license or NRC Form
  241 for Natural and Accelerator-produced Radioactive Materials.
  11.5. Proof of a valid Air Force contract with inclusive dates of work.
  11.6. The name, local address, and telephone number for the responsible local representative
  and the name, address, and telephone number of the RSO named on their license.
  11.7. An acknowledgement that the installation RSO can make periodic checks to ensure
  that contractor personnel follow radiation safety practices to prevent exposures to Air Force
  personnel and avoid contamination of government property. In addition, the installation RSO
  must have authority to suspend contractor operations believed to be unsafe.
  11.8. Agreement State licensees using NRC regulated materials must supply a copy of the
  NRC Form 241 approved by the installation’s NRC region according to 10 CFR Part 150.20.
  The form must specify the correct locations and dates of performance of licensed activities.
  State licensees may not work on Air Force or other installations where exclusive federal
  jurisdiction exists for more than 180 calendar days per calendar year without first getting an
  NRC license.
  11.9. Non-Air Force organizations that do not have an NRC or Agreement State License
  with current NRC Form 241 and who are not DoE or DoE prime contractors exempted from
  Licensing must contact AFMOA/SGPR for guidance and approval to use RAM on an Air
  Force installation.




                                            PATRICK J. DOHERTY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 12                                        SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI48-101 2 MAY 2012


                                     ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation, 21 Sep 2011
AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force, 16 Mar 2011
AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry, 4 Oct 2011
AFOSH Standard 48-9, Electro-Magnetic Frequency (EMF) Radiation Occupational Health
Program, 14 Dec 2011
AFOSH Standard 48-139, LASER Radiation Protection Program, 10 Dec 1999
T.O. 00-110N Series, Safety and Control Requirements in the Radiation Field
10 CFR, Energy
21 CFR, Food and Drugs
49 CFR, Transportation
Department of Defense Instruction (DODI) 6055.8, Occupational Radiation Protection
Program, 6 May 1996
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 Sep 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 190, Occupational Illness/Injury Report
AFTO Form 9B, Caution Radioactive Material
NRC Form 241, Report of Proposed Activities in Non-Agreement States, Areas of Exclusive
Federal Jurisdiction, or Offshore Waters

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ALARA—As Low As Reasonably Achievable
BEF—Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
DoE—Department of Energy
DRMO—Defense Reutilization Management Office
NRC—Nuclear Regulatory Commission
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RAM—Radioactive Material
SEYMOURJOHNSONAFBI48-101 2 MAY 2012   13


RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RFR—Radio Frequency Radiation
RSO—Radiation Safety Officer
TLD—Thermoluminescent Dosimeter
