BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         SHAW AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
SHAW AIR FORCE BASE                                                         91-207

                                                                          10 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                        Safety

                                                SHAW AFB TRAFFIC SAFETY PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: 20 FW/SE                                         Certified by: 20 FW/SE (Lt Col Scott W.
                                                                                     Walker)
                                                                                     Pages: 4
Supersedes:   SHAWAFBI91-207, 25
              January 2005


This publication implements policy and guidance in Air Force Policy Directive 91-2, Safety
Programs, Air Force Instruction 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Contact supporting records managers as required. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s to 20 FW/SE, 517 Lance Ave,
Shaw AFB, SC 29152-5041; route through your appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include the definition of Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances and requirements for
unit purchase. Identifies Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances use and non-use areas.
Clarifies Land Mobile Radio (LMR) use and defines requirements for non hands-free device use.
Defines brightly colored and reflective clothing requirements for motorcycle operators.
Encourages Commanders to limit the size of motorcycles ridden by new riders for their first six
months of riding. Establishes time requirements for obtaining the Air Combat Command (ACC)
Form 15, ACC Motorcycle Trained decal. Highlights requirements for personnel exposed to
vehicular traffic. Establishes the requirement for the 20th Fighter Wing Safety Staff to
 2                                                      SHAWAFBI91-207 10 OCTOBER 2012


periodically conduct distracted driving checks (i.e. cell phone, texting, ect.) and motorcycle
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) checks.
1. Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances
     1.1. Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances are vehicles that do not meet the
     definition of Government Motor Vehicles, Government Vehicles Others, All Terrain
     Vehicles, Motorcycles, or Low-Speed Vehicles and are not in full compliance with the
     Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard. Prior to units purchasing Other Government Motor
     Vehicle Conveyances , the 20 FW Ground Safety Office will review each purchase request in
     accordance with AF Pamphlet 91-210, Contract Safety, paragraph 7.1.4.
        1.1.1. Use will be restricted to roads with a speed limit of 30 miles per hour or less.
        Prior to operating Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances on the roadways, a
        written Operational Risk Management evaluation and worksheet (ACC Form 167, ACC
        Operational Risk Management worksheet), will be conducted and meet the minimum
        requirements outlined in AFI 91-207. As a minimum, the ORM worksheet will be signed
        by the squadron CC. Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances will not be
        operated on Shaw Drive; Frierson Road; Patrol Road; Lance Ave or Sweeney Road
        during the hours of 0645-0800 and 1545-1700. If mission essential requirements dictate
        Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances be utilized on the above named roads
        during the above listed hours, the squadron CC will ensure a Government Motor Vehicle
        (sedan or truck) accompanies and provides escort services to the Other Government
        Motor Vehicle Conveyance. Both the Government Motor Vehicle and the Other
        Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances will travel in the right hand lane (if available)
        and will activate the vehicle flashers to increase visibility.
2. Land Mobile Radio /Cell Phone Use
     2.1. Vehicle operators of government owned, leased, or rented vehicles on and off Shaw
     AFB are permitted to use issued Land Mobile Radios while the vehicle is in motion for the
     performance of their prescribed duties. Prior to using Land Mobile Radios in this manner,
     the vehicle operator will evaluate the operating environment to ensure it is safe to do so.
     Vehicle operators of government owned, leased, or rented vehicles on and off Shaw AFB
     will find a safe location and place their vehicle in park when using a non hands-free device
     (cell phones or any other devices used only in push-to-talk walkie-talkie, direct connection)
     mode. Privately Owned Vehicle operators on Shaw AFB will find a safe location and place
     their vehicle in park when using a non hands-free device (cell phones or any other devices
     used only in push-to-talk walkie-talkie, direct connection) mode. Privately Owned Vehicle
     operators off base are highly encouraged to make every effort to find a safe location and
     place their vehicle in park when using a non hands-free device.
3. Motorcycle Requirements
     3.1. For the purposes of this supplement, day is defined as after official sunrise and night is
     defined as after official sunset. A reflective belt alone does not meet the motorcycle rider
     reflective visibility requirements outlined in AFI 91-207. Additionally, no military uniform
     combination meets the brightly colored upper outer garment requirements outlined in AFI
     91-207 for motorcycle operations. Brightly colored is defined as sufficiently vivid in
     color/reflectivity to ensure visibility from a distance (i.e. red, orange, yellow, etc.).
SHAWAFBI91-207 10 OCTOBER 2012                                                                      3


      3.1.1. Commanders will encourage all new 20 FW and Air Force Tenant motorcycle
      riders (defined as having less than 12 months riding experience) to limit the size of the
      motorcycles they ride to 500ccs or less for their first six months of riding. After six
      months, Commanders will encourage riders to take the Experienced Riders Course. The
      course will be funded by the 20 FW Safety Office at no cost to the member.
      3.1.2. Air Combat Command active duty military and Department of Defense civilians
      assigned to Shaw AFB, upon completing the required Motorcycle Safety Foundation
      Basic Rider Course and/or the Experienced Riders Course, are required to sign for and be
      issued the ACC Form 15 decal no later than 30 days after completion of training. Riders
      will bring their course completion card, license, registration and proof of insurance to the
      20 FW Safety Office for issuance of the ACC Form 15. All riders will carry their
      motorcycle course completion card, or a copy of the card on their person at all times
      when operating their motorcycle on Shaw AFB.
4. Exposure to Vehicular Traffic
   4.1. Personnel are encouraged to use the various running trails on Shaw AFB instead of
   roadways for the purposes of physical training or exercise. Unit formation runs are
   authorized on the following roadways: Chapin; Campbell; and Aiken. The unit will
   complete a written risk assessment, utilizing an ACC Form 167, and forward the risk
   assessment to the Wing Safety office not later than one week before the proposed run for
   review. After the review, the Wing Safety Office will work with the event point of contact to
   address any additional questions or concerns. Unit formation runs will utilize road guards
   when crossing any roads. Unit formation runs will not be authorized during the hours of
   0645-0800 and 1545-1700 Monday-Friday.
      4.1.1. All military and Department of Defense civilian personnel who are exposed to
      vehicular traffic (running; jogging; walking, etc.) will wear reflective clothing or devices
      (such as a reflective belt), that is visible from all angles during the hours of official sunset
      to official sunrise and reduced visibility (such as inclement weather to include fog, rain,
      sleet, snow, etc.). Dependent personnel who are exposed to vehicular traffic are strongly
      encouraged to wear reflective clothing or devices (such as a reflective belt), that is visible
      from all angles during the hours of official sunset to official sunrise and reduced visibility
      (such as inclement weather to include fog, rain, sleet, snow, etc.). When on roadways
      without a sidewalk, personnel will walk opposite the direction of vehicle traffic. Bicycle
      riders will travel in the same direction as vehicle traffic and follow ALL Rules of the
      Road.
5. Distracted Driving and Motorcycle Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Checks
   5.1. In addition to seatbelt checks, the 20 FW Safety Staff will periodically conduct
   distracted driving checks (i.e. cell phone, texting, etc.) and motorcycle PPE checks.




                                             CLAY W. HALL, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 4                                                  SHAWAFBI91-207 10 OCTOBER 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 28 September 1993
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 27 October 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPAM 91-210, Contract Safety, 14 February 1994
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms are implemented by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
ACC Form 15, ACC Motorcycle Trained
ACC Form167, ACC Operational Risk Management Worksheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACC—Air Combat Command
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPAM—Air Force Pamphlet
AFRIMS—AF Records Information Management System
LMR—Land Mobile Radio
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
