BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      SHAW AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 44-102
SHAW AFB
                                                                        28 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                      Medical

                                                    CIVILIAN DRUG TESTING PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 20 MDOS/SGOW                                         Certified by: 20 MDG/CC (Col Dean
                                                                                    Borsos)
Supersedes:   SHAWAFBI 44-102, 8                                                    Pages: 9
              September 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 44-1, Medical Operations. It
establishes procedures for selection, collection, and shipment of specimens collected from
Department of Defense (DoD) civilian employees. It applies to all personnel assigned to the
20th Fighter Wing Drug Demand Reduction Program (DDRP). This instruction requires
collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title
10, U.S.C., Section 8013, System of Records Notice, F033 AF B, Privacy Act Request Files,
applies.” Comply with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, for
documents containing Privacy Act Information. For Official Use Only information, comply with
DoDD 5400.07, DOD Freedom of Information Act Program. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records. Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records
managers as required.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s to 20 MDOS/SGOW, 431 Meadowlark Street, Shaw AFB, SC 29152-5019; route
through your appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                                         SHAWAFBI44-102 28 November 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has undergone minor revisions to maintain concordance with AFI 44-107, Air
Force Civilian Drug Demand Reduction Program. Minor revisions include references,
formatting, and grammar. The only significant change is the collection of urine requirement
from 30 mL to 45 mL.
1. Principle.
     1.1. The civilian drug testing program differs from the active duty drug testing program in
     several important aspects. The civilian drug testing program must follow guidelines
     established by the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) as outlined in DHHS
     Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Programs and DHHS Urine
     Specimen Collection Handbook. The active duty drug testing program follows AFI and DoD
     guidelines. Differences include the following:
     1.2. Civilian drug test specimens will be tested by US Army Forensic Toxicology Drug
     Testing Laboratory at Ft Meade. This laboratory meets and exceeds DHHS guidelines for
     testing. Civilian drug specimens cannot be sent to the Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory
     (AFDTL). AFDTL is not authorized to test civilian drug specimens.
     1.3. Civilians are allowed to produce the urine specimen in privacy. However, under certain
     circumstances direct observation may be authorized (see AFI 44-107, paragraph 1.18.).
     1.4. The appointed Medical Review Officer (MRO) is required to review all positive
     laboratory results prior to reporting the results to the Drug Demand Reduction Program
     Manager (DDRPM).
2. Selection Procedures For Random Inspection Testing Using AFDTP.
     2.1. Air Force Drug Testing Program (AFDTP) is updated monthly with a current roster of
     civilians assigned to Testing Drug Positions (TDP). Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF) will
     contact DDRPM or Drug Testing Program Administrative Manager (DTPAM) with an
     updated TDP roster.
     2.2. DTPAM will use the list to update the civilian drug testing pool. Using the Air Force
     Drug Testing software, the DTPAM will select days for civilian testing. The DTPAM
     ensures the identity of employees selected, along with the dates and times of testing, is secure
     to ensure confidentiality.
     2.3. Upon completion of the selection process a list will be printed.
     2.4. Notification for random testing will be the same day the test is scheduled. Upon
     notification, the selected employee must report for testing within two hours.
     2.5. The employee may be deferred for testing if on leave status (e.g., sick, annual,
     administrative, or leave without pay), official travel status away from the test site (e.g., in the
     field), TDY, or on designated time off.
     2.6. An employee whose drug test is deferred will be subject to testing upon return to duty.
3. Urine Collection Procedures.
SHAWAFBI44-102 28 November 2012                                                                   3


  3.1. DTPAM or designee in coordination with the unit‟s trusted agent arranges with the
  employee‟s supervisor notification of testing. DTPAM will e-mail or fax the trusted agent
  who will notify the supervisor of the selected members.
  3.2. Testing categories include random, reasonable suspicion, applicant testing, accident or
  mishap testing, voluntary and follow-up to rehabilitation testing.
  3.3. DTPAM is responsible for ensuring that urine specimens for drug testing are collected
  under DHHS guidelines, proper chain of custody procedures are followed during collection,
  and specimens are properly mailed to the testing laboratory. Security of these testing
  procedures will be maintained by DDR staff.
  3.4. DTPAM will ensure adequate testing support personnel are available as well as
  adequate restroom facilities for specimen collection. Civilian employees/applicants will be
  authorized privacy during collection, so facilities with enclosed toilet spaces (stalls) are
  appropriate, as are private bathrooms (bluing agents will be poured in toilets to prevent and
  identify specimen contamination).
  3.5. DTPAM will ensure that supplies of civilian drug testing kits and chain of custody
  forms are available. Kits will be obtained from US Army Forensic Toxicology Drug Testing
  Laboratory. Kits will be identified as „for civilian drug testing use only‟. All specimens
  will require the Federal Drug Testing Custody and Control Form (FDTCCF).
  3.6. DTPAM will verify the identification of the employee. The donor must provide
  appropriate identification to the DTPAM upon arrival at the collection site. Acceptable
  forms of identification include:
     3.6.1. Photo identification (e.g., driver‟s license, employee badge, AF civilian ID card).
     3.6.2. Identification by an agency representative.
         3.6.2.1. If the donor cannot satisfy the identification requirement, the DTPAM may
         proceed with the collection if the donor can provide two items of identification
         bearing his or her signature. After the donor signs the certification statement, the
         DTPAM should compare the donor‟s signature with the signatures on the
         identification that were presented. If the signatures match, the DTPAM lists on the
         “Remarks” line the two items of identification used to verify the donor and writes
         “signature identification confirmed”. The DTPAM will continue with the collection
         process. If the signature does not match the two items of identification, the DTPAM
         will write on the “Remarks” line “signature identification is not confirmed”. DTPAM
         will discontinue the collection and notify the DDRPM immediately.
         3.6.2.2. In situations where the donor does not have either photo identification or two
         other appropriate items of identification, the DTPAM may proceed with the collection
         and document sufficient information on the “Remarks” line to aid the MRO in
         making a determination regarding the validity of the specimen and the collection
         process.
         3.6.2.3. If the donor asks the DTPAM to provide identification, the DTPAM must
         show the donor appropriate identification to include the Common Access Card (CAC-
         military or civilian).
4                                                      SHAWAFBI44-102 28 November 2012


    3.7. DTPAM will obtain the letter of order from the employee and annotate the time reported
    for testing, along with the time the employee was notified. If the supervisor did not annotate
    the time of notification, the DTPAM call the employee‟s supervisor to obtain the time of
    notification and annotate on the letter.
    3.8. The DTPAM will have the employee „sign in‟ on the Civilian Drug Urinalysis Ledger.
    The following information is required:
       3.8.1. Date.
       3.8.2. Specimen number (from the FDTCCF).
       3.8.3. Employee/applicant‟s printed name.
       3.8.4. Employee/applicant‟s Social Security Number (SSN).
    3.9. DTPAM will complete Step 1 of the FDTCCF by entering:
       3.9.1. The social security number (SSN) of the civilian employee/applicant.
       3.9.2. The complete address of the employer (may be pre-printed on the FDTCCF).
       3.9.3. The complete address of the MRO (may be pre-printed on the FDTCCF).
       3.9.4. The “Reason for Test”.
       3.9.5. The “Drug Tests to be Performed” by checking the “Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),
       Cocaine (COC), Phencyclidine (PCP), Opiate (OPI), Amphetamine (AMP)” block.
       NOTE: All entries should be made in a medium point blue or black ball point pen and
       should be written firmly to ensure all copies are legible.
    3.10. The employee/applicant also verifies all information, signs, and initials under the
    printed name on the Civilian Drug Testing Register.
    3.11. If the employee/applicant refuses testing or refuses to cooperate at any time, the
    DTPAM should contact the DDRPM or DDR OIC.
    3.12. If direct observation is indicated, the “Observed” block will be marked in Step 2 on the
    FDTCCF.
    3.13. DTPAM will state, “Coats and other outer garments must be removed prior to
    specimen collection.” Purses, briefcases, packages, or other containers may not be carried
    into the collection area without direct observation.
    3.14. In the presence of the employee/applicant, the DTPAM will open the drug testing kit
    and remove the contents.
    3.15. DTPAM directly hands the wide-mouth collection container to the employee/applicant
    and keeps the FDTCCF, shipping bottles, and label during the time when the
    employee/applicant and the escort/observer are absent during the actual collection.
    3.16. If direct observation is not required, the DTPAM:
       3.16.1. Escort/observer directs the employee/applicant to empty the pockets and display
       the items to ensure that no items can be used to adulterate the specimen.
           3.16.1.1. If no items can be used to adulterate the specimen, the donor places the
           items back into the pockets and the collection procedure continues.
SHAWAFBI44-102 28 November 2012                                                                5


         3.16.1.2. If an item is found that appears to have been brought to the collection site
         with the intent to adulterate the specimen, a direct observation collection procedure is
         used.
         3.16.1.3. If an item appears to be inadvertently brought to the collection site, the
         escort/observer secures the item and continues with the normal collection procedure.
     3.16.2. Escort/observer walks the employee/applicant to the collection site and instructs
     the individual to wash their hands with water only and dry hands with paper towels prior
     to urination. This will prevent possible contamination of the specimen.
     3.16.3. DTPAM directs the donor to provide a specimen of at least 45 milliliters (mL),
     not to flush the toilet, and return with the specimen as soon as possible after completing
     the void.
     3.16.4. Employee/applicant provides the specimen in privacy.
  3.17. When direct observation is required, the DTPAM will designate an escort/observer of
  the same gender as the person providing the specimen. The escort may be an individual from
  the same organization as the employee/applicant being tested, but cannot be providing a
  specimen for testing on the same day. The observer will:
     3.17.1. Escort employee to the collection site.
     3.17.2. Ensure the employee washes their hands with water only and then dries hands
     with paper towels.
     3.17.3. Directly observe the employee urinating into the wide-mouth specimen cup.
     Employee must provide at least 45 mL of urine.
  3.18. DTPAM, in the presence of the employee (and escort if necessary), receives the
  specimen bottle from the employee, checks for alterations and ensures the bottle contains 45
  mL or more of urine. If the specimen bottle contains the minimum amount of urine, the
  DTPAM will proceed with the collection process. Upon receiving a specimen container that
  does not contain at least 45 mL:
     3.18.1. DTPAM instructs the employee to empty out all contents into the toilet and crush
     the wide mouth container. The empty bottles are returned to the DTPAM for disposal.
     3.18.2. DTPAM will instruct the employee to drink fluids to provide another specimen.
     After a reasonable amount of time the employee may again attempt to provide a urine
     specimen using a bottle from a new drug testing kit. The new drug testing kit will be
     opened at the time of the second attempt. NOTE: If the donor fails for any reason to
     provide 45 mL of urine for the second specimen collected, the DTPAM will immediately
     contact the DDRPM or DDR OIC.
  3.19. After an adequate specimen is collected, the DTPAM in the presence of the employee
  will measure the temperature immediately using the measuring strip on side of container
  (must be completed within 4 minutes of collection). The DTPAM will mark whether the
  specimen is between 90 and 100 degrees Fahrenheit on Step 2 of the FDTCCF. NOTE: If
  the temperature is outside the acceptable range, a second set of specimens are collected under
  direct observation and both set of specimens are sent to the laboratory for testing. The
6                                                     SHAWAFBI44-102 28 November 2012


    DTPAM must use a separate FDTCCF for each set of specimens and provide documentation
    on each FDTCCF to indicate why two sets of specimens were collected.
    3.20. In the presence of the employee the DTPAM will:
       3.20.1. Print the name of the escort/observer in the “Remarks” line of Step 2. When the
       DTPAM also acts as the escort/observer, the DTPAM‟s name should be entered as such.
       A check will be placed in the box indicating it was a split specimen that was collected.
       3.20.2. DTPAM will transfer the specimen from the wide mouth container to the
       shipping bottles. DTPAM will ensure the lid is secured on both bottles.
    3.21. DTPAM will date the labels. The employee/applicant will initial the labels after being
    applied over the top of the shipping bottles.
    3.22. DTPAM will ensure the employee/applicant completes the certification in step 5, Copy
    2, of the FDTCCF labeled “Medical Review Officer Copy.” The employee/applicant will
    provide a daytime phone number (e.g., the MRO needs to contact the employee for
    verification of drug tests results). DHSS policy instructs that information concerning an
    employee‟s use of prescription or over-the-counter drugs should not be obtained at the time
    of collection. The employee will be advised that there will be an opportunity to provide this
    type of information to the MRO if a subsequent interview is required.
    3.23. DTPAM completes the chain of custody on the FDTCCF, step 4, by printing his or her
    name, signing as required, recording date and time of collection, and indicating the specific
    name of the delivery service to which the specimen bottle is being released.
    3.24. DTPAM reviews the FDTCCF and ensures that all required information is present.
    The complete address of the MRO and the complete address and phone number of the
    collection site must be entered to ensure results are returned to the correct location.
    3.25. DTPAM will remove Copy 1 (original) of the FDTCCF and place it inside the
    appropriate pouch that accompanies the specimen collected.
    3.26. DTPAM will seal the pouch containing the specimens and FDTCCF and then place the
    civilian sticker on the pouch.
    3.27. DTPAM will place the sealed pouch inside of the box from the US Army Forensic
    Toxicology Drug Testing Lab. This box will be placed in an appropriate FedEx mailing
    package. The FedEx package will be sealed and mailed.
    3.28. DTPAM in the presence of the employee separates the remaining copies of the
    FDTCCF and distributes the remaining copies of the FDTCCF as follows:
       3.28.1. The copy labeled “DONOR COPY” will be given to the employee/applicant.
       3.28.2. The copy labeled “MEDICAL REVIEW OFFICER” will be forwarded to the
       MRO.
       3.28.3. The copy labeled “COLLECTOR COPY” will be filed in a secure location. This
       copy becomes part of the permanent record and will be filed in the DTPAM‟s office.
       3.28.4. The copy labeled “EMPLOYER COPY” will be forwarded to the supervisor.
SHAWAFBI44-102 28 November 2012                                                                7


       3.28.5. After the paperwork has been processed appropriately and given to employee, the
       testing process is complete.
   3.29. DTPAM will print the FedEx shipping label and place on the package if pre-paid labels
   are not available.
   3.30. DTPAM will contact FedEx for pick-up using designated ground shipping account.
   Packages may also be placed in a FedEx drop box.
   3.31. The laboratory will receive specimens, process all specimens under the chain of
   custody, refrigerate all specimens not tested within seven days, provide rapid turnaround,
   forward test results directly to the MRO, and submit to quality assurance inspections by
   Human Systems Division (HSD). When testing cannot be completed due to collection
   discrepancies or chain of custody procedures:
       3.31.1. The laboratory personnel will call the DTPAM and report any discrepancies.
       3.31.2. DTPAM will obtain the SSN, sample number, reason for testing (e.g., random,
       probable cause, applicant, etc.), and discrepancy (e.g., chain of custody problems, etc.)
       from the laboratory personnel.
       3.31.3. DTPAM will call the DDRPM and provide the above information.
       3.31.4. The DDRPM will determine if retesting is required.
       3.31.5. If re-testing is required, the DTPAM will coordinate testing with the individual‟s
       supervisor.
4. Failure To Appear For Testing Or Late Reporting (exceeded 2-hour notification): If an
individual fails to appear for testing or has exceeded the 2-hour notification time limit, the
DTPAM will notify the DDRPM immediately. The supervisor and the CPF liaison will be
notified. Failure to appear for testing without a deferral will be considered a refusal to
participate in testing. All 2-hour notification failures will be investigated by the immediate
supervisor, who will then report the results to the DDRPM, CPF and Staff Judge Advocate (SJA)
for review.
5. Test Results.
   5.1. When the MRO verifies a positive test, the DDRPM will immediately notify the
   employee‟s squadron commander, supervisor and the Civilian Personnel Liaison for potential
   personnel action as outlined in Department of Defense Directive 1010.9, . For further
   guidance on reporting test results, please contact the DDRPM.




                                            CLAY W. HALL, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 8                                                   SHAWAFBI44-102 28 November 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 10, U.S.C., Section 8013, System of Records Notice, F033 AF B, Privacy Act Request Files
Executive Order 12564, Drug-free Federal Workplace, 15 September 1986
Department of Health and Human Services Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug
Testing Programs, 1 October 2010
Department of Health and Human Services Urine Specimen Collection Handbook for the New
Federal Drug Testing Custody and Control Form (OMB Number 0930-0158, current version)
DoDD 1010.9, DoD Civilian Employee Drug-Free Workplace Program, 22 June 2012
DoDD 5400.07, Freedom of Information Act Program, 2 January 2008
AFI 44-107, Air Force Civilian Drug Demand Reduction Program, 7 April 2010
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms are implemented by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDTP—Air Force Drug Testing Program
AFDTL—Air Force Drug Testing Laboratory
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—AF Records Information Management System
AMP—Amphetamine
CAC—Common Access Card
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
COC—Cocaine
DHHS—Department of Health and Human Services
DoD/DOD—Department of Defense
SHAWAFBI44-102 28 November 2012                        9


DDRP—Drug Demand Reduction Program
DDRPM—Drug Demand Reduction Program Manager
DTPAM—Drug Testing Program Administrative Manager
FDTCCF—Federal Drug Testing Custody and Control Form
IAW—In Accordance With
mL—Milliliter
MRO—Medical Review Officer
OPI—Opiate
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCP—Phencyclidine
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
SSN—Social Security Number
THC—Tetrahydrocannabinol
TDP—Testing Drug Positions
