                         DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                   20TH FIGHTER WING (ACC)
                             SHAW AIR FORCE BASE SOUTH CAROLINA




                                                                       SHAWAFBGM2014-33-01

                                                                                20 November 2014

MEMORANDUM FOR ALL 20 FW PERSONNEL AND ASSOCIATED TENANT UNITS

FROM: 20 FW/CC
      517 Lance Ave, Suite 128
      Shaw AFB SC 29152

SUBJECT: Shaw Air Force Base Guidance Memorandum to AFI 33-332, The Air Force
         Privacy and Civil Liberties Program


        1. By order of the Commander, 20th Fighter Wing (20 FW), this guidance memorandum
directs implementation of policies and procedures for Privacy Act compliance within the 20 FW
and associated tenant units. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. Failure to
comply with this guidance memorandum may be punishable by the UCMJ or civil equivalent.
To the extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications, the information in
AFI 33-332 prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 to 20 CS/SCOKR, 504 Shaw Drive, Suite 1046, Shaw AFB SC 29152-5028;
route through your appropriate functional chain of command.

         2. Adherence to the Privacy Act and protecting Personally Identifiable Information (PII)
is the responsibility of every federal employee, military member, and contractor assigned to the
20 FW and associated tenant units. The wing and associated tenants will foster and maintain a
culture of compliance with respect to the Privacy Act and safeguarding PII.

        3. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this memorandum
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers as
required.
         4. The guidance in this memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the
date of the memorandum or upon release of a publication incorporating the guidance, whichever
is earlier. For questions, contact the Wing Privacy Act Manager.




                                                  STEPHEN F. JOST, Colonel, USAF
                                                  Commander


Attachment(s):
Responsibilities
3. Responsibilities.

3.1. The Wing Privacy Act Manager shall:

3.1.1. Brief base leadership at least annually on the Privacy Act.

3.1.2. Brief base leadership at least annually on Privacy Act/PII training completion rates.

3.1.3. Develop and maintain current training resources for use by organizational commanders
and others.

3.2. Organizational commanders and equivalents shall:

3.2.1. Ensure all personnel complete Privacy Act/PII training annually. Commanders have
flexibility in the format (Commander’s Call briefing, computer-based training (CBT), etc.);
however, all training must be reviewed and approved by the Wing Privacy Act Manager to
ensure it is current and accurate.

3.2.1.1. Ensure Privacy Act/PII training completion rates are reported to the Wing Privacy Act
Manager at least annually.

3.2.2. Appoint in writing a primary and alternate unit Privacy Act Monitor.

3.2.2.1. Provide a copy of the appointment letter to the Wing Privacy Act Manager.

3.2.2.2. Review the appointment letter at least annually to ensure it is up-to-date.

3.2.3. Address all PII breaches in accordance with the breach reporting process outlined in AFI
33-332 and paragraph 4 of this guidance memorandum.

4. The primary intent of this program is to safeguard private and/or personal information. Any
breach of such information requires prompt and direct action to identify the root cause, eliminate
reoccurrence, and to hold the violator accountable for their actions. Commanders must be made
aware of all PII breaches and will consider each PII breach on a case-by-case basis to determine
appropriate action. When determining actions to be taken, commanders should assess whether
the breach was inadvertent, negligent, or malicious and whether there were previous offenses.

4.1. First Offense: At a minimum, the offender and his/her immediate supervisor shall complete
the PII CBT located at http://iase.disa.mil/eta/piiv2/launchpage.htm and Information Protection
training located on the Advanced Distributed Learning Services (ADLS) web site. The unit
Privacy Act Monitor will track and document the training in the PII breach file.

4.2. Second Offense: At a minimum, the offender and his/her immediate supervisor shall
reaccomplish the PII CBT located at http://iase.disa.mil/eta/piiv2/launchpage.htm and
Information Protection training located on the ADLS web site. The unit Privacy Act Monitor
will track and document the training in the PII breach file. A letter signed by the member’s unit
commander certifying that the training has been accomplished must accompany the PII breach
report sent to the group commander. Commanders must consider whether additional action is
warranted.

4.3. For third and subsequent offenses: Commanders shall choose an action that properly
reflects the importance of safeguarding PII and the fact that this is the member’s third (or more)
offense.
