BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       SHAW AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 34-
SHAW AFB                                                                       239

                                                                           18 NOVEMBER 2014

                                                                                          Services

                                                             FOOD SERVICE MANAGEMENT
                                                                             PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 20 FSS/FSV                                                          Certified by: 20 FSS/CC
                                                                          (Lt Col Tara E. White)
                                                                                          Pages: 5




This instruction implements AFI 34-239, Food Service Management Program, Attachment 3,
Use of Air Force APF Dining Facilities, dated 20 February 2004. This publication applies to all
military and civilian personnel that may be authorized to dine in the military dining facilities on
Shaw AFB, SC. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System      (AFRIMS)        Records      Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)        located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Contact supporting records managers
as required. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s to 20 FSS/FSV, 504 Shaw Drive Suite, 2125, Shaw AFB, SC
29152; route through your appropriate functional chain of command.
 2                                                   SHAWAFBI34-239 18 NOVEMBER 2014




1. The Air Force operates Appropriated Fund (APF) enlisted dining facilities in order to
provide the subsistence entitlement to enlisted members who reside in dormitories, to provide a
training environment for food service personnel to meet our war-fighting mission, and to provide
flight meal service in support of daily operations. Generally, use of dining facilities is restricted
to enlisted members and those individuals authorized by the installation commander to meet
mission requirements.      AFI 34-239, Attachment 9 lists the meal rates for the following
customers and other situations where it is appropriate for the installation commander to authorize
other customers to eat meals in the dining facility. Meal rate charges are determined by the
Under Secretary of Defense, Comptroller (USD/C) and are published annually. All waivers to
meal charges must be approved by USD/C.
2. Enlisted Members:
     2.1. Enlisted members who are essential station messing (ESM) are authorized to use the
     dining facility at no charge.
     2.2. Enlisted members who receive Basic Allowance for Subsistence (BAS) are authorized
     to use the dining facility as a cash-paying customer.
     2.3. Enlisted members receiving the meal portion of per diem are authorized to use the
     dining facility as a cash-paying customer.
3. Officers:
     3.1. Permanent party officers are not authorized to use the enlisted dining facility except as
     provided below. The installation commander may authorize officers to eat meals in the
     dining facility after determining other facilities, including non-appropriated funds (NAF)
     food activities, base exchange cafeteria and base restaurant, are not available, adequate, or
     readily accessible to the duty station.
     3.2. Officers receiving a meal portion of per diem are authorized to use the dining facility
     when the authorization is included in the TDY orders by the orders authorizing official.
     Officers may only be authorized to use the dining facility at locations where the installation
     commander has determined government meals are available for Department of Defense
     (DoD) TDY travelers. Locations where government meals are available to TDY travelers are
     listed in AFMAN 34-102, Directory of Government Quarters and Dining Facilities.
     3.3. Individuals that fall into the group known as “Rebound Echo” are permitted to eat in the
     dining facility while TDY to Shaw Air Force Base.
4. Civilians:
     4.1. Generally, permanent party DoD civilians are not authorized to use the enlisted dining
     facility. The installation commander may authorize DoD civilians to eat meals in the dining
     facility after determining other facilities, including NAF food activities, The Exchange food
     court, and base restaurant, are not available, adequate, or readily accessible to the duty
     location.
     4.2. DoD civilians receiving a meal portion of per diem are authorized to use the dining
     facility upon presentation of their TDY orders. Civilians may only use the dining facility at
SHAWAFBI34-239 18 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                     3


   locations where the installation commander has determined government meals to be available
   to DoD TDY travelers.
5. Dependent family members of military personnel. Generally, dependent family members
of military personnel are not authorized to use the enlisted dining facility. When family
members of military personnel E1-E4 are authorized to eat in the enlisted dining facility, they are
charged the discount meal rate (food cost only). The installation commander may authorize
family members of military members and family members of DoD civilians assigned overseas to
eat meals in the dining facility after determining other facilities, including NAF food activities,
base exchange cafeteria and base restaurant, are not available or adequate.
6. Retirees. The installation commander has the authority to allow retirees to use the enlisted
dining facility. When making such a decision, the installation commander should consider the
capability of the dining facility, the service impact on delivering the subsistence entitlement to
active duty enlisted members, and the service impact on Temporary Duty (TDY) travelers.
Where such permission does not degrade our ability to serve our primary customers, use of the
enlisted dining facility may be granted.
7. Exceptions. The installation commander has the authorized the following individuals to eat
in the dining facility:
   7.1. Alert crews and DoD civilian aircrew members are authorized to eat in the dining
   facility while on TDY orders.
   7.2. Active duty and retired military members of all US Armed Forces and their families are
   authorized to eat in the dining facility during federal holidays and September 18, the Air
   Force birthday.
   7.3. Reserve Officer Training Corps, Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps cadets and the
   Boy Scouts of America are authorized to eat at the dining facility during official base tours.
   7.4. Commanders and officers are authorized to eat in the dining facility to determine the
   quality and quantity of food served.
8. Dining attire. The goal of our food service professionals is to provide superior, nutritious
meals to all guests in a pleasing and healthy environment.
   8.1. All civilian attire will be of good taste, free of obscenities, and of an inoffensive nature.
   8.2. The use of cell phones, head phones, Bluetooth, or any other electronic devices while
   waiting in line is prohibited with the exception of use for official business.
   8.3. Shirts/blouses must cover the mid-section and may not be sleeveless.
   8.4. Sleeping attire to include pajama pants and bedroom slippers are not authorized.
   8.5. Sweaty work out attire will not to be worn.
   8.6. All hats, scarves, and bandannas must be removed before entering the facility.
9. Carry-out Containers: Carry-out containers provided by the dining facility are authorized
only for ESM personnel and on-duty first responders. Cash-paying customers are authorized to
bring in their own containers. The containers must be clean and sanitized.
   9.1. Patrons will go through the serving line as normal to obtain their meal.
4                                                    SHAWAFBI34-239 18 NOVEMBER 2014


    9.2. The transfer of food from the serving trays to personal containers will take place in the
    dining area.
    9.3. At no point will the line server be allowed to handle any outside container.




                                             STEPHEN F. JOST, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
SHAWAFBI34-239 18 NOVEMBER 2014                                                       5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-239, Food Service Management Program, 20 February 2004
AFMAN 34-102, Directory of Government Quarters and Dining Facilities, 14 March 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
No prescribed forms are implemented by this publication.
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
APF—Appropriated Fund
BAS—Basic Allowance for Subsistence
ESM—Essential Station Messing
FSS—Force Support Squadron
NAF—Non-appropriated Funds
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty
