BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     SHEPPARD AIR FORCE BASE
82D TRAINING WING (AETC)                                           INSTRUCTION 32-7002

                                                                                   1 JULY 2014

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                 UNIT ENVIRONMENTAL COORDINATOR

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 82 CES/CEIV                                                        Certified by: 82 CES/CL
                                                                         (Mr. Mark Mc Burnett)
Supersedes:   SAFBI 32-7002,                                                            Pages: 13
              23 November 2005


This instruction implements AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality and AFI 32-7001,
Environmental Management, for Sheppard Air Force Base (SAFB) by providing guidance on
establishing and standardizing an environmental quality program and environmental
management procedures. Sheppard AFB is committed to: ensuring a safe and healthy working,
living, and commuting environment for all personnel, meeting all Environmental, Safety, and
Occupational Health (ESOH) standards applicable to its present operations; planning its future
activities to minimize environmental impacts; managing responsibly the irreplaceable natural and
cultural resources it holds in public trust; eliminating pollution and risk of pollution from its
activities wherever possible; and ensuring response capabilities for environmental emergencies.
This base instruction establishes responsibilities and procedures for managing a unit
environmental coordinator infrastructure for Sheppard AFB and is applicable to all organizations
under the 82d Training Wing and the 80th Flying Training Wing, including all tenant
organizations. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force
(AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of
References and Supporting Information.
 2                                                      SHEPPARDAFBI32-7002 1 JULY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. There have been
changes to roles and responsibilities for Unit Environmental Coordinators (UECs). Attachment
3 has been revised to change the course listing and reflect changes in training requirements and
responsibilities. Organizational changes include the elimination of the 882d Training Group.
1. Wing Commanders.
     1.1. Ensure their respective wing complies with all federal, state, and local regulatory laws,
     and DoD, Air Force, AETC and base environmental policies.
     1.2. Appoint a primary and alternate wing environmental coordinator. Appointments are
     made through submission of an appointment letter submitted to the installation
     environmental flight.
     1.3. Provide direct access for wing environmental coordinators to respective wing
     commander's office.
     1.4. Submit letters of appointment for representatives to serve on any environmental
     committee, subcommittees, or working groups not specifically assigned within AFI 90-801
     SAFB Sup 1, as applicable in accordance with wing involvement of ESOH protocols.
     1.5. Ensure an addendum is placed into the Wing Environmental Coordinator's Position
     Description as applicable. Attachment 2 has a recommended addendum for use.
     1.6. Ensure shop-level POCs (primary and alternate) appointments are made for Stage 1
     ECAMP responsibilities IAW AFI 90-803.
     1.7. Ensure each wing coordinator has the minimum training required as outlined in
     Attachment 3.
2. Group Commanders.
     2.1. Ensure their respective group complies with all federal, state, and local regulatory laws,
     and DoD, Air Force, AETC and base ESOH policies.
     2.2. Appoint a primary and alternate group environmental coordinator. Appointments are
     made through an appointment letter submitted to the installation environmental flight.
     2.3. Provide direct access for group environmental coordinators to respective group
     commander's office.
     2.4. Submit letter of appointment for representatives to serve on any environmental
     committees, subcommittees or working groups not specifically assigned within AFI 91-801,
     SAFB Sup 1, as applicable in accordance with group involvement of ESOH protocols.
     2.5. Ensure an addendum is placed into the Group Environmental Coordinator's Position
     Description. Attachment 2 has a recommended addendum for use.
     2.6. Ensure shop-level POCs (primary and alternate) appointments are made for Stage 1
     ECAMP responsibilities IAW AFI 90-803.
     2.7. Ensure each Group coordinator has the minimum training required as outlined in
     Attachment 3.
SHEPPARDAFBI32-7002 1 JULY 2014                                                                 3


3. Wing/Group UECs (Primary and/or Alternate).
   3.1. Represent each respective wing/group in all environmental matters.
   3.2. Ensure environmental matters pertaining to each respective wing/group are forwarded to
   the appropriate office in a timely manner.
   3.3. Ensure all environmental training requirements for each respective wing/group are
   identified to the installation environmental flight.
   3.4. Ensure all environmental requirements of each respective wing/group are documented
   and appropriate paperwork is completed and submitted for funding in accordance with
   Attachment 5. (See “8. Funding” for funding procedures).
   3.5. Provide updates directly to each respective wing/group commander on a recurring basis.
   3.6. Attend   all    ESOHC         meetings      with     each     respective    wing/group
   commander/representative.
   3.7. Represent each respective wing/group at all ESOHC subcommittee/working group
   meetings as assigned within AFI 90-801 SAFB Sup 1.
   3.8. Make recommendations to respective wing/group commander on the membership of
   environmental working groups as applicable.
   3.9. Identify areas of environmental concern to the wing/group commander, environmental
   program manager and/or environmental committee/subcommittees/working groups.
   3.10. Maintain a listing of environmental coordinators for each respective squadron.
   3.11. Report the status of open ECAMP findings/deficiencies, training status, and quarterly
   Stage 1 ECAMP completion status to respective wing/group commander.
   3.12. Ensure any changes in policies and procedures are disseminated to appropriate level.
   3.13. Act as the liaison for each respective wing/group with the installation environmental
   flight.
   3.14. Provide guidance, coordination, and policy to squadron commanders and squadron unit
   environmental coordinators upon the establishment/appointment of squadron and/or flight .
4. Squadron Commanders.
   4.1. Ensure respective squadron complies with all federal, state, and local regulatory laws,
   and DoD, Air Force, AETC, and installation environmental policies.
   4.2. Appoint primary and alternate (with consultation of the group environmental
   coordinator if necessary). Send appointment letters via each respective group UEC to the
   installation environmental flight.
   4.3. Provide direct access for squadron environmental coordinators to squadron
   commander's office.
   4.4. Assign squadron members to environmental working groups IAW AFI 90-801 SAFB
   Sup 1 requirements, or as determined necessary within the squadron.
   4.5. Ensure shop-level POCs (primary and alternate) are appointed for Stage 1 ECAMP
   responsibilities IAW AFI 90-803.
 4                                                       SHEPPARDAFBI32-7002 1 JULY 2014


     4.6. Ensure an addendum is placed into the Squadron UECs position description, if
     applicable. Attachment 2 has a suggested addendum for use.
5. Squadron Unit Environmental Coordinators.
     5.1. Represent each respective squadron in all environmental matters.
     5.2. Ensure environmental matters pertaining to respective squadron are forwarded to the
     appropriate office in a timely manner.
     5.3. Ensure all environmental training requirements for squadron are identified to the
     installation environmental flight through the Group UEC.
     5.4. Ensure all environmental requirements of squadron are documented and appropriate
     paperwork is completed and submitted for funding (in accordance with Attachment 5)
     through the Group UEC. (See “8. Funding” for funding procedures).
     5.5. Provide updates directly to each respective squadron commander on a recurring basis.
     5.6. Represent respective squadron at all ESOHC committee, subcommittees and/or working
     groups as assigned within AFI 90-801, SAFB Sup 1 or otherwise assigned by the squadron
     commander.
     5.7. Recommend the selection, as necessary, of any additional unit environmental
     coordinators that may be required in each respective squadron. See Attachment 4 for
     processes that may require a coordinator below the squadron level.
     5.8. Identify areas of environmental concern to the squadron commander, group UECs
     and/or subcommittees/working groups, as assigned.
     5.9. Maintain a listing of environmental coordinators for each respective flight.
     5.10. Report the status of open ECAMP findings/deficiencies, training status, and quarterly
     Stage 1 ECAMP completion status to respective squadron commander.
     5.11. Ensure any changes in policies and procedures are disseminated to appropriate level.
     5.12. Provide guidance, coordination, and policy to flight unit environmental coordinators.
6. Flight Chiefs/Supervisors.
     6.1. Ensure respective flight complies with all federal, state, and local regulatory laws, and
     DoD, Air Force, AETC, and installation environmental policies.
     6.2. Appoint a primary and alternate UEC (with consultation of the group/ squadron
     environmental coordinators if necessary), if the flight has any environmental involvement.
     Send appointment letters through respective group/squadron coordinators and squadron
     commander to the installation environmental flight.
     6.3. Report the status of open ECAMP findings/deficiencies, training status, and quarterly
     Stage 1 ECAMP completion status to respective squadron UEC/squadron commander.
     6.4. Provide direct access for flight UEC to flight chief's/supervisor’s office.
     6.5. Ensure an addendum is placed into the flight UEC’s position description if applicable.
     Attachment 2 has a suggested addendum for use.
SHEPPARDAFBI32-7002 1 JULY 2014                                                                  5


 6.6. Assign flight members to environmental working groups IAW AFI 90-801, SAFB Sup 1
                  requirements, or as determined necessary within the flight.
7. Flight UEC.
   7.1. Represent each respective flight in all environmental matters
   7.2. Ensure environmental matters pertaining to respective flights are forwarded to the
   appropriate office in a timely manner.
   7.3. Ensure all environmental training requirements for respective flights are identified to the
   installation environmental flight through the group and squadron environmental coordinators.
   7.4. Ensure all environmental requirements of respective flight are documented and
   appropriate paperwork is completed and submitted for funding (in accordance with
   Attachment 5) through the group and squadron UEC’s. (See “8. Funding” for funding
   procedures.)
   7.5. Provide updates directly to each respective flight chief on a recurring basis.
   7.6. Represent respective flight at all ESOHC subcommittees and/or working groups as
   assigned within AFI 90-801, SAFB Sup 1 or otherwise assigned by the flight chief.
   7.7. Identify areas of environmental concern to the flight chief, group and/or squadron
   environmental coordinators and/or subcommittees/working groups, as assigned.
   7.8. Report the status of open ECAMP findings/deficiencies, training status, and quarterly
   Stage 1 ECAMP completion status to respective flight chief/supervisor.
   7.9. Ensure any changes in policies and procedures are disseminated to appropriate level.
8. Funding.
   8.1. Defining. The Air Force Instructions for environmental management give broad
   guidelines on how the Air Force complies with environmental laws and regulations. The
   process owner must identify the requirement. Environmental requirements are driven by the
   Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality
   (TCEQ) and other agencies that provide rules and guidelines for conducting activities in an
   environmentally sound manner. USAF Environmental Quality Programming and Budgeting
   is outlined in AFI 32-7001, Environmental Management, 4 November 2011, Chapter 4.
      8.1.1. Environmental Requirements. The types of requirements are classified into four
      levels:
          8.1.1.1. Level 0 – Maintain Compliance (Operations and Services). Level 0
          requirements include activities such as the recurring administrative, personnel, and
          other costs associated with managing Environmental Quality (EQ) programs. These
          programs are necessary to maintain environmental compliance, meet Executive order
          (EO) goals/objectives, and prevent natural resource degradation that may affect
          military readiness.
          8.1.1.2. Level 1 – Fix Noncompliance. A Level 1 requirement corrects a non-
          compliance or out-of-compliance condition with a supported driver in the
          programmed year and must receive funding. A supported driver includes federal,
          state, and local laws and regulations; legal or regulatory mandates (e.g., consent
6                                                      SHEPPARDAFBI32-7002 1 JULY 2014


           orders, judicial decrees, etc.); tribal laws; EOs; and DoD or AF regulations. Level 1
           projects also include those that currently conform or comply with applicable
           requirements but are necessary to prevent non-conformance and non-compliance in
           the programmed year, as well as P2 projects with a 10-year or less return on
           investment and/or an elimination or significant reduction of a significant aspect (to
           include reduction of compliance burdens).
           8.1.1.3. Level 2 – Prevent Noncompliance. Level 2 requirements are for activities
           and projects that are currently in compliance, but are necessary to prevent non-
           compliance with an applicable driver or mission deadline beyond the programmed
           year. These requirements are generally the same as Level 1 requirements except for
           the timing of the non-compliance.
           8.1.1.4. Level 3 – Enhance Environment. Level 3 requirements are for activities and
           projects and non-recurring requirements not explicitly required by an applicable
           driver, but are needed to enhance the environment beyond otherwise compliant
           conditions or to achieve overall environmental goals and objectives.
    8.2. Submission to the installation environmental flight for validation. Attachment 5 is a
    flow chart for validation of eligibility of environmental funding. A letter to the installation
    environmental flight, with this information, is essential to ensure proper accounting of
    environmental funds. Each letter should have the necessary information, and required forms
    attached, environmental coordinator's signature and the appropriate commander's approval,
    prior to submittal.
       8.2.1. Validation. The Air Force has determined that anything currently not in
       compliance, or that will go out of compliance in the next year, will be funded in the
       current year budget to ensure all compliance issues are accomplished. Once all the
       appropriate forms are accomplished, 82 CES/CEY, through guidance documents and Air
       Force Policy letters, determines if the requirement is valid.
       8.2.2. Training and TDYs. Funding, other than training provided and funded by AFIT,
       is the responsibility of the requesting organization.
    8.3. Approval. The approval authority for all environmental requirements is the ESOHC.
    Once validation has been accomplished for the requirement, the ESOHC or appropriate
    subcommittee will approve the funding for the requirement. If funds must be reprogrammed
    for a project, the installation environmental flight will program/request funding from higher
    headquarters.




                                             SCOTT A. KINDSVATER, Brigadier General,
                                             USAF
                                             Commander
SHEPPARDAFBI32-7002 1 JULY 2014                                                            7


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7001, Environmental Management, 4 November 2011
AFI 90-801, SAFB SUP 1, Installation Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Council
(ESOHC), 27 January 2006
AFI 90-803, Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment and
Management Program, 24 March 2010
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFIT—Air Force Institute of Technology
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CE—Civil Engineer
CP2—Compliance/Pollution Prevention
DoD—Department of Defense
DoT—Department of Transportation
ECAMP—Environmental Compliance Assessment and Management Program
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
EO—Executive Order
EQ—Environmental Quality
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
ESOH—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health
ESOHC—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
ESOHMS—Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Management System
 8                                                  SHEPPARDAFBI32-7002 1 JULY 2014


ESOHTN—Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Training Network
HAZMAT—Hazardous Materials
IAW—In accordance with
ICED—Installation Comprehensive Environmental Data
SDS—Safety Data Sheet
ODSP—Ozone Depleting Substances Program
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RCRA—Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
ROI—Return on Investment
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAFBI—Sheppard Air Force Base Instruction
TCEQ—Texas Commission on Environmental Quality
TDY—Temporary Duty Assignment
UEC—Unit Environmental Coordinator
WSHP—Weapon Systems HAZMAT Program

Terms
Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Management System (ESOHMS)—the
overarching management system which drives continual improvements of all environmental,
safety and occupational health programs. The system is used to accomplish core goals of
mission sustainability, pollution prevention, compliance, and improve workplace safety.
Environmental Compliance Assessment and Management Program (ECAMP)—an
inspection program used by the Air Force to evaluate the environmental compliance status of an
installation.
Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC)—the installation's
governing body responsible for the oversight of the installation’s environmental, safety, and
occupational health program. Membership consists of wing/group commanders and wing staff
agencies as outlined in AFI 90-801 SAFB Sup 1.
ESOHC Chairperson—82 TRW/CC, or 82 TRW/CV, if delegated in writing by 82 TRW/CC.
ESOHC Executive Secretary—82 TRW/SE, Chief, Wing Safety.
ESOHC Committee—The Cross-Functional-Team (CFT) established within AFI 90-801 SAFB
Sup 1, responsible for management of the installation-wide Environmental, Safety and
Occupational Health Management System (ESOHMS)
ESOHC Subcommittees—action committees, as established within AFI 90-801 SAFB Sup 1,
that provide program oversight and reports to the ESOHC on Pollution Prevention/Compliance,
ESOHMS, Planning Subcommittee, and Installation Safety Council.
SHEPPARDAFBI32-7002 1 JULY 2014                                                              9


Environmental Working Groups—working groups, as established within AFI 90-801 SAFB
Sup 1, that report to the ESOHC through their respective subcommittee on specific issues
relating to environmental management.
Wing/Group UEC—the person (primary and alternate) designated by their Wing/Group
commander who represents each of the following Wings/Groups: 82 TRW, 80 FTW, 82 TRG,
782 TRG, 982 TRG, 82 MSG, and 82 MDG, on environmental issues as prescribed within this
instruction.
Squadron UEC—the person (primary and alternate) designated by their squadron commander
who represents their respective squadron on environmental issues as prescribed within this
instruction.
Flight UEC—the person (primary and/or alternate) designated by their flight chief (if
applicable) who represents their respective flight on environmental issues as prescribed within
this instruction.
Installation Comprehensive Environmental Data (ICED)—Sheppard AFB’s local
environmental intranet system containing all environmental protocol documents, plans, working
group data and references.
 10                                                   SHEPPARDAFBI32-7002 1 JULY 2014


                                         Attachment 2
             ADDENDUM FOR CIVILIAN UEC POSITION DESCRIPTION

Addendum for Position No. _______________________

Unit Environmental Coordinator

Serves as Environmental Coordinator, when required, for the wing/group/squadron/flight to
provide a focal point for problems/issues in each unit that needs to be corrected/addressed to the
Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC), its committee, various
subcommittees, and/or working groups. Attends all environmental meetings, i.e., ESOHC,
Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Management System (ESOHMS) committee,
Environmental Subcommittee, Planning Subcommittee, and various working groups (where
appropriate). Ensures information flows smoothly to all levels in the chain of command.
Ensures environmental taskings are distributed in an expeditious manner and information is
compiled for respective organizations. Ensures environmental needs of organization are
documented and budgeted accordingly. Ensures coordinators at every level are enrolled in any
and all training available on environmental subjects. Identifies problem areas such as lack of
manpower because of increasing responsibility of environmental issues. Obtains/maintains a
listing of ESOH POCs in each organization and sends forward to next level. Ensures any
changes in ESOH policies and procedures are disseminated to all levels within the organization.
Maintains Environmental Compliance Assessment Management Program (ECAMP) protocols
and appropriate references.


                SKILL CODE: 20% AAX Environmental Protection Assistant
SHEPPARDAFBI32-7002 1 JULY 2014                                                               11


                                         Attachment 3
                            REQUIRED TRAINING FOR UECS

Unit Environmental Coordinator Training Class (WENV-220)—A 20-hour course teaching
each student to comprehend the daily environmental management requirements of each
organization on an Air Force installation, and what it takes to communicate and orchestrate these
requirements both within and outside their organization. As a secondary objective, this course
seeks to increase general environmental awareness and how all installation members interact as a
team in managing environmental matters. This training is provided by the Air Force Institute of
Technology via Tele-Video and is scheduled and facilitated by installation environmental flight
personnel. These classes are conducted on an as-need basis and are mandatory for UECs at
Wing and Group levels. UECs appointed at Squadron and Flight levels are encouraged to
register/attend.

Hazardous Waste Management Course (WENV-521)—A 40-hour course that provides for the
basic understanding of all environmental rules as they apply to hazardous waste generation. The
course covers Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) rules, Department of
Transportation (DOT) rules, the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act as they apply to
hazardous waste, and various other federal and state regulations. This training is provided
periodically by the Air Force Institute of Technology only in residence (at Wright-Patterson
AFB) and must be scheduled and is funded by AFIT. These classes are conducted on an as-need
basis and are recommended for UECs wherein their respective organization generates/handles
hazardous waste.

Hazardous Material Management Process (HMMP) Course (WENV 222)—A 5-day resident
course conducted by the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) in residence at Wright-
Patterson AFB and must be scheduled and is funded by AFIT. The course emphasizes
hazardous materials (HAZMAT) management with a focus on the most current AF guidance and
instructions supporting an ESOH Management System (ESOH-MS) with goals of hazard and
risk reduction while enabling the mission. The course introduces management techniques for
operating a sound Installation HAZMAT Management Program (including Weapon Systems
HAZMAT Program (WSHP) and Ozone Depleting Substances Program (ODSP). Specific
topics include an overview of AFI 82-7086, Safety Data Sheet (SDS) Management, HAZMAT
storage, HAZMAT authorization process, HAZMAT procurement and shelf-life management.
The course will also include a day of hands on use of the automated information system
(EESOH-MIS) with the objective being how to use the system to effectively manage the data
needed to ensure an effective installation IHMP. Unit Environmental Coordinators are listed
within the Primary Audience. This training is recommended for all Wing and Group level UECs.

Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Training Network (ESOHTN)—All UECs
shall select Unit Environmental Coordinator designation when registering within ESOHTN and
shall complete all assigned training courses within 45 days of being appointed as a UEC.
 12                                                    SHEPPARDAFBI32-7002 1 JULY 2014


                                          Attachment 4
                     PROCESSES REQUIRING UEC DESIGNATION

The following processes have enough environmental issues and concerns to have a Unit
Environmental Coordinator (UEC) assigned to ensure they are correctly managed. It should be
made clear that at no time should a squadron or flight create a coordinator to cover the processes
described within this attachment. If a group's or squadron's UEC can manage the below
processes in a satisfactory manner, there is no need to add layers of environmental management
when not needed.
A4.1. Satellite accumulation points geographically separated from the group/squadron/flight
UEC's primary location of work.
A4.2. Significant storage of hazardous materials geographically separated from the
group's/squadron's UEC's primary location of work.
A4.3. An operation requiring reporting/management of an environmental permit/standard
exemption authorized by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Texas Commission
on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) or other environmental office.
A4.4. Operations that are at a significant distance that would prevent a group/squadron UEC
from visiting those sites on a recurring basis.
SHEPPARDAFBI32-7002 1 JULY 2014                   13


                             Attachment 5
                ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDING FLOWCHART
