BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     SHEPPARD AIR FORCE BASE
82D TRAINING WING (AETC)                                            INSTRUCTION 21-207

                                                                           10 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                   Maintenance

                                                      CRASHED, DAMAGED OR DISABLED
                                                         AIRCRAFT RECOVERY (CDDAR)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 82 CES/CL                                                       Certified by: 80 FTW/COR
                                                                              Mr. David Nelson)
Supersedes:   SAFBI 21-207,                                                            Pages: 10
              7 November 2012


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance
Management, requirements for the Crashed, Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR)
Program and Technical Order (TO) 00-80C-1, CDDAR Manual. It applies to all units and
activities assigned and/or attached to Sheppard Air Force Base, including tenants. It does not
apply to geographically separated units. This instruction includes responsibilities applicable to
82 TRW and 80 FTW agencies (military, civilian and contractors) that have specific
responsibilities to support CDDAR recovery efforts. Group Commander and Contract
Maintenance Program Manager will ensure all personnel are familiar with these procedures and
take appropriate action when notified of an aircraft mishap. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.” Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. This publication may not be supplemented. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force. See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and
Supporting Information.
 2                                              SHEPPARDAFBI21-207 10 FEBRUARY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised to change all references to Maintenance Authority (MA) to
Director of Maintenance (DOM), Quality Assurance Evaluator (QAE) to Contracting Officer
Representative (COR) and to include the requirements of TO 00-80C-1.
1. Overview. The CDDAR program is designed to recover crashed, damaged or disabled
aircraft in a minimum time period. Requirements will consist of opening runways for
operational use, prevention of secondary damage to the aircraft, and preservation of evidence for
mishap or accident investigation.
     1.1. The CDDAR program instruction is procedural and will not take precedence over
     aircraft specific technical data in the recovery of crashed, damaged or disabled aircraft.
2. CDDAR Responsibilities: 80 FTW is responsible under the host/tenant support agreement
for immediate response, recovery, and preservation of evidence for mishap or accident
investigations. 80 FTW/COR office is appointed as the focal point for the CDDAR Program.
When notified of a crashed aircraft, either on Sheppard AFB or within the response area, the 80
FTW Maintenance Contractor will assemble their CDDAR team members (See Attachment #2)
and await instruction from the Incident Commander (IC) and/or Director of Maintenance
(DOM). The CDDAR Team Chief will also advise the IC or DOM of equipment and support
requirements not normally possessed by the maintenance contractor. (See Attachment #3) It will
be the responsibility of the IC and DOM to coordinate these requirements in the most
expeditious manner. For disabled aircraft, the contractor’s Transient Alert will respond to the
scene and determine the most expeditious means back to the maintenance area. Aircraft
movement will only be attempted after release from the IC.
     2.1. 80 FTW will coordinate crash recovery support with the 82 TRG and 982 MXS as
     requested/required to support aircraft Safety Investigation Boards (SIB) IAW AFI 21-101
     Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, to include providing ample space in
     hangars for preservation of accident debris and providing Operations/Maintenance advisors
     to the IC. 80 FTW will also coordinate with 82 MDG to conduct exposure assessments
     during recovery operations. When civil aviation aircraft are involved, the CDDAR team
     members may respond when requested to do so by their Contracting Officer (CO) and a
     release has been granted by the aircraft owner/owning agency. In the event of an incident
     involving aircraft other than T-6 or T-38 aircraft, the IC, through the Emergency Operations
     Center (EOC), will coordinate with Dyess AFB or Ft. Sill Army Post to provide personnel to
     deactivate life support/egress systems and render safe spent munitions that could cause injury
     to CDDAR Team members.
     2.2. 80 FTW Maintenance Contractor and 80 FTW will ensure all aircraft AFTO 781 Forms,
     documentation/historical records, servicing equipment, personnel training records, and
     Maintenance Information System are impounded upon notification of an accident or mishap.
     80 FTW Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) will also serve as the central point of
     coordination between CDDAR team chief and the SIB.
     2.3. 80 FTW Maintenance Contractor will serve as the CDDAR team chief. Responsibilities
     will include providing technical expertise, technical data, MDS unique tools/special
     equipment, and airframe/system familiarization, as required.
SHEPPARDAFBI21-207 10 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                  3


   2.4. 80 FTW Maintenance Contractor will develop an emergency recall/mobilization roster
   identifying recovery team members outside of normal operating hours. A copy of the
   recall/mobilization roster will be sent to the 80 FTW/COR office and maintained on file in
   the MOC to be utilized in the event an accident/mishap should occur during non-duty hours.
   2.5. 80 FTW Maintenance Contractor Transient Alert Lead will be familiar with the
   requirements in TO 00-80C-1. He/she is also responsible for training, recovery, participating
   in host training exercises, equipment inventories, various hazards associated with MDS
   aircraft, special equipment qualifications (i.e., tugs, slings, air bags, etc.), and proper personal
   protective equipment (PPE) related to recovering crashed/disabled aircraft to ensure
   proficiency in the CDDAR program. All team members will be retrained and qualified at
   least annually on basic crash/damaged aircraft recovery operations. This will include
   indoctrination as to the necessity and importance of preserving all components of the
   wreckage whenever possible IAW AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports. All
   training will be documented IAW AFI 21-101, AETCI 21-112, AETC Civil Service and
   Contractor Aircraft Maintenance Training Programs. The responding team will respond to
   the site only at the direction of the IC, 82 TRW Safety Office, 80 FTW Flight Safety Office
   or DOM.
   2.6. 80 FTW Control Tower will activate the primary crash net upon notification of an
   aircraft emergency or mishap. Note: Primary crash net is a direct line from the tower to the
   fire department, base hospital, and base operations.
   2.7. Base Operations will activate the secondary crash net which will notify the Operations
   Group CC, Maintenance Operations Center (MOC), and 80 FTW Flight Safety. Appropriate
   emergency action checklist will be accomplished.
   2.8. 82 LRS/LGR will provide logistics support for the duration of recovery operations if
   needed.
   2.9. 82 CES/DS2 will provide a crane and trained/certified crane operator(s) capable of
   lifting aircraft weight if needed.
   2.10. 982d Trainer Maintenance Contractor will provide powered and non-powered
   Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) to the recovery site for the duration of recovery
   operations. Notification of the 982d will be accomplished thru 82 TRW/CP.
3. Procedures: 82 TRW Command Post (CP) will be notified via the secondary crash net of
aircraft accidents/mishaps. All accident/mishap procedures will be IAW SAFB Installation
Emergency Management Plan 10-2 and Contractor Maintenance Directive. Request/Notification
for CDDAR assistance will originate from the EOC Director. The EOC Director will also
inform the 82 TRW/CP that CDDAR actions have been initiated. The EOC will notify the
MOC, who will in turn notify all CDDAR standby personnel on duty. 82 TRW/CP will inquire
to the assistance required i.e., flare safety, landing gear safety, technical assistance, or other
requested items and response area requirements. 82 TRW/CP will notify the MOC for any
request/notifications of 80 FTW CDDAR assistance.
   3.1. Upon notification of an aircraft accident/mishap, the MOC will immediately notify all
   CDDAR response personnel and will initiate local Emergency Action Checklists. All 80
   FTW radio nets will be notified of an on-base aircraft accident/mishap. Aircraft
 4                                              SHEPPARDAFBI21-207 10 FEBRUARY 2014


     identification, personnel involved, possible reasons for accident/mishap will not be discussed
     on an open network utilizing radio nets.
     3.2. CDDAR team chief and/or team upon arrival will coordinate with the 82 LRS, 82 CES
     or IC and assist with all crash recovery or disabled aircraft actions required in providing
     technical assistance and/or other support needed. CDDAR team chief will provide updates to
     the MOC as warranted or directed on all crash recovery or disabled aircraft actions.
     3.3. 82 CES/DS2 will mobilize the Mobile Emergency Communication Center to support
     Command and Control (C2) functions upon direction of the incident commander.
     3.4. Security of all CDDAR sites and evidence will be the responsibility of the IC, Security
     Forces and/or appointed follow-on authority.
4. Vehicle/Equipment Requirements.
     4.1. The 80 FTW Contract Maintenance DOM along with the Chief, COR will determine
     vehicle/equipment requirements. Vehicle requirements have been identified to the 82 TRW
     and are listed in Attachment # 3.
     4.2. Equipment/tool requirements have been identified and items are maintained by 80 FTW
     Maintenance Contractor. Transient Alert (TA) is responsible for custodial and storage of
     equipment/tools stored in the crash recovery trailer.
     4.3. The T-6 sling assembly will be maintained by the T-6 Contractor Operated and
     Maintained Base Supply (COMBS).
5. Inspection and Inventory. TA is responsible for pre and post inspection of all recovery
equipment to include air bags, manifolds, jacks, slings, and shoring. Periodic equipment
inspections must be accomplished IAW intervals established in technical orders, commercial
manual or annually, as a minimum. Document inspections, maintenance and operational checks
in MIS, on AFTO IMT 244 or on other approved forms, in accordance with applicable directives.
6. CDDAR Team Chief.
     6.1. 80 FTW Maintenance Contractor will maintain qualified CDDAR Team Chiefs IAW
     TO 00-80C-1, AFI 21-101, and contractor directive. TA Lead man is responsible for training
     CDDAR Team Chiefs. This training will be documented on the Special Certification Roster
     (SCR) as CDDAR Team Chiefs.
     6.2. Team Chiefs will consider special tasks that may require identifying and handling
     aircrew life support or egress systems.
     6.3. Develop and maintain course control documents and/or lesson plans for CDDAR
     training.
     6.4. Ensure sufficient personnel are trained to support CDDAR program.
     6.5. Ensure special qualifications for personnel are identified and documented such as tow
     supervisor team member.
     6.6. Review support agreements and base disaster response plans annually.
        6.6.1. Coordinate with Inspection Planner (82 TRW/IG) prior to annual Lift Exercise.
SHEPPARDAFBI21-207 10 FEBRUARY 2014                                                            5


   6.7. Ensure adequate tools and support equipment for recovery are serviceable and available.
   Inform the DOM in writing of equipment shortages/serviceability that affect CDDAR
   support. The DOM will notify COR office of any equipment shortages/serviceability issues.
   6.8. Ensure adequate personal protective equipment (PPE) is available and team members
   are properly trained in its wear.
   6.9. Conduct a crash recovery exercise annually for each assigned MDS IAW AFI 21-101,
   AETC Sup 1.
   6.10. Coordinate with Quality Control (QC) Weight & Balance Manager if weight and
   center of gravity is in question.
7. Recovery Team Requirements, Qualifications and Training Requirements.
   7.1. A CDDAR Team Chief is required for all CDDAR operations with the exception of
   disabled aircraft recovery. In these instances, a qualified tow team, two or three person
   depending on hour of day, may recover the disabled aircraft provided there is no damage to
   prevent towing.
   7.2. Teams will be assembled depending on type of MDS. Team composition is identified in
   Attachment #2 and contractor directive. A two-person Egress team will be dispatched to
   disarm the Egress system before any lifting or jacking is attempted. De-arming is not
   required for aircraft that can be towed normally.
   7.3. CDDAR team members will be trained by qualified CDDAR Team Chiefs and will
   participate in a lift exercise on the specific MDS prior to qualification. All personnel
   qualified to participate in CDDAR activities will receive both academic and hands-on
   training annually.
8. Environmental, Safety, and Health Hazards.
   8.1. Personnel (military or civilian) including maintenance contractor personnel will not
   enter a CDDAR site until a health risk assessment has performed by the Bioenvironmental
   Engineer (BEE) and released by competent authority; Fire Chief or IC.
   8.2. T-38 aircraft do not possess composite materials but may still generate hazardous
   conditions. T-6 aircraft are constructed with some composite materials. Personnel entering
   the crash area may require PPE such as respirators, Tyvek type coveralls, nitrile inner gloves
   and leather external gloves. Personnel will wear personal protective equipment as
   determined by the BEE and coordinated with the maintenance contractor’s ESH manager or
   industrial hygienist.
9. Hours of Support:
   9.1. CDDAR support will be available throughout the flying hours of 80 FTW through
   contact with the 80 FTW MOC. During non-flying periods, CDDAR support will be
   accomplished through the recall process. The maintenance contractor will respond with a
   team as quickly as possible, but not later than two hours after notification through the 82nd
   Command Post.
6    SHEPPARDAFBI21-207 10 FEBRUARY 2014


    SCOTT A. KINDSVATER, Brigadier General,
    USAF
    Commander
SHEPPARDAFBI21-207 10 FEBRUARY 2014                                              7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, 25 February 2003
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 7 March 2012
AFI 36-2201 V3, Air Force Training Program on the Job Training Administration,
15 September 2010
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFI 91-204 Safety Investigations and Reports, AETCSup1, 31 January 2011
Sheppard AFB Installation Emergency Management Plan 10-2, 26 February 2013
Host/Tenant Support Agreement, 14 February 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
Air Force Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFTO Form/IMT 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record
AFTO Form/IMT 781, AFORMS Aircrew/Mission Flight Data Document
AFTO Form/IMT 781A, Maintenance Discrepancy and Work Document
AFTO Form/IMT 781B, Communication Security (COMSEC) Equipment Record
AFTO Form/IMT 781C, Avionics, Configuration and Load Status Document
AFTO Form/IMT 781D, Calendar and Hourly Item Inspection Document
AFTO Form/IMT 781F, Aerospace Vehicle Flight Report and Maintenance Document
AFTO Form/IMT 781G, General Mission Classifications-Mission
AFTO Form/IMT 781H, Aerospace Vehicle Flight Status and Maintenance Document
AFTO Form/IMT 781J, Aerospace Vehicle - Engine Flight Document
AFTO Form/IMT 781K, Aerospace Vehicle Inspection, Engine Data, Calendar
Inspection and Delayed Discrepancy Document
AFTO Form/IMT 781M, Status Symbols and Functional System Codes

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineer
C2—Command and Control
CDDAR—Crashed, Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery
 8                                       SHEPPARDAFBI21-207 10 FEBRUARY 2014


CO—Contracting Officer
COMBS—Contractor Operated and Maintained Base Supply
COR—Contracting Officer Representative
CP—Command Post
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Incident Commander
MA—Maintenance Authority
MDS—Mission Design Series
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
QC—Quality Control
SCR—Special Certification Roster
SIB—Safety Investigation Board
TA—Transient Alert
SHEPPARDAFBI21-207 10 FEBRUARY 2014                                                     9


                                      Attachment 2
      CRASH, DAMAGED OR DISABLED AIRCRAFT REPAIR (CDDAR) TEAM
                           COMPOSITION

AIRCRAFT TYPE/# OF PERSONNEL

T-38 – 1 Team Chief, 4 Team Members, 1 crane operator (if required), and 1 Special Vehicle
Operator (if required)

T-6 – 1 Team Chief, 4 Team Members, 1 crane operator (if required), and 1 Special Vehicle
Operator (if required)

Non-Assigned MDS – A team will be assembled based upon input and approval of the CO under
direction of the IC.

Other personnel as determined necessary by the IC or CDDAR Team Chief.
 10                                           SHEPPARDAFBI21-207 10 FEBRUARY 2014


                                        Attachment 3
                             EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS

The 80th Aircraft Maintenance possesses all required slings, jacks, airbags, hand tools and
vehicles to perform CDDAR responsibilities for 80 FTW assigned aircraft and like MDS aircraft
with the exception of the following, which must be provided by the 82 TRW:

Escort for contractor vehicles onto the airfield when Airfield Management is not available
Crane w/operator – 20 ton or greater
Forklift w/operator – All terrain
Tractor Truck and Flatbed Trailer w/operator – up to 40 foot
Required portable lighting units (Lite-Alls)
For non–T-38/T-6 MDS transient and civil aircraft all equipment, vehicles and special tools must
be provided by the 82 TRW and/or owning agency with the exception of airbags.
