                                   Sheppard Air Force Base
                         Equal Opportunity Office
                                           Office Information
                                   401 K Avenue, Building 1624, Suite 4
                                        Sheppard AFB, TX 76311
                                  DSN/Comm: 736-4393 / (940) 676-4393
                                Fax DSN/Comm: 736-2292 / (940) 676-2292
                                    Email: 82trweo@sheppard.af.mil

       After hours, contact the 82 TRW Command Post at DSN/Comm: 736-6266 / (940) 676-6266


 Your Wing Equal Opportunity office is responsible for educating Sheppard AFB members to understand
 and enforce DoD and USAF policies regarding unlawful discrimination, and to provide tools to assist all
 members with issues related to race, color, national origin, religion, sex to include sexual harassment, and
 for DoD Civilian employees this includes age, disability, reprisal and genetic information.

 What We Do: Promote an environment free from personal, social, or institutional barriers that prevent AF
 members from rising to the highest level of responsibility possible. Advocates Alternative Dispute
 Resolution as prescribed by the EEOC (also see http://www.adr.af.mil).

 Who We Serve: All Military members, their dependents, retirees, and DoD Civilian employees. We do
 not service contractors, but can refer them to appropriate helping agencies. We are now merged and all EO
 specialists (both military and civilian) can service both military and civilian customers.

 Local EO Policy: Sheppard AFB practices zero-tolerance of EO violations on or off base. We seek to
 eliminate all forms of sexual harassment and discrimination by confronting policy violations. Attempt
 resolution through the chain-of-command when possible. Sheppard AFB also practices zero-tolerance of
 reprisal toward complainants and witnesses in EO related issues.

 Military members, dependents, and retirees: Informal complaints have no reporting time requirements,
 but Formal complaints must be filed within 60 days of the last occurrence of the discriminatory act. The
 informal complaint inquiry is conducted locally. Formal complaint investigation is conducted by EO Staff.

 DoD Civilians: Contact EO within 45 days of the last occurrence of the discriminatory act or the effective
 date of any adverse personnel action. Formal complaint investigation is conducted by Investigation and
 Resolution Division (IRD).

 Your Role: Develop your EO awareness, enforce and comply with DoD, USAF, and AF EO policies, set a
 positive example, perform self-evaluations for discriminatory behaviors, and always be professional!




                              Equal Opportunity Through Action vs. Reaction!


SAFB VA 36-2, 23 April 2014                                                         OPR: 82 TRW/EO Distribution F
