BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER
SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS                                        INSTRUCTION 63-108
CENTER
                                                                            9 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                     Acquisition

                                               SOFTWARE ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT
                                                                    PLAN (SWAMP)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SMC/ENS                                                              Certified by: SMC/EN
                                                                      (Mr Michael S. Zambrana)
                                                                                        Pages: 12


This instruction provides the requirements for the preparation and approval of a Software
Acquisition Management Plan (SWAMP) in association with the Software Acquisition
Instruction 63-104, along with this document and Section 804 of the Bob Stump National
Defense Authorization Act of 2003 for improving software acquisition processes at SMC. The
SMCI 63-104 requires that each program within each Directorate prepare a SWAMP to
document the software acquisition activities. In addition to the SWAMP instructions set forth in
this instruction, the SWAMP author will use the latest revision of the Software Acquisition
Management Plan (SWAMP) Preparation Guide TOR-2006(1455)-5743) when authoring a
SWAMP. The TOR is a guide book and offers a set of software engineering and development
best practices that may be selected for inclusion in the programs acquisition strategy by the
appropriate leadership. The TOR should be used in conjunction with the SWAMP Instruction.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
the AF Form 847 from the field through major command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
 2                                                            SMCI63-108 9 FEBRUARY 2011


1. Objective. The purpose of this instruction is to identify the requirements for the preparation
and approval of a SWAMP. This instruction describes the software management requirements
for the entire software acquisition life cycle and specifies the requirements for SMC management
of software program acquisitions as stated in SMCI 63-104. It also serves to standardize all
software acquisitions at SMC.
2. SWAMP Development, Review, and Approval Requirements. The SWAMP shall provide
a schedule for updating the SWAMP activities that span the entire life cycle of the software
program acquisition, from pre-systems acquisition through sustainment and disposal. The
program shall develop an initial SWAMP at the Material Development Decision (MDD) activity
for Milestone Decision Authority (MDA) approval. The initial SWAMP shall be updated at the
start of the Material Solution Analysis (MSA) phase. The initial approved SWAMP shall be
submitted to the SMC Chief Software Engineer (CSE) for tracking and reporting. The SWAMP
shall then be updated, as needed, prior to each of the following phases; the Technology
Development (TD) phase, the Engineering and Manufacturing Development (EMD) phase, the
Production & Deployment (P&D) phase and the Operations & Support (O&S) phase. A group of
small projects/efforts can be addressed by writing a SWAMP that delineates and covers the
organizational approach to managing the software aspects of all of the projects/efforts in a single
document.
     2.1. The SWAMP shall be reviewed annually, and updated as required throughout the life
     cycle of the program or whenever the changes are made to the software acquisition strategy
     to assure the SWAMP reflects the current software acquisition organization, a major supplier
     or contractor, processes, products, resource requirements, and planned activities.
     2.2. Refer to Table 1 for the detailed roles and responsibilities of the development, review,
     and approval of the SWAMP.
SMCI63-108 9 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                       3




Table 1. Roles and Responsibilities for SWAMP.

Roles                                             Responsibilities
Program Chief Software Engineer (or Equivalent)   Develop/prepare, review and update the
                                                  SWAMP
Program Manager                                   Provide oversight to ensure a SWAMP is
                                                  prepared and updated
                                                  Ensure Program resources are applied to
                                                  prepare and update the SWAMP
                                                  Review and approve the SWAMP (Required
                                                  Signature)
Directorate Chief Software Engineer               Provide guidance to ensure a SWAMP is
                                                  prepared and updated in accordance with this
                                                  instruction and Directorate specific needs
                                                  Review and approve the SWAMP (Required
                                                  Signature)
Directorate Chief Systems Engineer                Ensure system and software planning are
                                                  integrated
                                                  Review and endorse the SWAMP(s)
                                                  (Required Signature)
Directorate Director                              Ensure compliance with this instruction
                                                  Review and endorse the SWAMP(s)
                                                  (Required Signature)
SMC Chief Software Engineer                       Provide guidance for the SWAMP
                                                  Review and approve the SWAMP(s) and
                                                  updates (Required Signature) for ACAT II
                                                  and lower
                                                  Review and endorse the SWAMP(s) for
                                                  ACAT I and IA Programs
                                                  Submit the completed SWAMP to the
                                                  SMC/ENS Point of Contact (POC) for
                                                  archival
                                                  Review and grant or deny SWAMP exception
                                                  request
SMC Chief Systems Engineer                        Review and approval of all SWAMPs
                                                  Review and endorse SWAMP exception
                                                  requests
 4                                                              SMCI63-108 9 FEBRUARY 2011


3. SWAMP Contents Requirements. The SWAMP shall document the software acquisition
activities to be performed, the processes to be used, and the products to be developed by the
program, in the solicitation, management, sustainment, and disposal of a software space system,
over the entire systems acquisition life cycle. Specific content requirements are provided in the
following sections. In each section, the program can reference other program documentation that
has the detailed information to address the SWAMP requirement.
     3.1. Approval Signatures Requirement. Table 1 identifies the signatories required for
     approval of the SWAMP. The SWAMP shall include a signature page. The SWAMP shall
     describe the program's process for reviewing and approving the initial SWAMP and
     subsequent updates. This description shall include a change control process for the SWAMP.
     3.2. Program Software Overview. The SWAMP shall provide the context of the SMC
     program acquisition environment in which the software is being developed. This context
     should include a description of the overall system and operational concept. This section shall
     include the organization, effort, cost, and schedule of the software. The organization shall
     include the software acquisition personnel, including supporting organizations such as
     Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs) and Systems Engineering
     and Technical Assistance (SETA) contractors. The description of the effort shall reference
     the software portions of the Cost Analysis Requirements Description (CARD). The extent of
     detail should be consistent with the current version of the CARD, for example, the program
     may use the draft CARD in the initial version of the SWAMP. The schedule shall include
     all the milestones for each phase of the software acquisition life cycle.
     3.3. Software Solicitation Plan. The SWAMP shall document the software acquisition
     activities in support of the system solicitation. Type of solicitation activities include but are
     not limited to (Table 2).
SMCI63-108 9 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                            5




Table 2. Types of Solicitation Activities to Include.

Description of the techniques/processes to be used by the program to develop an independent
software size, cost and schedule estimate and to evaluate the contractors’ estimates of size, cost,
and schedule for realism. If the confidence level is lower than 80%, the lower confidence level
must be justified; in no event shall the confidence level be lower than the mean of the program
cost estimate distribution (typically 55-65%) or, where a distribution cannot be computed, the
expected value of the cost estimate in accordance with AFI63-101 § 3.61. The software
estimation shall include newly-developed code, modified code, reused code, Commercial Off-
The-Shelf (COTS), Government Off-The-Shelf (GOTS), and Non-Developmental Item (NDI).
Selection of the software measurements to be collected and reported by the contractor to support
the software acquisition, including the specification of metric thresholds and reporting
frequency.
Identification of the software Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL) items to be delivered to
the program from the contractor. (e.g., software specifications and standards, software quality,
software safety, software reliability, maintainability, and availability, and software components
of the award fee structure.)
Identification of the transition strategy from acquisition to sustainment when the software is
accepted for operations to ensure the cost of sustainment is fully negotiated and “optimized” as
part of the overall life cycle planning.
   3.4. Internal/External Interface Plan. The SWAMP shall describe the structure of the
   organization utilized to support the software acquisition. It shall detail internal interfaces,
   inter-program office interfaces, and external interfaces. The SWAMP shall also describe the
   software acquisition schedule, software acquisition resources, software acquisition metrics,
   roles and responsibilities, stakeholders, tools, techniques, methods, staffing, and training
   necessary to support the software acquisition process.
   3.5. Coordination with other Program Plans. The SWAMP shall specify the relationship of
   the SWAMP to other program plans, for example, System Engineering Plan (SEP), Risk
   Management Plan (RMP), Configuration Management (CM) Plan, Test and Evaluation
   Master Plan (TEMP), Life Cycle Management Plan (LCMP), Life Cycle Sustainment Plan
   (LCSP) or a higher-level SWAMP in a family of programs.
   3.6. Software Requirement Plan. The SWAMP shall document how the program will
   integrate software and systems engineering activities to develop, manage, verify, and validate
   software requirements. The plan shall include the management process of the requirements
   flow down (e.g., System Requirements Document (SRD), Concept of Operations
   (CONOPS), requirements change, bi-directional traceability and verification for each
   software acquisition phase).
   3.7. Software Acquisition Monitoring and Control Plan. The SWAMP shall describe the
   processes to be used by the acquirer for the technical monitoring of the contractor's software
   development processes. The SWAMP shall describe the processes to be used by the acquirer
   for management oversight of the contractor's performance and progress on the development
6                                                            SMCI63-108 9 FEBRUARY 2011


    of software products. The process descriptions shall include the use of thresholds or quality
    measures to determine when performance is satisfactory. The SWAMP shall describe the
    management actions to take when performance is unsatisfactory, including the methods for
    communicating issues to the contractor and using incentives to improve performance. Also,
    suggestions on the life cycle software development processes from requirements and design
    through verification, operations and maintenance, see SMC-S-012, Software Development
    for Space Systems.
       3.7.1. The processes for the technical monitoring shall include the use of metrics,
       Technical Performance Measures (TPMs), technical reviews, formal reviews and audits,
       and process appraisals. For suggestions on the technical reviews and audits standard, see
       SMC-S-21, Technical Reviews and Audits for Systems, Equipment and Computer
       Software Volume 1.
       3.7.2. Describe how the software acquisition team will monitor the contractor’s software
       testing and the use of Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) to evaluate the
       correctness and quality of the software product throughout the acquisition life cycle.
       3.7.3. The SWAMP shall describe the processes to collect and analyze Earned Value
       Management (EVM) data down to at least the Software Item (SI) level to provide
       objective measures of the software cost and schedule. The Earned Value Management
       System (EVMS) should support and be consistent with the software effort and schedule
       metrics.
    3.8. Software Sustainment Plan. The SWAMP shall document the program’s plans for
    software sustainment for the Operations and Support (O&S) phase of the systems acquisition
    life cycle. Software sustainment begins after system acceptance with the transition of the
    system to operational use and maintenance, and concludes with system retirement and
    follow-up analysis of the contract. (Refer to Air Force Instruction 63-101, Acquisition and
    Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 20 July 2010). Part of sustainment is including the
    component of “training and technical data and computer software rights needed for operation
    of the software.”, and “training and technical data, computer software rights, and disposal.”
    Refer to the companion document AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management, 6
    November 2009, for additional acquisition and sustainment life cycle management
    instruction for modifications.
       3.8.1. The SWAMP shall document the process for the transition of the software (a
       particular System version) from its development environment to its deployed/operational
       environment including the documentation, training, and data rights needed for operation
       of the software.
       3.8.2. The SWAMP shall document the resources and processes necessary for transition
       of the software from the acquiring organization to the sustainment organization.
       Resources shall include items such as manpower planning, the product software baseline
       and associated documentation, and the software maintenance and testing tools, equipment
       and facilities. Processes shall include items such as sustainment Certification and
       Accreditation (C&A), testing strategy, deficiency reporting, system safety, configuration
       management, training, and data rights. The SWAMP shall document the sustainment
       budget and schedule planning associated with the resources and processes needed to
       transition to sustainment.
SMCI63-108 9 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                      7


  3.9. Software Risk Management Plan (RMP). The SWAMP shall describe the process to
  identify, track, and mitigate software-related program risks throughout the acquisition life
  cycle including transition of the software to sustainment in concert with the program RMP.
  The SWAMP shall describe how software risk management will be coordinated across
  stakeholders, including the program office (e.g., systems engineering and hardware), the
  sustainment organization, and the contractor. (Refer to Risk Management Guide for DoD
  Acquisition, August 2006).
  3.10. Software Configuration Management Plan. The SWAMP shall document the
  configuration management processes and procedures, including configuration of both
  software acquisition products generated by the program and software deliverables received
  from the contractor. These procedures must describe how the software products delivered by
  the contractor and the software acquisition products generated by the program will be
  identified, configured, control, protected, and stored. (Refer to SMC-S-002, Configuration
  Management).
  3.11. Data Management. The SWAMP shall describe the methods and processes to be used
  to manage the data, including both data generated by the software acquisition team and data
  received from the supplier. Data may be in the form of documents, databases, or analysis
  products and may be in the form of hardcopy or electronic format. Data products are
  delivered in accordance with the CDRL in the contract.
  3.12. Software Safety Plan. The SWAMP shall describe the plan and actions taken to
  identify, assess, mitigate, and continuously track, control, and document any software related
  mishap risks encountered in the development, test, acquisition, and use of the software
  system. The plan shall apply the principles described in SMCI 63-1205 in the development
  of an overall software system safety management plan, which will be an integral component
  of the System Safety Management Plan (SSMP). As a component of the system safety
  process, it shall be accomplished as outlined in DoDI 5000.02.
  3.13. Software Assurance Plan. The SWAMP shall describe the software acquisition tasks
  for software mission assurance within the framework of the systems acquisition activities.
  This description shall include how software acquisition will support the test program to
  ensure the mission assurance objectives for software are met. Support of the test program
  shall include reviews of the software test plans, test processes, test metrics, integration and
  verification plans, validation plans and the management oversight of the test results and
  progress of the software test activities against the plans. TOR-2006(8506)-5749, 30
  September 2006 has the discussion of software tasks under mission assurance.
     3.13.1. The SWAMP shall discuss the use of integrated tools (e.g., Mission Assurance
     Tool (iMAT)) to provide a set of standardized mission assurance processes and tasks to
     document and to evaluate the program’s software assurance program.
     3.13.2. The SWAMP shall describe the use of the Joint Deficiency Report System for
     tracking software deficiencies, the process for transitioning any open deficiencies at
     turnover to sustainment, and the testing strategy to be used after transition to sustainment.
 8                                                            SMCI63-108 9 FEBRUARY 2011


     3.14. Software Information Assurance Plan. The SWAMP shall describe how the software
     acquisition will comply with the DoD Information Assurance (IA) Policy (DoDD 8500.01E).
     This description shall include how the software acquisition will support the DoD Information
     Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP) (DoDI 8510.01) or other
     Information Assurance (IA) activities.
     3.15. Software Security Plan. The SWAMP shall describe the processes used to reduce the
     software security risks (including those related to foreign-developed software) for all COTS,
     newly developed software, and software reuse. The plan shall clearly identify how the
     software security related risks will be mitigated and controlled.
     3.16. Data Rights. The SWAMP shall describe the program's plans for identifying needed
     technical data and computer software rights for the program including those needed for
     operation and maintenance of the software. The SWAMP also shall describe the process to
     obtain these rights. (Refer to: “Acquiring and Enforcing the Government’s Rights in
     Technical Data and Computer Software Under Department of Defense Contracts: A Practical
     Handbook for Acquisition Professionals”, 2nd Edition January 2010, SMC Staff Judge
     Advocate.)
     3.17. Software Total Cost of Ownership (TCO). The SWAMP shall describe the plan and
     actions taken to minimize total cost of ownership. Areas to consider when determining TCO
     are vendor provided support such as patch implementation and security updates (for example:
     Win2K is no longer supported by Microsoft). In cases of known software obsolescence,
     include the cost of software upgrades to ensure supportability.
4. Exception to the SWAMP Requirement. A program may request an exception from the
requirement to write a SWAMP. The request shall be submitted in writing to the SMC Chief
Software Engineer. To be eligible for an exception, the program must satisfy one of the Table 3
conditions:

Table 3. Eligible SWAMP Exception Conditions.

SMC ACAT III program satisfied the definition defined in DoDI 5000.2 Enclosure 3.
Any SMC legacy program past milestone B that has an existing Computer Resources Lifecycle
Management Plan (CRLCMP) or Computer Resources Support Plan (CRSP).
Any SMC program that does not require software or firmware activities.

     4.1. An exception request must be submitted in Microsoft Word format and address the
     items in Tables 4 and 5:
SMCI63-108 9 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                      9




Table 4. As a Minimum, the Exception Request Shall Include the Following Items.

Identify SMC Program name
The capability the program provides by SMC
Acquisition category assigned by SMC
A program rationale for the exception
Any planned follow-on contracts
A description of the management approach that the program will use to acquire or maintain the
software. The exception request shall address a minimum set of requirements (Refer Table 5)
contained within this instruction.

Table 5. List of Management Approach in Exception.

A Software Overview section(Refer to section 3.2) to describe the program overview
A Software Requirement Plan (Refer to section 3.6) to manage software requirement
A Software Acquisition Monitor and Control Plan (Refer to section 3.7) to monitor and control
the contractor’s activities and progress
A Software Configuration Management Plan (Refer to section 3.10) section to perform program
configuration management

   4.2. The exception request shall be granted by the SMC Chief Software Engineer (CSE) and
   endorsed by the SMC Chief Systems Engineer. The SMC CSE office will respond to the
   exception request via a memo indicating approval or disapproval.




                                            DAVID E. SWANSON, Colonel, USAF
                                            Director of Engineering
 10                                                          SMCI63-108 9 FEBRUARY 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Instruction 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 20 July
2010
AFI 63-131, Modification Program Management, 6 November 2009
DoD Instruction 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, December 8, 2008
Space and Missile Systems Center Instruction 63-1205, Space System Safety Policy, Process,
and Techniques, 20 August 2007
DoD Directive 8500.01E, DoD Directive Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation
Process, 23 April 2007
DoD Instruction 8510.01, DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process
(DIACAP) November 28, 2007
Risk Management Guide for DoD Acquisition, August, 2006
Space and Missile Systems Center Instruction 63-104, Software Acquisition Instruction, 26 May
2009.
Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act of 2003 (Pub.L. 107-314), Section 804. (FY03
NDAA Section 804.)
Space and Missile Systems Center Policy, SMC Policy on Chief Software Engineers, 13 May
2009.
SMC-S-002, Configuration Management, Space and Missile Systems Center, 13 June 2008
SMC-S-012, Software Development for Space Systems, 13 June 2008
SMC-S-21, Technical Reviews and Audits for Systems, Equipment and Computer Software
Volume 1, 15 September 2009
Acquiring and Enforcing the Government’s Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software
Under Department of Defense Contracts: A Practical Handbook for Acquisition Professionals,
2nd Edition January 2010, SMC Staff Judge Advocate
Eslinger, S., Gechman, M.C., Harralson, D.J., Holloway, L.J., and Sisti, F. J., Software
Acquisition Management Plan (SWAMP) Preparation Guide, The Aerospace Corporation Report
TOR-2006(1455)-5743, 29 December 2006. Restricted distribution.
Ellis, C. M., Eslinger, S., Holloway, L. J., and D. Lutton, Mission Assurance Tasks for Software,
The Aerospace Corporation Report TOR-2006(8506)-5749, 30 September 2006.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT—Acquisition Category
C&A—Certification and Accreditation
CARD—Cost Analysis Requirements Document
SMCI63-108 9 FEBRUARY 2011                                                 11


CDRL—Contract Data Requirements List
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
COTS—Commercial Off-The-Shelf
CM—Configuration Management
CRLCMP—Computer Resources Lifecycle Management Plan
CRSP—Computer Resources Support Plan
CSE—Chief Software Engineer
DIACAP—DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
EAS—Engineering Architecture System
EMD—Engineering and Manufacturing Development
ENSS—Engineering System Software
EVM—Earned Value Management
EVMS—Earned Value Management System
FFRDC—Federally Funded Research and Development Center
GOTS—Government Off-The-Shelf
IA—Information Assurance
MAT—Integrated Mission Assurance Tool
IV&V—Independent Verification and Validation
LCMP—Life Cycle Management Plan
LSCP—Life Cycle Sustainment Plan
MDA—Milestone Decision authority
MDD—Material Development Decision
MSA—Material Solution Analysis
NDI—Non-Developmental Item
O&S—Operations and Support
P&D—Production & Deployment
POC—Point of Contact
RMP—Risk Management Plan
SEP—Systems Engineering Plan
 12                                                 SMCI63-108 9 FEBRUARY 2011


SETA—Systems Engineering And Technical Assistance
SI—Software Item
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SMCI—Space and Missile Systems Center Instruction
SRD—System Requirements Document
SSMP—System Safety Management Plan
SWAMP—Software Acquisition Management Plan
TD—Technology Development
TOR—Technical Operating Report
TPM—Technical Performance Measure
