BY THE ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                              SPACE AND MISSLE SYSTEMS CENTER
SPACE & MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER                                             INSTRUCTION 51-301
                                                                                       21 AUGUST 2006
                                                                     Certified Current 4 November 2014
                                                                                                   Law

                                                      SERVICE OF PROCESS AND REPOSSESSION
                                                                    OF PERSONAL PROPERTY

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SMC/JA                                                 Certified by: SMC/JA (Col Scott W. Singer)
Supersedes SSDR110-1, 25 October 1991                                                        Pages: 4

This instruction establishes policies and procedures for the service of civil and criminal process and for
repossession of personal property within Los Angeles Air Force Base (LAAFB), Fort MacArthur, Pacific
Heights Housing Area, Pacific Crest Housing Area, and any other property owned/managed by Los Ange-
les AFB.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Format updated.

1. Terms Explained:
   1.1. Los Angeles Air Force Base: Los Angeles Air Force Base in El Segundo, and the Fort Mac-
   Arthur, Pacific Heights, and Pacific Crest housing areas.
   1.2. Criminal Process: Any warrant or order for the arrest of a person, or any other order, subpoena,
   notice or other document issued by or on behalf of a court in a criminal action or proceeding.
   1.3. Civil Process: Any complaint, answer, order, subpoena or other document issued by or on behalf
   of a court in a civil action or proceeding.
   1.4. Repossession of Personal Property: A creditor’s attempt to legally repossess property from one
   who has an unfulfilled contractual obligation involving the creditor.
   1.5. Private Process Server: A process server who is not acting as an employee of the federal gov-
   ernment or the state of California, or one of its subdivisions.
   1.6. Public Process Server: A person acting as a process server for the federal, state, or local govern-
   ment for the purpose of serving process on individuals. Such process servers include, but are not lim-
   ited to, U.S. Marshals, federal process servers, state police, sheriffs, sheriff’s deputies, city police,
   local constables, court clerks, court magistrates, etc.
2                                                                          SMCI51-301 21 AUGUST 2006


2. Policy.
    2.1. Security Forces and AFOSI Coordination. Security Forces (61 SFS) and/or the Air Force Office
    of Special Investigations (AFOSI) will cooperate in the orderly service of criminal and civil process
    as may legally be issued under the authority of the United States or any state therein, according to the
    procedures set forth in this instruction. (AFOSI will assist in the service of criminal, but not civil, pro-
    cess.) Anyone making first contact with a process server will ascertain the reason for requesting
    entrance to the base and immediately notify the 61 SFS Shift Supervisor of the process server’s pres-
    ence at LAAFB. In situations involving arrest or search and seizure warrants, OSI and 61 SFS will
    determine which agency will provide the process server with escort and liaison.
       2.1.1. Escort Requirements/Restrictions. 61 SFS and/or the AFOSI will escort all process servers
       while they are on LAAFB. Escort will terminate only after the process server has left LAAFB.
       Escorts will not participate in the actual service of any process unless specifically directed to do so
       by this instruction and in strict adherence to the procedures set forth in this instruction. Such
       assistance will be limited to the minimum required by this instruction. Escorts will provide cour-
       tesies such as the use of area telephones and general directional guidance.
       61 SFS and/or AFOSI will also ensure that nothing occurs during the service of process that would
       endanger the safety of others or otherwise cause a breach of the peace.
    2.2. Coordination with SMC/JA. A judge advocate assigned to SMC/JA will review documents
    relating to service of process or repossession of property before the documents are served on the indi-
    vidual. During normal duty hours, escort process servers to the Legal Office for this purpose before
    they attempt service on LAAFB in El Segundo. If a process server first appears at Fort MacArthur,
    coordinate with a judge advocate by telephone and provide a fax copy of the document for review.
    For process served during non-duty hours, coordinate with the on-call judge advocate by telephone,
    which can be done through the Command Post.
    2.3. Accepting Service of Process. No one on LAAFB will accept service of process for, or on
    behalf of, another person except as may be authorized in this instruction. Service of process will only
    be upon persons, property or premises toward which the process is specifically directed.
    2.4. Private Process Servers.
       2.4.1. Service in Duty Areas. If the individual to be served is present for duty as an employee at
       LAAFB, after the process is reviewed by a judge advocate, the 61 SFS will contact the person to
       be served by telephone, explain the situation and invite the person to the Legal Office (or other
       suitable location) for voluntary acceptance of the service of process.
       2.4.2. Service in Housing Area. In cases where process is to be served in the base housing areas,
       following coordination with a judge advocate by telephone, 61 SFS will escort the process server
       to the residence of the person being served.
       2.4.3. After the process server finishes serving process, 61 SFS will escort the process server off
       LAAFB.
    2.5. Public Process Servers.
       2.5.1. Public Process Servers will first attempt voluntary service as described in paragraph 2.4.
       above. If voluntary service is not possible, 61 SFS will escort the process server anywhere on
SMCI51-301 21 AUGUST 2006                                                                                 3


     LAAFB necessary to accomplish the service of process. Service of process will be accomplished
     as privately as the circumstances allow.
     2.5.2. Criminal Warrants. In cases involving service of arrest or search and seizure warrants,
     61 SFS or the AFOSI will notify the 61 ABG Commander and SMC/JA. If circumstances do not
     allow advance notice, the 61 ABG/CC and the on-call Judge Advocate will be notified as soon as
     possible after the service of process has been completed.
         2.5.2.1. Actions taken by 61 SFS and/or the AFOSI in assisting the process server serving an
         arrest or search or seizure warrant will depend on the circumstances. Using normal law
         enforcement factors, such as personal safety, classified information protection, flight risk, seri-
         ousness of the alleged offense and potential for violence, 61 SFS and/or AFOSI will design a
         plan for the best way to serve the individual. That plan will be coordinated with the process
         server.
         2.5.2.2. 61 SFS and/or the AFOSI will escort the process server anywhere on LAAFB neces-
         sary to accomplish the service of process according to the plan. After the process server fin-
         ishes service of process or otherwise decides not to pursue the service of process, 61 SFS and/
         or the AFOSI will escort the process server off LAAFB.
     2.5.3. State Custody Requests. For delivery of military personnel to civilian custody to answer
     civilian criminal charges, process according to Article 14, UCMJ and AFI 51-1001, Delivery of
     Personnel to United States Civilian Authorities for Trial.
  2.6. Service of Process for Government Property or Records. After the process is reviewed by a
  judge advocate for the signature of the judge, the authority/jurisdiction of the court, and compliance
  with applicable statutes and implementing instructions, the reviewing judge advocate will telephoni-
  cally contact the property/records custodian and explain the situation. Requests for records protected
  by the Privacy Act will only be honored if ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction and signed by
  a judge; a signature by a party’s attorney is not sufficient. Any request for protected information not
  conforming with the law will be returned to the process server.
  61 SFS will then escort the process server to the custodian in order to accomplish the service of pro-
  cess.
  2.7. Writs of Garnishment, Wage Assignments, and Involuntary Allotments.
     2.7.1. DFAS Cleveland processes all court ordered garnishment for child support, alimony and
     commercial debts for all military members and all civilian employees paid by DFAS, plus court
     ordered divisions of military retired pay under the Uniformed Services Former Spouses' Protec-
     tion Act. Direct process servers to either http://www.dod.mil/dfas/militarypay/garnish-
     ment.html or toll free at 1-866-859-1845 for current DFAS garnishment guidance.
     2.7.2. Process directed toward Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) civilian employees of the Base
     Exchange should be sent directly to:
                                Army and Air Force Exchange Service
                                Attention: Office of General Counsel
                                           P.O. Box 650062
                                           Dallas, TX 75265
4                                                                      SMCI51-301 21 AUGUST 2006


       2.7.3. Process for all other NAF civilian employees should be sent to:
                                        Office of Legal Counsel
                                       Air Force Services Agency
                                    10100 Reunion Place, Suite 503
                                     San Antonio, TX 78216-4138.
       2.7.4. Process for civilian contractor employees should be sent by the interested party directly to
       the corporate headquarters or main office of the specific employer.
    2.8. Repossession of Private Property. Only property surrendered voluntarily or repossessed in
    accordance with California Law will be removed from Los Angeles Air Force Base.
       2.8.1. Voluntary Repossession. Repossession of property on LAAFB by creditors and their
       agents without a court order authorizing the repossession will be accomplished as follows:
           2.8.1.1. After the repossession documents are reviewed by a judge advocate, the 61 SFS will
           contact the property owner by telephone and invite that person to SMC/JA in order to volun-
           tarily surrender the property.
           2.8.1.2. If the person whose property is being repossessed refuses to voluntarily surrender the
           property, 61 SFS will advise the person attempting to repossess the property accordingly. No
           further assistance will be provided to the repossessor. The repossessor will never be permitted
           to resort to “self help”, i.e., taking action to remove the property without the knowledge and
           consent of the owner, on LAAFB property. 61 SFS will escort the repossessor off LAAFB.
       2.8.2. Court Ordered Repossession.
           2.8.2.1. After review of the repossession documents by a judge advocate, 61 SFS will escort
           the repossessor to the property sought. It will be the obligation of the repossessor to know the
           approximate location of the property to be repossessed on LAAFB. No further assistance in
           locating the property on LAAFB will be given to the repossessor.
           2.8.2.2. 61 SFS will notify the property owner of the repossession after the repossessor has
           left LAAFB.
    2.9. Cases Not Covered. In cases not covered in any of the foregoing paragraphs, SMC/JA should be
    contacted for guidance.



                                               JOSEPH M. CODISPOTI, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 61st Air Base Group
