BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER
SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS                                         INSTRUCTION 20-103
CENTER
                                                                          15 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                       Logistics

                                                SYSTEMS DEPOT MAINTENANCE POLICY



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.epublishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SMC/PIL                                                             Certified by: SMC/SLG
                                                                          (Ms Gracie Wantland)
                                                                                        Pages: 43


This instruction establishes policies and procedures for the accomplishment of the Depot Source
of Repair (DSOR) and incorporates the Space Depot Level Maintenance policy and strategy for
planning and approving depot level maintenance workloads. This instruction applies to all SMC
acquired and/or managed systems. Compliance with this publication is mandatory. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
the AF Form 847 from the field through major command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. AIR FORCE DEPOT MAINTENANCE POLICY.
   1.1. The Air Force is committed to retaining a robust and affordable organic depot
   maintenance capability to support the warfighter while fulfilling the requirements of Title 10
   USC 2464 (Core Organic Capability) and Title 10 USC 2466 (50/50). Air Force Instruction
   (AFI) 63-101 mandates all systems that require hardware, software and/or cryptological
   depot level maintenance have an approved DSOR decision. This SMCI utilizes the AFMCI
   21-150 Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) Process for guidance on the DSOR process.
2                                                            SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011



2. SPACE STRATEGY FOR DEPOT LEVEL MAINTENANCE.
    2.1. This Space Depot Level Maintenance policy and strategy addresses the unique and
    complex nature of space systems and mission. It reaffirms SMC’s adherence to total life
    cycle support and establishes an organic depot level cadre of space maintenance capability,
    with emphasis on software support. It further establishes a standardized and strategic
    approach to early acquisition planning for depot level maintenance, accomplishing the DSOR
    process and developing effective long-term partnerships between industry and the
    government depots.
    2.2. The goal of the space strategy is to establish cost effective and well-defined partnerships
    for the life of the system through performance-based contracts, leveraging the strengths of
    both government and industry by optimizing software and hardware depot level maintenance
    tasks to be performed by the contractor(s) and/or government depot(s). Even though DSOR
    approval is required for each new space system/subsystem, the process and analysis for
    completing the DSOR will be standardized. By pre-defining the scope of the government
    depot repair tasks, the Space DSOR will be less resource intensive.
    2.3. The space strategy also helps build a core space capability at the government depots and
    supports the overall Air Force level of effort to manage and comply with Title 10 USC 2464
    & 2466. The space strategy was developed in conjunction with the government depots by
    looking across the entire Air Force Program Executive Officer for Space (AFPEO/SP)
    portfolio to determine which software and hardware depot level maintenance tasks/activities
    should be accomplished by the government depots in partnerships with industry. The vision
    includes:
       2.3.1. Increasing organic software maintenance competency to provide greater organic
       workload opportunities.
       2.3.2. Implementing performance-based sustainment contracts with multiple
       partnerships; pursuing the inclusion of both levels of maintenance on ―Performance
       Based Logistics-Space‖ (PBL-S) contracts; and reducing DSOR processing time by 75%.
    2.4. The Space Strategy for Depot Level Maintenance will be executed in phases. The first
    phase establishes a standardized list of desired organic ―space‖ competencies by User
    Segment, Ground Segment and Space Segment, building an organic space core capability at
    the government depots for hardware and software. These tasks, conceived in coordination
    with Army and Air Force depots, start with opportunities for early success – repair tasks that
    leverage the government depots’ strengths and allow them to develop space domain
    knowledge. Subsequent phases of the strategy will add more tasks to the list as the
    government depots gain experience with space systems. Due to the nature of space systems,
    the strategy will provide the greatest opportunity for growth in the software sustainment area,
    but will also benefit hardware and cryptological workloads. The Space Logistics Group
    (SMC/SLG) is the OPR for this strategy; the Acquisition Logistics Division (SMC/PIL) will
    continue providing oversight of maintenance policy planning and strategy execution.
    2.5. The main tenets of the Space Strategy for Depot Level Maintenance include greater
    involvement of government depots in acquisition planning, standardized Request for
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                3


  Proposal (RFP) language and acquisition strategy approval by the AFPEO/SP and Milestone
  Decision Authority (MDA).
     2.5.1. Inclusion of the HQ AFMC assigned candidate government depots in early Phase
     A acquisition planning, to include participation in meetings such as Industry Days,
     System Requirements Reviews (SRRs), System Design Reviews (SDRs), Preliminary
     Design Reviews (PDRs), Critical Design Reviews (CDRs), Technical Interchange
     Meetings (TIMs), Logistics Working Groups, etc.
     2.5.2. Standardized Request for Proposal (RFP) language (Attachment 5) to ensure that
     Public Private Partnership (PPP) is thoroughly addressed in each contractor proposal
     (based on the pre-defined hardware and software task lists) and that a pre-priced option
     for access to the data required for government depot activation for the sustainment of
     space software, hardware and crypto is included in each contractor proposal.
     2.5.3. AFPEO/SP and MDA approval of Air Force Space or SMC DSOR acquisition
     strategies prior to Milestone B.
3. SPACE DEPOT SOURCE OF REPAIR (DSOR) PROCESS.
  3.1. General DSOR Policy and Guidelines
     3.1.1. All SMC acquired and/or managed systems (including Joint Programs) that require
     hardware, software and/or cryptological depot maintenance will have an approved
     DSOR. This includes systems/subsystems that are Commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) and
     Non-Developmental Items (NDI). The DSOR is designed to help ensure compliance
     with public law; Title 10 USC 2460 (Depot Maintenance), Title 10 USC 2464 (Core
     Organic Capability), Title 10 USC 2466 (DoD contract depot maintenance < 50%
     annually), Title 10 USC 2469 (Competition for workload shifts greater than or equal to
     $3M), and Title 10 USC 2474 (contractor/organic depot partnering), as well as achieving
     a best value depot maintenance repair concept. The Program Manager (PM) will ensure
     the DSOR is accomplished in accordance with this SMCI, all applicable DoD, Air Force
     and AFSPC Instructions, as well as DoDI 5000.02 or National Security Space
     Acquisition Policy Interim Guidance, as applicable.
        3.1.1.1. The DSOR process focuses solely on depot level maintenance activities. The
        final results of this process will become part of the overall system’s Maintenance
        Plan. It is important that the Wing or Group responsible for the acquisition of the
        system/subsystem work closely with the using command(s) and government depots to
        develop an overall maintenance strategy that meets the system’s operational
        requirements.
     3.1.2. There are no waivers from accomplishing the DSOR process.
     3.1.3. DSOR strategy approval shall be obtained from the MDA prior to Milestone B and
     before entering into any form of long-term contract for public or private sector depot
     support of Space systems.
        3.1.3.1. Funds shall not be obligated for establishing a long-term depot level
        maintenance capability prior to the DSOR assignment decision and approval.
4                                                       SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


    3.1.4. SMC policy for all acquired and/or managed systems/subsystems is to
    aggressively pursue strong PPPs between the organic depots and contractors early in the
    acquisition life cycle. Therefore, PPP must be a major focus area of the DSOR and
    product support planning activities and shall be formally documented in all logistics
    planning documents. PPPs will be pursued to provide best value performance for depot
    support.
       3.1.4.1. All SMC RFPs must include the appropriate inputs (see Attachment 5 for
       sample language) to ensure that the offerors address a PPP strategy in their proposals.
       3.1.4.2. The PM shall ensure the estimated costs associated with government depot
       ramp-up and transition to partnering for hardware, software and cryptological depot
       level maintenance are included in the Phase A Cost Analysis Requirements
       Description (CARD).
    3.1.5. All SMC RFPs for acquisitions shall include a pre-priced option for long-term
    access to and delivery of the appropriate level of repair data required to fully support
    organic depot activation. Unless there is a specific requirement for a program to
    purchase a full reprocurement data package (and thus own full data rights), SMC
    programs shall ensure a pre-priced option is included in the contract for access to the
    engineering/technical data, including updates, required for government hardware and
    software depot level repair.
       3.1.5.1. The PM shall ensure that the estimated cost for acquiring the required data
       rights, access, and delivery (as indicated IAW acquisition strategy), along with
       associated unique support and test equipment, for both hardware and software depot
       level maintenance is included in the Phase A CARD.
    3.1.6. The areas requiring DSOR documentation and approval are new and fielded depot
    workloads, modifications, workload shifts, overseas workloads and non-AF Primary
    Inventory Control Activity (PICA) workloads.
       3.1.6.1. New and Fielded Depot Workloads – This includes COTS and NDI
       systems/subsystems. Depot maintenance strategies may include but are not limited to:
           3.1.6.1.1. Organic Support - Long-term depot support accomplished at
           government-owned and operated facilities by government employees.
           3.1.6.1.2. Contract Support - Long-term contractor depot support, to include
           warranty or another similar approach that involves contractor performance of
           depot level maintenance activities.
           3.1.6.1.3. Public-Private Partnership (PPP) – Partnership between organic
           depot(s) and contractor(s). The intent of PPP is to leverage the strengths of
           industry and organic depots to provide the most effective support to the warfighter
           at the best value. PPP must be a major focus area in product support planning
           activities for both new and existing systems.
       3.1.6.2. Modifications (Installation and Follow-on Repair) - Modification of new or
       upgraded capability including hardware and/or software. This includes installation
       costs (not kit procurement costs) and the new repair workload associated with the
       modification. Modifications generally introduce new components or create altered
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                 5


        components that will require follow-on depot maintenance. When a modification
        introduces one or more of these components, it is necessary to complete the DSOR to
        determine where the follow-on depot maintenance will be performed.
            3.1.6.2.1. A DSOR is not required when the modification is to be accomplished
            in conjunction with scheduled depot maintenance (e.g. PDM - Programmed Depot
            Maintenance) at the original SOR as determined by the original, approved DSOR.
            Additionally, a DSOR is not required for modifications that do not change the
            form, fit, function, part number of the component being modified, or version
            (dash number change), as long as the original SOR of the end-item, as established
            by the original, approved DSOR decision, does not change.
        3.1.6.3. Workload Shifts - A permanent depot workload shift (organic to contractor,
        contractor to organic and organic to organic). Note that shifts of depot workloads
        greater than or equal to $3M must comply with the requirements of Title 10 USC
        2469.
        3.1.6.4. Overseas Workloads - The DSOR is required for any new start, modification,
        or shift in DSOR that involves the potential for depot-level maintenance to be
        accomplished by a source outside of the United States.
        3.1.6.5. When the Air Force is not the lead acquisition service, a DSOR addressing
        Air Force assets is still required.
     3.1.7. All systems within the AFPEO/SP portfolio and SMC acquired and/or managed
     systems require approval prior to establishing or changing any form of interim and/or
     long-term depot level support (contract to organic, organic to contract, partnership,
     warranties, etc.) for new and fielded systems. Note: A new DSOR is not required for a
     shift from one contract source to another contract source unless the shift would move the
     workload to an OCONUS source.
  3.2. Space DSOR Approval Process .
     3.2.1. The DSOR process is a required discussion item at all Acquisition Strategy Panel
     (ASP) meetings. Discussion topics will include the DSOR status, any issues identified,
     and prior to Milestone B, the final DSOR decision as well as the Joint Depot
     Maintenance Activity Group (JDMAG) Depot Maintenance Interservicing (DMI) study
     results.
        3.2.1.1. DSOR is a two-part process which consists of (1) the Strategic Source of
        Repair (SSOR)/Source of Repair Process (SORAP) and (2) the DMI process. The
        SSOR and/or SORAP are used to identify the preferred DSOR (organic or contract).
        The end process of a SSOR and/or SORAP is a determined DSOR location for a
        particular workload prior to submittal to the DMI process.
            3.2.1.1.1. The SSOR is accomplished for new acquisitions or modifications. It
            will be initiated in early Phase A of the system acquisition. The program office
            initiates the SSOR by completing Template A, Phase 1 and submitting it via the
            DSOR Assignment Management System (AMS). A follow-on SORAP may be
            required if further refinement to the SSOR is necessary.
6                                                        SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


               3.2.1.1.1.1. The SSOR results will be included in the Acquisition Strategy
               Panel (ASP) discussions/decisions in preparation for Phase B as well as the
               associated RFP. Space SSORs may require follow-on SORAPs to be
               accomplished, depending upon any changes with regards to the SSOR
               determination, which is identified later in the acquisition cycle of the program.
           3.2.1.1.2. The SORAP is used for depot maintenance workloads that have not
           been postured prior to the release of the Phase B RFP.
           3.2.1.1.3. The DMI Study is the joint service review/study process. The DSOR is
           introduced by AFMC to the JDMAG to determine whether a DoD depot repair
           capability already exists (Air Force, Army, Navy or Marines). Optimal solution is
           to have the DMI Study results prior to developing the Phase B acquisition
           strategy.
    3.2.2. The Depot Maintenance Activation Working Group (DMAWG) will be
    established in phase A to begin detailed depot planning to carry through Phase B. The
    DMAWG will consist of at a minimum, representatives from the program office and the
    ALC. An implementation plan will be generated to carry out the DSOR decision. If
    during the process, an alternative solution is agreed upon and justification provided, a
    workload shift may be done. A separate SORAP will only be required if the DMAWG
    implementation planning recommends material changes or workload shifts.
    3.2.3. For Joint Programs where the Air Force is the lead service, the PM will ensure that
    all services’ Title 10 requirements are considered in the final DSOR recommendation
       3.2.3.1. HQ AFMC cannot assess other services’ Title 10 requirements. For this
       reason each appropriate service’s authority (equivalent to HQ AFMC/A4) must assess
       how the DSOR recommendation will affect their own Title 10 compliance and
       provide a memo, to be included in the programs DSOR package, stating the impact of
       the DSOR recommendation on that service’s Title 10 2464 and 2466 compliance.
       3.2.3.2. Although Interim Contractor Support (ICS) may be used as an interim
       solution, no contractual commitments that require additional government fiscal
       investment for any type of long-term depot repair posture will be entered into until
       the DSOR decision has been coordinated and approved. This includes warranties and
       extended service contracts.
           3.2.3.2.1. ICS is used to only perform short-term depot-level repair (typically 1 to
           4 years) until a permanent long-range depot concept is approved and established.
       3.2.3.3. SMC/PK will reference its ―New Contract/New Work Supplemental
       Agreement‖ and RFP checklist to ensure ICS approval and/or DSOR approval has
       been received prior to contract award for both new acquisitions and modifications.
       3.2.3.4. For workload shifts and ACAT modifications, the DSOR shall be initiated
       prior to entering into any long-term contracts (including warranties) for depot level
       repair and/or before initiating the modification or workload shift and prior to
       Milestone B.
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                    7


   3.3. SMC DSOR Package Review, Coordination and Approval Guidelines.
       3.3.1. SMC DSOR packages will include the following:
HQ AFMC Candidate Depot Assignment Memo
HQ AFMC SSOR Assessment (i.e. Core Workload Assessment)
DSOR Template (Includes SOR Recommendation and Signatures) See AFMCI 21-150, when
published, for templates and guidance on completing the templates. Until the AFMCI 21-150 is
published, contact SMC/PIL for templates and guidance.
Partnering Strategy (top level description of proposed PPP strategy)
Joint Group-Depot Maintenance (JG-DM) Forms
           3.3.1.1. SMC DSOR packages will be submitted with the appropriate JG-DM forms
           completed, for the DoD required DMI Study.
           3.3.1.2. The DSOR package will include the ―Partnering Strategy‖ if applicable. The
           Partnering Agreement (aka the Partnering ―Contract‖) can be finalized after the
           DSOR approval and will include all the associated details and responsibilities to be
           carried out by the contractor(s) and government depot(s) to fulfill the approved
           DSOR Recommendation via the partnership.
       3.3.2. The following guidelines will be used to process all DSOR review and approval
       requests through the Center Commander (SMC/CC), HQ AFMC, JDMAG, AFPEO/SP
       and MDA:
           3.3.2.1. Notify SMC/PIL when the DSOR process is initiated. PIL will provide
           support with the latest information on the DSOR process.
           3.3.2.2. The DSOR package will be signed by the following offices: Wing or
           Group/CC, each candidate government depot(s), SMC/CC, HQ AFMC/A4.
           3.3.2.3. The Wing or Group/CC signs the DSOR package and forwards it to the
           candidate government depot(s) for concurrence and signature.
           3.3.2.4. After the candidate government depots have signed the DSOR package, the
           Wing/CC or Group/CC reviews the DSOR concurrences and/or non-concurrences.
           3.3.2.5. If the candidate government depot(s) non-concur(s) with the DSOR
           recommendation, the Wing or Group should make an attempt to resolve any
           disconnects, and should be prepared to address government depot non-concurrence in
           the SMC/CC DSOR review. This should be a rare occurrence since the Space
           Strategy for Depot Maintenance requires the candidate government depots to be
           included in the development of the DSOR early in acquisition Phase A.
       3.3.3. Wing or Group prepares a Staff Summary Sheet (SSS) to coordinate the DSOR
       package up to SMC/CC for review and signature. The DSOR package should be
       coordinated through any other appropriate Wing or Group functionals to include PK, FM,
       Logistics, Sustainment, etc. See Attachment 4 for SMC coordination/signature flow.
           3.3.3.1. SMC/CC signs the DSOR and the Wing/Group forwards it to HQ AFMC for
           concurrence.
 8                                                       SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


         3.3.3.2. HQ AFMC reviews and returns the signed DSOR with concurrence or non-
         concurrence and (with rationale) to the Wing or Group. Note: As the AF executive
         manager for DSOR, HQ AFMC/CC has delegated the review and process of
         submitted DSOR packages (IAW AFI 63-101) to AFMC/A4.
         3.3.3.3. If during the coordination/signatory process not all parties agree on the
         recommended approach, then a meeting to resolve between the program office and
         applicable dissenting office will take place. If a resolution cannot be made, then the
         DSOR command lead office (HQ AFSPC/A4/7) will arbitrate between program
         office, SMC leadership, and HQ AFMC as applicable to come to an agreed approach.
      3.3.4. HQ AFMC forwards the JG-DM forms to the JDMAG for DMI Study and
      forwards the results to the Wing or Group when the DMI Study is completed.
      3.3.5. Final DSOR strategy approval shall be obtained from the AFPEO/SP and MDA
      prior to Milestone B. The results (SMC/CC recommendation, government depot(s)
      concurrence/non-concurrence and HQ AFMC concurrence/non-concurrence), to include
      the DMI Study results and Service Title 10 assessments for Joint Programs, must be
      presented to the AFPEO/SP and MDA for review and the for acquisition strategy
      approval before the final DSOR approval can be made. The AFPEO/SP and MDA will
      use the DSOR and DMI Study results as the basis for the final depot source of repair
      acquisition strategy decision.
         3.3.5.1. Prior to Milestone B, the final DSOR Package with the candidate depot’s
         concurrence/non-concurrence, HQ AFMC’s concurrence/non-concurrence and the
         JDMAG DMI Study results will be presented to the AFPEO/SP and MDA for final
         DSOR acquisition strategy approval.
         3.3.5.2. In the event that the AFPEO/SP and/or MDA does not agree with the
         recommended DSOR strategy, senior leaders (i.e. MDA, AFPEO/SP, HQ AFSPC and
         HQ AFMC) will meet to discuss, reach an agreement, and if required, a workload
         shift will be initiated.
         3.3.5.3. Programs not required to convene an ASP must still provide the AFPEO/SP
         and MDA with HQ AFMC’s concurrence of the DSOR recommendation and the
         JDMAG DMI Study results for acquisition strategy approval.

Figure 1. DSOR Approval Cycle.
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                      9




4. PERFORMANCE-BASED LOGISTICS (PBL) APPLIED TO THE DSOR PROCESS.
      4.1. Performance-Based Logistics.
         4.1.1. PBL is DoD’s preferred product support method, and the current overarching
         concept describing the recommended system support approach. DoD policy* states,
         ―PMs shall develop and implement PBL strategies that optimize total system availability
         while minimizing cost and logistics footprint. … Sustainment strategies shall include the
         best use of public and private sector capabilities...‖ The essence of PBL is including the
         appropriate tailored performance metrics on contract, and in Performance-Based
         Agreements (PBAs) for organic support providers, to match the level and type of support
         provided by the support source.
         4.1.2. The main tenet of PBL is to ensure that all support tasks, strategies, and plans
         directly support system performance and availability, reduce the logistics footprint, and
         minimize life cycle support costs. PBL shall begin to be assessed during the mission
         need and system definition phases, and assessed and implemented vigorously during the
         system design phase. PBL strategies and agreements selected shall be implemented
         during the production and early operations and support phases. PMs shall select the
         optimum mix of public and private support providers, or partnerships between the two,
         for the subject system.
         4.1.3. All decisions shall be assessed via trade studies and supported by a Business Case
         Analysis (BCA) proving the selected strategies and decisions are optimal. The BCA shall
         be initially accomplished as early as possible but no later than Phase B and updated
         before each milestone. BCAs shall be correlated to the DSOR analysis and the Cost
         Benefit Analysis (CBA). PMs shall carefully and judiciously apply and tailor PBL
         methods to their specific program, using sound business judgment and analysis.
         4.1.4. PMs will include performance metrics on contracts and in PBAs with organic
         support providers. Incentivizing system and sustainment management performance via
         awards or incentives also constitutes a PBL contract. PMs shall pursue the two primary
         PBL objectives. First, the system should be designed and maintained to reduce the
         demand for logistics support. Second, systems support shall be effective and efficient.
         The PM and system engineer shall ensure all weapon systems contracts include
         requirements for system design and/or support features that comply with OUSD/AT&L
         directive to improve and measure the following as a minimum ―Total Life Cycle System
         Management‖ Metrics:
          a. Improve Operational Availability, Improve Mission Reliability
          b. Reduce Cost per Unit of Usage
          c. Reduce Logistics Footprint
          d. Reduce Logistics Response Time



*
    DoD Directive 5000.1, E1.17
 10                                                        SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


These are the minimum systems support management metrics that all system managers must
continuously address throughout life cycle management.
Note: System life cycle support costs and the complexity and quantity of support requirements
and infrastructure are mainly derived from the allocated system/sub-system design, so the
support requirements can only be optimized and minimized as a result of decisions made during
the system requirements and design phases. PMs shall establish a support structure based on
performance agreements/contracts with clear lines of authority and responsibility.
       4.1.5. PBL requires tailored performance metrics be defined and included in all
       requirements for system support, whether the support provider is a government
       organization, a contractor, or a partnership between the two. Support efforts requiring
       PBL performance metrics may include supply support only at one end of the PBL
       spectrum and total system operations, maintenance, engineering, and modification
       support at the other end of the PBL spectrum, and everything in-between. Include the
       appropriate tailored performance metrics in the contract for contract support efforts, and
       in a PBA for organic support efforts provided by a government source. The applied
       performance metrics must be within the control of the support provider and tailored to the
       scope of the support effort.
       4.1.6. The primary current sources for direction, guidance and methods used in PBL
       implementation are:
       a. DoD Directive (DoDD) 5000.1, The Defense Acquisition System.
       b. AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Lifecycle Management.
       c. PBL Strategy Guidance, HAF A4/A7 and SAF/AQ Joint Memo, June 2006.
       d. The PBL Toolkit:
       https://acc.dau.mil/simplify/ev.php?ID=29497_201&ID2=DO_TOPIC.
       e. Defense Acquisition University (DAU) Performance-Based Logistics (PBL): A
       Program Manager’s Product Support Guide, dated March 2005.
       f. Defense Acquisition Guidebook, chapter 5.3.1, Methodology for Implementing PBL.
   4.2. SMC Performance Based Logistics for Space (PBL-S).
       4.2.1. PBL-S is an AFSO21, AFPEO/SP and PBL initiative that seeks to realize
       efficiencies and facilitate creation of objective measures by sourcing/acquiring
       Organizational Level (O–Level) Maintenance, Depot Level (D-Level) Maintenance (Mx),
       Sustaining Engineering, Sustainment Support, and System Modifications and Upgrades
       through a single contract. Since many AFSPC Operational Wings require on-site depot
       level Mx capability on an almost daily basis, and both SMC System Wings and AFSPC
       Operational Wings are in the same MAJCOM, combining O-Level contract Mx, D-Level
       contract Mx and Modification contracts into a single contract with a single contractor
       team/partnering arrangement can create synergies, cost savings, sharing of personnel
       resources, reduction in the Logistics Footprint, and improved efficiency and effectiveness
       of system sustainment. A single prime contractor rather than multiple competing and
       conflicting contractors facilitates the ability to create and monitor high-level objective
       performance measures for the system; thus fulfilling the intent of PBL. SMC
       PMs/SPMs/SSMs will assess the value of implementing PBL-S for their assigned
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                               11


     systems as part of the PBL BCA and seek HQ AFSPC and Operational Wing concurrence
     in implementing PBL-S if the BCA indicates benefits.
5. GOVERNMENT DEPOT TASK LISTS.
  5.1. The Space Strategy for Depot Level Maintenance establishes a standardized and
  strategic approach to early acquisition planning for depot level maintenance, accomplishing
  the DSOR Process and developing effective long-term partnerships between industry and the
  government depots. It also builds a core space capability at the government depots and
  supports the overall Air Force level effort to manage and comply with Title 10 USC 2464 &
  2466. The space strategy was developed in conjunction with the government depots by
  looking across the entire AFPEO/SP portfolio (as well as Joint User Equipment SMC
  programs that fall outside the AFPEO/SP portfolio) to determine which software and
  hardware depot level maintenance tasks/activities should be accomplished by the government
  depots in partnerships with industry.




                                          LOUIS M. JOHNSON, GS-15
                                          Director, Space Logistics Directorate
 12                                                     SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMC— Air Force Materiel Command
AFPEO/SP—- Air Force Program Executive Officer for Space
AFSO21— Air Force Smart Operations 21
AFSPC— Air Force Space Command
ALC— Air Logistics Center
AT&L— Acquisition Technology and Logistics
BCA— Business Case Analysis
CAE— Component Acquisition Executive
CBA— Cost Benefit Analysis
CARD— Cost Analysis Requirements Description
CC— Commander
CDR— Critical Design Review
CLS— Contractor Logistics Support
COTS— Commercial off-the-shelf
CPARS— Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System
DAU— Defense Acquisition University
DCAA— Defense Contract Audit Agency
DCMA— Defense Contract Management Agency
D-Level—Depot Level
DMAG— Depot Maintenance Activity Group
DMI— Depot Maintenance Interservicing
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI— Department of Defense Instruction
DSOR— Depot Source of Repair
D/TOs— Delivery / Task Orders
e.g.— for example
etc.— etcetera; meaning ―and so forth‖
FAD— Funding Assignment Document
EMA— Expectations Management Agreement
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                         13


GFP— Government Furnished Property
GFS/S— Government Furnished Supplies and Services
HAF— Headquarters Air Force
HQ— Headquarters
IA— Including Associated
IAW— In Accordance With
ICP— Inventory Control Points
ICS— Interim Contractor Support
IOC— Initial Operations Capability
i.e.— id est; meaning ―that is‖
JDMAG— Joint Depot Maintenance Activity Group
JG—DM – Joint Group-Depot Maintenance
KDP— Key Decision Point
JSPO— Joint Space Program Office
LCMP— Lifecycle Sustainment Plan
MAJCOM— Major Command
MDA— Milestone Decision Authority
MX— Maintenance
NDI— Non-Developmental Items
NSS— National Security Space
O&M— Operations and Maintenance
O—Level – Organization Level
OUSD— Office of the Undersecretary of Defense
PA— Partnering Agreement
PBL— Performance-Based Logistics
PBL—S – Performance-Based Logistics for Space
PCO— Procurement Contracting Officer
PDR— Preliminary Design Review
PICA— Primary Inventory Control Activity
PM— Program Manager
PPP— Public-Private Partnership
RFP— Request for Proposal
 14                                                        SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


SAF— Secretary of the Air Force
SECAF— Secretary of the Air Force
SLA— Service Level Agreement
SLG— Space Logistics Group
SMC— Space and Missile Systems Center
SMCI— Space and Missile Systems Center Instruction
SOO— Statement of Objectives
SORAP— Source Of Repair Assignment Process
SSOR— Strategic Source of Repair
SSR— Systems Requirement Review
SSS— Staff Summary Sheet
SDR— System Design Review
TIM— Technical Interchange Review

Terms
Acceptance— An action by an authorized representative of the acquirer by which the acquirer
assumes ownership of a product(s) as partial or complete performance of a contract.
Acceptance Test Procedure (ATP)— Preparations, test cases, and test procedures to be used
for CSCI acceptance testing and the traceability between the test cases and the CSCI
requirements. The result shall include all applicable items in the Software Test Description
(STD).
Analysis of Tool Sets— A detailed study of the hardware and software tools required to support
the software engineering environment, including a list of all equipment, applications, platforms,
licensing agreements and usages. This analysis is required to establish an appropriate software
engineering environment for maintenance purposes.
Archive— To store safely for future reference or use. Typically archives are configured, that is,
all data submitted, stored, modified and requested are uniquely identified, monitored and
controlled by a configuration manager.
Build— (1) A version of software that meets a specified subset of the requirements that the
completed software will meet. (2) The period of time during which such a version is developed.
Note: The relationship of the terms "build" and "version" is up to the developer; for example, it
may take several versions to reach a build, a build may be released in several parallel versions
(such as to different sites), or the terms may be used as synonyms.
Causal Analysis— A detailed study of the data generated during the software
development/maintenance process to determine the source of and methods of removing common
causes of defects, process bottlenecks, and other process impediments.
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                     15


Certification and Accreditation— The official management decision given by a senior agency
official to authorize operation of an information system and to explicitly accept the risk to
agency operations, agency assets, or individuals based on the implementation of an agreed-upon
set of security controls.
CMMI Support (EPG)— Group and Squadron level support for the Engineering Process Group
and Extended Engineering Process Group. The EPG/EEPG is ―a collection of specialists who
facilitate the definition, maintenance, and improvement of process(es) used by the organization.‖
Computer Program Configuration Item Specification (CSCI)— An aggregation of software
that satisfies an end use function and is designated for separate configuration management by the
acquirer. CSCIs are selected based on tradeoffs among software function, size, host or target
computers, developer, support concept, plans for reuse, criticality, interface considerations, need
to be separately documented and controlled, and other factors.
Configuration Control— An element of configuration management consisting of the
evaluation, coordination, approval or disapproval, and implementation of changes to
configuration items after formal establishment of their configuration identification.
Configuration Item— An aggregation of hardware, software, or both that satisfies an end use
function and is designated for separate configuration management by the acquirer.
Configuration Item Specification— Documentation describing a configuration item, including
how it interfaces with a system.
Cost Benefit Analysis— Analyzes whether the recommended source of repair is the best value
alternative for the life of the system.
Design— Those characteristics of a system or CSCI that are selected by the developer in
response to the requirements. Some will match the requirements; others will be elaborations of
requirements, such as definitions of all error messages in response to a requirement to display
error messages; others will be implementation related, such as decisions about what software
units and logic to use to satisfy the requirements.
Critical Design Review— A multi-disciplined technical review to ensure that the system under
review can proceed into system fabrication, demonstration, and test; and can meet the stated
performance requirements within cost (program budget), schedule (program schedule), risk, and
other system constraints. Generally this review assesses the system final design as captured in
product specifications for each configuration item in the system (product baseline), and ensures
that each product in the product baseline has been captured in the detailed design documentation.
Deployment/Site Activation— Delivery and installation of the executable software, and initial
execution of the software to ensure proper functionality.
Documentation — A collection of data, regardless of the medium on which it is recorded, that
generally has permanence and can be read by humans or machines.
Evaluation— The process of determining whether an item or activity meets specified criteria.
Documenting As—Built Systems – Researching systems as they exist at operational sites,
defining requirements, design, functionality, hardware configurations, etc. and documenting
system, subsystem, and functional capabilities.
 16                                                          SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


Duplication and Distribution— Copying (as many times as necessary) and delivering the
software product to operational sites.
Engineering Change Proposal— A formal process used to propose a change to a configuration
item and it's approved baselined performance requirement and configuration documentation.
Engineering Data Control— The process of applying policies, systems and procedures for
identification and control of engineering data requirements; for the timely and economical
acquisition of such data; for assuring the adequacy of data; for the access, distribution or
communication of the
data to the point of use; and for analysis of data use. Engineering data is defined as recorded
information regardless of the form or method of recording.
Engineering Release System— A collection of the hardware and software components,
documentation, processes and procedures of a system required to ensure capability and
functional requirements are met prior to delivery of the product(s) to the customer.
Environmental Studies— Analysis of the environment in which a software product is
developed, distributed and utilized.
Equipment Requirements— Analysis and definition of the minimum essential capabilities of
hardware being utilized in a software system or in the production environment of the software
system.
Facilities Definition— The process of defining needed floor space, power requirements, HVAC
requirements, security requirements, personnel requirements, etc. for supporting a specific
software workload.
Factory Acceptance Test (FAT)— Factory acceptance testing generally involves the developer
running a suite of tests on the completed system. Each individual test, known as a case, exercises
a particular operating condition of the user's environment or feature of the system, and will result
in a pass or fail Boolean outcome. There is generally no degree of success or failure. The test
environment is usually designed to be identical, or as close as possible, to the anticipated user's
environment, including extremes of such. These test cases must each be accompanied by test
case input data or a formal description of the operational activities (or both) to be performed—
intended to thoroughly exercise the specific case—and a formal description of the expected
results.
Functional Configuration Audit— The formal examination of functional characteristics of a
configuration item, or system to verify that the item has achieved the requirements specified in
its functional and/or allocated configuration documentation.
Hardware Design— The process of analyzing, selecting and procuring computers: the physical
equipment which makes up a computer system, e.g., terminals and storage devices, as opposed to
programming software and/or weapons: combat equipment and support equipment to meet
requirements.
Hardware Fabrication (Prototyping)— An article in final form employing standard parts,
representative of articles to be produced subsequently.
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                   17


Illustrated Parts Breakdown Manual— A document containing all the information necessary
to locate, and identify assemblies, sub-assemblies, and specific parts of a system. A listing of
models, types, configurations, modifications, task numbers, and series or blocks of the end item
covered by the manual.
Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V)— Systematic evaluation of software
products and activities by an agency that is not responsible for developing the product or
performing the activity being evaluated.
Integrated Product Teams— Team composed of representatives from appropriate functional
disciplines working together to build successful programs, identify and resolve issues, and make
sound and timely recommendations to facilitate decision making. There are three types of IPTs:
Overarching IPTs (OIPTs) that focus on strategic guidance, program assessment, and issue
resolution; Working-level IPTs (WIPTs) that identify and resolve program issues, determine
program status, and seek opportunities for acquisition reform; and Program-level IPTs (PIPTs)
that focus on program execution. These teams include representatives from both government
and industry (after contract award).
ICS— Interim contract support—A temporary support method for an initial period of operation
for a system, sub-system, training system, equipment, or end-item.
Lessons Learned— Capitalizing on past errors in judgment, materiel failures, wrong timing, or
other mistakes to ultimately improve a situation or system.
Long Lead Items Definition— Identifying those components of a system or piece of equipment
for which the times to design and fabricate are the longest, and therefore, to which an early
commitment of funds may be desirable in order to meet the earliest possible data of system
completion.
Life Cycle Sustainment Plan— The Life Cycle Sustainment Plan (LCSP) is the DODI 5000.02
mandated plan to address sustainment planning during the acquisition phases and sustainment
management execution during the operations and support life cycle phase. Refer to SMCI 20-
101 for guidance on developing the LCSP.
Maintenance Instructions Manual— Manual containing instructions for maintenance
performed on materiel requiring major overhaul or a complete rebuild of parts, assemblies,
subassemblies, and end items, including the manufacture of parts, modification, testing, and
reclamation as required.
Joint review— A process or meeting involving representatives of both the acquirer and the
developer, during which project status, software products, and/or project issues are examined and
discussed.
Meetings, Reviews & Audits (Support)— Attendance and participation in meetings (e.g.
Technical Interchange Meeting), reviews (e.g. Preliminary Design Review, Critical Design
Review), audits (e.g. Physical or Functional Configuration Audits).
 18                                                        SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


Milestone Decision Authority (MDA)— Milestone Decision Authority (MDA) - The individual
designated, in accordance with criteria established by the USD (AT&L), by the ASD (NII) for
Automated Information System acquisition programs; for approval entry of a DOD Space
program into the next acquisition phase, USecAF is the designated MDA for major defense
acquisition programs (MDAP) and for non-MDAP space programs, it is delegated to AFPEO
Space.
Modeling— A representation of an actual or conceptual system that involves mathematics,
logical expressions, or computer simulations that can be used to predict how the system might
perform or survive under various conditions or in a range of hostile environments.
Operational Instructions Manual— Document containing steps, processes, and procedures for
correctly operating a system.
Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E)— The field test, under realistic conditions, of any
item (or key component) of weapons, equipment, or munitions for the purpose of determining the
effectiveness and suitability of the weapons, equipment, or munitions for use in combat by
typical military users; and the evaluation of the results of such tests.
Partnering— Partnering arrangements include, but are not limited to: (1) use of public sector
facilities and employees to perform work or produce goods for the private sector, (2) private
sector use of public depot equipment and facilities to perform work for either the public or
private sector, and (3) work-sharing arrangements using both public and private sector facilities
and/or employees. Work-sharing arrangements share similar characteristics to customer-supplier
partnerships. Partnering arrangements exclude the normal service contracting arrangements
where contract personnel are used to supplement or assist depot personnel in performing work in
depot facilities.
Performance Reviews— A review of the operational and support characteristics of the system
to verify that is effectively and efficiently performing its assigned mission over time. The
support characteristics of the system include both supportability aspects of the design and the
support elements necessary for system operation. Also, a review of the performance of the
partners involved in the software sustainment effort, verifying that each is efficiently and
effectively performing their assigned roles, responsibilities and tasks.
Post Mortem— A process by which an institutional memory is developed as a set of best
practices that work for your own organization are meticulously recorded, what went right and
what went wrong over the course of a project.
Physical Configuration Audit— The formal examination of the "as-built" configuration of a
configuration item against its technical documentation to establish or verify the configuration
item's product baseline.
Preliminary Design Review— The PDR is a multi-disciplined technical review to ensure that
the system under review can proceed into detailed design, and can meet the stated performance
requirements within cost (program budget), schedule (program schedule), risk, and other system
constraints. Generally, this review assesses the system preliminary design as captured in
performance specifications for each configuration item in the system (allocated baseline), and
ensures that each function in the functional baseline has been allocated to one or more system
configuration items.
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                    19


Process— an organized set of activities performed for a given purpose; for example, the
software development process.
Product Delivery— The process of preparing, packaging, distributing and tracking the use of
project-produced artifacts to the end-user.
Production— The process of converting raw materials by fabrication into required material. It
includes the functions of production-scheduling, inspection, Quality Control (QC), and related
processes.
Production Management— The effective use of resources to produce on-schedule the required
number of end units that meet specified quality, performance, and cost. It includes, but is not
limited to, industrial resource analysis, producibility assessment, producibility engineering, and
planning, production engineering, industrial preparedness planning, postproduction planning, and
productivity enhancement.
Production Planning— The broad range of activities initiated early in the acquisition, process,
and continued through a production decision, to ensure an orderly transition from development to
cost-effective rate production or construction.
Production Readiness Review— The PRR examines a program to determine if the design is
ready for production and if the producer has accomplished adequate production planning. The
review examines risk; it determines if production or production preparations incur unacceptable
risks that might breach thresholds of schedule, performance, cost, or other established criteria.
The review evaluates the full, production-configured system to determine if it correctly and
completely implements all system requirements. The review determines whether the traceability
of final system requirements to the final production system is maintained.
Production Test and Evaluation (PT&E)— A technical test completed prior to the Full Rate
Production (FRP) decision to ensure the effectiveness of the manufacturing process, equipment,
and procedures. This testing also serves the purpose of providing data for the independent
evaluation required for product release so that the evaluator can address the adequacy of the
product with respect to the stated requirements.
Program Management— The process whereby a single leader exercises centralized authority
and responsibility for planning, organizing, staffing, controlling, and leading the combined
efforts of participating/assigned contractor and organic personnel and organizations, for the
management of a specific program or programs, throughout the system life cycle.
Program Management Review Participation— Participation in a formal review of the
program’s program management function.
Publication Validation and Verification— Validation: The process by which the contractor (or
as otherwise directed by the DoD Component procuring activity) tests a publication/Technical
Manual
(TM) for technical accuracy and adequacy. Verification: The process of evaluating a
publication/TM to determine whether the products of a given development phase satisfy the
requirements.
 20                                                           SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


Publication Certification and Verification— Certification: The process by which the
contractor (or as otherwise directed by the DoD Component procuring activity) tests a
publication/Technical Manual (TM) for technical accuracy and adequacy. Verification: The
process of evaluating a publication/TM to determine whether the products of a given
development phase satisfy the requirements.
Qualification Testing— testing performed to demonstrate to the acquirer that a CSCI or a
system meets its specified requirements.
Quality Assurance— A planned and systematic pattern of all actions necessary to provide
confidence that adequate technical requirements are established, that products and services
conform to established technical requirements, and that satisfactory performance is achieved.
Quality Assurance Program— A program which is developed, planned, and managed to carry
out, cost-effectively, all efforts to affect the quality of material and services from concept
through technology and system development, production, deployment, and disposal.
Quality Records— Data substantiating the level of quality of a software product, typically in
terms of the numbers and severity of unresolved defects found during acceptance testing.
Rapid Prototyping— The process of creating an incomplete model of the future full-featured
software program, which can be used to let the users have a first idea of the completed program
or allow the clients to evaluate the program.
Reliability, Maintainability Availability (RMA)— RMA refers to three related characteristics
of a system and its operational support: reliability, maintainability and availability. Reliability is
the probability of an item to perform a required function under stated conditions for a specified
period of time. Maintainability is the ability of an item to be retained in, or restored to, a
specified condition when maintenance is performed by personnel having specified skill levels,
using prescribed procedures and resources, at each prescribed level of maintenance and repair.
Availability is a measure of the degree to which an item is in an operable state and can be
committed at the start of a mission when the mission is called for at an unknown (random) point
in time.
Requirement—A characteristic that a system or CSCI must possess in order to be acceptable to
the acquirer, i.e. a mandatory statement.
Requirement Change Process— A formal process used to propose a change to a configured
requirement and its approved baselined documentation.
Requirements Definition— The process of identification and definition of needs or
characteristics that a system of CSCI must possess in order to be acceptable to the user.
Requirements/Tasks— A documented representation of a condition or capability that must be
met or possessed by a product or product component to satisfy a contract, standard, specification,
or other formally imposed documents.
Review Procedures/Processes— The discrete process of gathering and evaluating procedures
and processes to become familiar with the required steps, to determine if procedures and
processes from different organizations are compatible.
Risk Identification— A process to examine each requirement in program areas and also
examine critical technical processes to identify the associated risks.
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                       21


Risk Mitigation Plans/Processes— All plans and actions taken to identify, assess, mitigate, and
continuously track, control, and document program risks.
Risk Reporting— Sharing the results of actions taken to identify, assess, mitigate, and
continuously track, control and document program risks.
Simulation— A method for implementing a model. It is the process of conducting experiments
with a model for the purpose of understanding the behavior of the system modeled under
selected conditions or of evaluating various strategies for the operation of the system within the
limits imposed by developmental or operational criteria. Simulation may include the use of
analog or digital devices, laboratory models, or ―test bed‖ sites. Simulations are usually
programmed for solution on a computer; however, in the broadest sense, military exercises, and
war games are also simulations.
Software Code Review— A systematic examination (often as a peer review) of computer source
code intended to find and fix mistakes overlooked in the initial development phase, improving
overall quality of software and can also be used as a tool to better develop skills at the same time.
Software Design— A process of problem-solving and planning for a software solution.
Software Development— A set of activities that results in software products. Software
development may include new development, modification, reuse, reengineering, maintenance, or
any other activities that result in software products.
Software development file/folder (SDF)— Repository for material pertinent to the
development of a particular body of software. Contents typically include (either directly or by
reference) considerations, rationale, and constraints related to requirements analysis, design, and
implementation; developer-internal test information; and schedule and status information.
Software development library (SDL)— A controlled collection of software, documentation,
other intermediate and final software products, and associated tools and procedures used to
facilitate the orderly development and subsequent support of software.
Software development process— An organized set of activities performed to translate user
needs into software products.
Software engineering— In general usage, a synonym for software development. As used in this
standard, a subset of software development consisting of all activities except qualification
testing.
The standard makes this distinction for the sole purpose of giving separate names to the software
engineering and software test environments.
Software engineering environment— The facilities, hardware, software, firmware, procedures,
and documentation needed to perform software engineering. Elements may include but are not
limited to computer-aided software engineering (CASE) tools, compilers, assemblers, linkers,
loaders, operating systems, debuggers, simulators, emulators, documentation tools, and database
management systems.
Software product— Software or associated information created, modified, or incorporated to
satisfy a contract. Examples include plans, requirements, design, code, databases, test
information, and manuals.
Software quality— The ability of software to satisfy its specified requirements.
 22                                                          SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


Software support— The set of activities that takes place to ensure that software installed for
operational use continues to perform as intended and fulfill its intended role in system operation.
Software support includes software maintenance, aid to users, and related activities.
Software system— a system consisting solely of software and possibly the computer equipment
on which the software operates.
Software test environment— The facilities, hardware, software, firmware, procedures, and
documentation needed to perform qualification, and possibly other testing of software. Elements
may include but are not limited to simulators, code analyzers, test case generators, and path
analyzers, and may also include elements used in the software engineering environment.
Software transition— The set of activities that enables responsibility for software development
to pass from one organization, usually the organization that performs initial software
development, to another, usually the organization that will perform software support.
Software unit— An element in the design of a CSCI; for example, a major subdivision of a
CSCI, a component of that subdivision, a class, object, module, function, routine, or database.
Software units may occur at different levels of a hierarchy and may consist of other software
units. Software units in the design may or may not have a one-to-one relationship with the code
and data entities (routines, procedures, databases, data files, etc.) that implement them or with
the computer files containing those entities.
SORAP (DSOR) Support— Providing support for completion of the Source of Repair
Assignment Process (SORAP), a.k.a. Depot Source of Repair process.
Source Inspection— Visual examination of the item (hardware and software) and associated
descriptive documentation which compares appropriate characteristics with predetermined
standards
to determine conformance to requirements without the use of special laboratory equipment or
procedures.
Status Reporting using Metrics Contribution— Reporting of a project or program status at
critical points to evaluate progress and make recommendations to the decision authority. Status is
determined by analyzing metrics which have been gathered during project performance.
Subcontract Management— The process of tracking a contract or contractual action entered
into by a prime contractor or subcontractor for the purpose of obtaining supplies, materials,
equipment, or services under a prime contract.
Subsystem Design— Analysis, planning, and definition of a functional grouping of components
that combine to perform a major function within an element such as electrical power, attitude
control, and propulsion.
Subsystem Test— Functional testing of a functional grouping of components that combine to
perform a major function within an element such as electrical power, attitude control, and
propulsion.
System Design (including ICD Definition)— Analysis, planning and definition of interfaces of
an organization of hardware, software, material, facilities, personnel, data, and services needed to
perform a designated function with specified results, such as the gathering of specified data, its
processing, and delivery to users.
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                     23


Subsystem Design Review— Formal review of the interim product achieved by the analysis,
planning, and definition of a functional grouping of components that combine to perform a major
function within an element such as electrical power, attitude control, and propulsion.
System Design Review— Formal review of the interim product achieved by the analysis,
planning and definition of components and interfaces of an organization of hardware, software,
material, facilities, personnel, data, and services needed to perform a designated function with
specified results, such as the gathering of specified data, its processing, and delivery to users.
System Engineering— Processes and procedures used to improve the specification, design,
implementation and maintenance of complex software-intensive systems through the innovation
of new software engineering theories, processes, techniques and tools.
System Installation and Integration— Formal process of verifying software/hardware will
function properly.
System Integration Test— Formal process of verifying software functions properly across all
interfaces of the production system(s).
System Test— Conducted to ensure that performance requirements of the system specification
have been met. Demonstrates that the system satisfies the requirements in the functional and
allocated
baselines, confirms the completion of all incremental accomplishments for system verification
(e.g. Functional Configuration Audits (FCAs) for Configuration Items (CIs)), and confirms
readiness for production. Normally conducted during the Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP)
effort of the Production and Deployment (P&D) phase.
System Test Phase— Any time during which a System Test is being performed.
Technical Drawings— Technical information recorded in the form or medium of a drawing,
necessary to operate and maintain a defense system.
Technical Orders— A publication that contains instructions for the installation, operation,
maintenance, training, and support of weapon systems, weapon system components, and support
equipment. TO information may be presented in any form or characteristic, including but not
limited to hard copy, audio and visual displays, magnetic tape, discs, and other electronic
devices. A TO normally includes operational and maintenance instructions, parts lists or parts
breakdown, and related technical information or procedures exclusive of administrative
procedures.
Technical Performance Measures Contribution— Contribution to the effort of describing all
the activities undertaken to obtain project status beyond that treating schedule and cost. A TPM
manager operates as the product design assessment which estimates, through tests the values of
essential performance parameters of the current design of Work Breakdown Structure (WBS)
product elements.
Technology Insertion and Integration— The process or procedure of reducing technology risk
and determining the appropriate set of technologies to be integrated into the full system.
 24                                                         SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


Test— Any program or procedure which is designed to obtain, verify, or provide data for the
evaluation of any of the following: 1) progress in accomplishing developmental objectives; 2)
the performance, operational capability and suitability of systems, subsystems, components, and
equipment items; and 3) the vulnerability and lethality of systems, subsystems, components, and
equipment items.
Test Discrepancy/Deficiency/Service Reporting and Correction— The formal process of
identifying anomalies/errors in the function of a system, and assigning priority, responsibility,
and timeframe for implementing corrective action.
Test Readiness Review (TRR)— The TRR is a multi-disciplined technical review to ensure that
the subsystem or system under review is ready to proceed into formal test. The TRR assesses
test objectives, test methods and procedures, scope of tests, and safety and confirms that required
test resources have been properly identified and coordinated to support planned tests. The TRR
verifies the traceability of planned tests to program requirements and user needs. The TRR
determines the completeness of test procedures and their compliance with test plans and
descriptions. The TRR assesses the system under review for development maturity,
cost/schedule effectiveness, and risk to determine readiness to proceed to formal testing.
Time Compliance Technical Order— Directives issued to provide instructions to Air Force
activities for accomplishing ―one-time‖ changes, modifications, or inspections of equipment, or
installation of new equipment.
Trade—off Studies – Studies which assist in identification and selection among alternatives with
the intent of obtaining the optimal, achievable system configuration. Often a decision is made to
opt for less of one parameter in order to achieve a more favorable overall system result.
Trainers / Test Stands— The process of defining requirements, development environment,
equipment, etc. for producing a training platform and/or test stand which functions as a tool to
train system users, or verify the software functionality.
Transition Planning— The process of identifying and executing a transfer of responsibility for
a task from the prime performer to a secondary performer.
Unit Test— Executing a program or procedure which is designed to obtain, verify, or provide
data for the evaluation of a software component (unit).
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                            25


                                        Attachment 2
          ORGANIC CAPABILITIES SPACE SYSTEM TASK LIST – SOFTWARE.

                                                                        User
                                  Space ―Satellite‖   Command and
                                                                        Equipment/Terminal
                                  Segment             Control Segment
                                                                        Segment
Partnering Efforts
Support Meetings, Reviews
Transition Planning
IV&V and QA
Studies
IPTs
Causal Analysis
TPMs, Status Reporting, Risk ID
Design Definition/Planning
Software Coding (CR/DR)
Unit & Subsystem Test
Trainers/Test Stands
T.O. Verification
Deployment/Site Activation
CM
Req’s Definition
System Design
Long Lead Items
CM/DM, FCA/PCA
Subcontract Management
CPs
TOs & Manuals
H/W Design & Fab
Prod Del/Sys Int
Sys Eng
 26                                                         SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


                                           Attachment 3
          ORGANIC CAPABILITIES SPACE SYSTEM TASK LIST – HARDWARE

                                      Space ―Satellite‖                    User Equipment
                                                          Ground Segment
                                      Segment                              Segment
Partnering Efforts
Support Meetings, Reviews
Transition Planning
IV&V and QA
Studies
IPTs
Causal Analysis
Warranty for COTS equipment:
Warranty Contracts
All Ground Station Equipment
PDM/MDM/Tech Assist (all user
equip)
Depot Forward Repair Activities
COTS Equipment, GCE, etc.
Antenna Maintenance
Electrical/Mechanical Repair
Capabilities
MDM Support
All COTS/PC Items Supported: Cisco,
Dell, UN, HP, etc.
Full Eng Capabilities (Elec/Mech)
Sys Integration & Manufacturing
Program/Configuration Management
Design, Development & Sys
Engineering
Computer Aided Engineering
Engineering Documentation
Integrated Logistics Support
System Modifications/Upgrades
Interoperability Testing
Finite Element Analysis (FEA)
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                      27


                                          Attachment 4
             ROUTING OF SORAP FOR COORDINATION AND APPROVA

Coordinator / Signatory      (1) Staff Summary Sheet        (2) SORAP Package
Chief of Logistics           Coordinate                     ----------------------------------
SSM                          Coordinate                     ----------------------------------
Program Manager              Coordinate                     ----------------------------------
Wing CC                      ***                            Sign
Candidate Depot(s)           ---------------------------    Sign
Wing CC                      Coordinate
AFSPC/A4U                    Coordinate                     ----------------------------------
SMC/PI                       Coordinate                     ----------------------------------
SMC/SLG                      Coordinate                     ----------------------------------
***Wing CC signs SORAP and holds until Candidate Depot(s) concurrence is received
and reviewed.
Separate SSS is generated with above SSS as tab.

DS coordinates for the Wing as stated below.

Coordinator / Signatory      (1) Staff Summary Sheet        (2) SORAP Package
SMC/DS                       Coordinate                     ----------------------------------
SMC/CV                       Coordinate                     ----------------------------------
SMC/CD                       Coordinate                     ----------------------------------
                             Center Coordination
SMC/CC                       Complete                       Sign

Once the SORAP package is signed out by SMC/CC, it should be sent via the DSOR AMS to
HQ AFMC/A4 for signature.

Coordinator / Signatory      (1) Staff Summary Sheet        (2) SORAP Package
HQ AFMC/A4 & JDMAG           N/A                            Sign
                                                            DSOR (SSOR/SORAP &
                                                            DMI) Acquisition Strategy
AFPEO/SP and MDA             N/A                            Approval
For more details and latest coordination information, please contact SMC/PIL or reference the
SMC/PIL Maintenance Planning webpage hosted on the AF Portal.
 28                                                        SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


                                         Attachment 5
                    SAMPLE LANGUAGE FOR RFP DEVELOPMENT

Provided in this annex is sample language that should be considered in developing a partnering
and data rights agreement with the contractor using government RFP. Programs vary from
variety to scope therefore this is just an example of what one should consider. RFP language
should be tailored each program. Programs vary in magnitude and scope; therefore, this can be
tailored. Contract requirements evolve from user needs and subsequent program office
decisions. Acquisition requirements including statement of objectives and risk should be
incorporated in order to provide government source selection evaluation sufficient detail in the
proposal content and evaluation criteria that allows the government evaluator to negotiate a best
value and low risk solution.
  (I) Section L&M Organic Depot Activation Option - (pg. 30-32)
  Provides sample RFP language for a pre-priced option, access rights to the depot level repair
  data (hardware and software) required for organic depot activation.
  (II) Section L&M Partnering - (pg. 30-32)
  Provides sample RFP language for offering a depot level maintenance partnering strategy.
  (III) Section H - (pg. 33-37)
  Provides sample RFP language for Public-Private Partnering with the assigned government
  depots.
  (IV) CLIN - (pg. 38)
  Provides an example of a CLIN used to deliver all infrastructures, including hardware,
  software, data and updates required to support government organic depot level maintenance,
  sustainment management and associated services.
   (V) Section I - (pg. 39-43)
  Provides sample RFP language referencing the clauses required by law or by this part and any
  additional clauses expected to be included in any resulting contract.
  (VI) Statement of Objectives - (pg. 44)
  Provides sample Statement of Objectives (SOO) language for Public-Private Partnering with
  the assigned government depots, and obtaining Government access to software and hardware
  artifacts. Evaluate public private partnerships and provide data to depots for workload
  assessments. Supports the DSOR effort.
More information on Depot Level Maintenance can be found on the SMC/PIL website hosted on
the            AF             Portal            at:             https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=s6925EC133FF20FB5E044080020E329A9.
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                      29


                                          Attachment 6
                       SAMPLE LANGUAGE FOR SECTION L & M

Organic Depot Activation Option for STRW-MAN ABC*
L-XXX Instructions to Bidders for STRW-MAN ABC Government Depot Activation
Below is sample language for L & M. Language should be tailored for each program.
Depot Activation
The contractor shall pre-price as a deliverable option all infrastructure, including hardware,
software, data and updates required to support government organic depot level maintenance,
sustainment management and associated services for the STRW-MAN ABC IAW the ABC
System Specification, ABC IMP and SOW.
The contractor shall provide the government, as a priced option, access rights to the depot level
repair data (hardware and software) required for organic depot activation. This will include
access to all source code for software depot maintenance, Level 3/Spec control drawings, and
test procedures/data for hardware depot maintenance. The option could be exercised if depot
level partnering is not proposed and the Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) process determines that
an organic capability must be activated due to Title 10 requirements/constraints or best value
considerations.
M-XXX Evaluation factors for organic depot activation option for STRW-MAN ABC
Basis for Selection
Selection will be made to the responsible bidder who submits the best value proposal conforming
to the requirements of this solicitation. All proposals will be evaluated in accordance with the
evaluation approach and the evaluation criteria listed below.
Evaluation Criteria – Depot Activation
The contractor provides a pre-priced option to deliver to the government all infrastructures;
including hardware, software, data and updates; required to support government organic depot
level maintenance, sustainment management, and associated services for the STRW-MAN ABC
IAW the ABC system specification, ABC IMP, and Statement of Work (SOW). The
government will be given appropriate and sufficient access (data rights as indicated IAW
acquisition strategy) to all hardware and software depot level data (including all proprietary data)
required for the completion of the Air Force Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) process and for
organic depot activation (if required by DSOR and/or Title 10 requirements) at the lowest
possible cost to the government.




*
 This document refers to the fictional ABC program, managed by the fictional STRW-MAN
Systems Wing.
    30                                                        SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


                                            Attachment 7
                         SAMPLE LANGUAGE FOR SECTION L & M

Partnering for STRW-MAN ABC
L-XXX Instructions to Bidders for STRW-MAN ABC Public-Private Partnering Plan
Below is sample language for L & M. Language should be tailored for each program.
Public-Private Partnering (PPP)
In accordance with the ―Special Clause, Contractor Utilization of Public-Private Partnering – H-
XXX‖, it is the government’s intent to maximize PPP for ABC. PPP will be implemented and
evaluated in the overall best value analysis. Further information regarding PPP may also be
obtained on the following website: http://www.acq.osd.mil/log/mrmp/index.htm.
The offeror shall describe the STRW-MAN ABC depot level maintenance partnering strategy.
Implementation of the partnership should be proposed using one of the Title 10 authorized
methods: Direct Sales, Leasing, or Workshare. The partnering strategy should consider a phased
approach, if needed, to ramp up depot activities, and should provide methods for developing or
transitioning hardware required for sustainment (e.g. software and hardware test sets/stations).
The depot level partnering strategy will utilize candidate organic depot number 1* for software
depot level maintenance and candidate organic depot number 2* for hardware depot level
maintenance. Organic depot capabilities that are available to the contractor through partnering
include:
     Manufacturing: fabrication of parts, assembly of components, final assembly, and painting of
     end items.
     Repair: diagnostics, refurbishment, overhaul, and rebuild.
     Technical Services: testing and analysis, repair process design, and in-service engineering.
     Software Support: all aspects of software development using CMMI Level 5 processes.
     Facilities: Whole facilities (covered by hazardous materials licenses) including requisite
     equipment, laboratories, ranges and facilities for testing materials, equipment, software and
     other items.
     Workforce: Single or mixed workforce (e.g., all government or a mix of government and
     contractor personnel).
Partnering plan requirements:
Bidders shall submit a plan explaining how they will engage in partnering with candidate organic
depot number 1 for sustainment of ABC software and candidate organic depot number 2 for
ABC hardware. Please submit a sanitized partnership plan (i.e. no company logos/names) to
ensure unbiased evaluation. Elements of the plan shall include:
I. Depot Proposal:
    a. Depot Workload:

*
    Insert name of candidate organic depot, as appropriate
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                     31


   1. The quantity of repair workload planned for candidate organic depot number 1* (software)
   and candidate organic depot number 2* (hardware).
   2. Workload transition plan to include time-phased implementation from supplier to depot for
   applicable inputs (e.g.; equipment, training, and sustainment of software & hardware).
 b. Depot Investment:
   This may include plans to invest capital, support equipment, facilities, technical on-site
   support or training into Candidate Organic Depot Number 1 and Candidate Organic Depot
   Number 2.
 c. A Commitment to Establishing a Partnering Agreement:
   The Bidder shall provide a written summary demonstrating a clear understanding of PPP
   laws, documentation, and requirements. A signed partnering agreement is not required for
   proposals; it is required 60 days following the award of this contract.
 d. Other Factors:
   Use of innovative ideas to establish a long-term partnership with the assigned government
   depots for the sustainment of ABC software and hardware.
   Note to offeror: The CDRL will provide details
M-XXX Evaluation Factors for STRW-MAN ABC Partnership Proposal
Basis for Selection
Selection will be made to the responsible bidder who submits the best value proposal conforming
to the requirements of this solicitation. All proposals will be evaluated in accordance with the
evaluation approach and the evaluation criteria listed below.
Evaluation Criteria – Public Private Partnering (PPP) Plan
Evaluation of the PPP plan will be a subjective assessment based on a consideration of all
relevant facts and circumstances. It will not be based on absolute standards of what is
considered acceptable. The offeror’s proposal must demonstrate their depot level partnering
strategy effectively utilizes and leverages the strengths of the assigned organic depot(s)
(candidate organic depot number 1 and candidate organic depot number 2) and provides superior
support to the warfighter and best value to the Air Force. Each partnering plan will be evaluated
IAW the criteria presented below on a numerical basis. The evaluation of each sub-factor will
consider completeness and clarity, degree of compliance with the solicitation and the risk that the
approach will be successful as proposed. The following sub-factors are listed in descending
order of importance (although all are significant factors).
   a. Depot Workload
   b. Depot Investment
   c. A Commitment to Establishing a Partnering Agreement
   d. Other Factors
 32                                                          SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


                                          Attachment 8
                    SECTION H - PARTNERING CLAUSES FOR ABC

H – XXX Special Clause: Contractor Utilization of Public-Private Partnering
(a) In accordance with 10 USC 2474 and 10 USC 2208(j), it is the intent of the government to
maximize participation in PPP with the assigned STRW-MAN ABC government depots.
Bidders are encouraged to support organic logistics capabilities which include those that are
required to maintain and repair the weapon system(s) and other military equipment necessary to
fulfill the strategic and contingency plans of the DoD. Bidders shall propose utilization of
candidate organic depot number 1 for sustainment of software and candidate organic depot
number 2 for the hardware elements of STRW-MAN ABC in response to requirements issued
hereunder. This may initially include providing training, equipment and shared expertise.
(b) Procedures: Following contract award, the prime contractor will be responsible for
implementing the proposed STRW-MAN ABC depot partnering plan using candidate organic
depots numbers 1 & 2, provided resources, communicating with candidate organic depots
numbers 1 & 2, and making all arrangements necessary to accommodate the use of such
resources. The prime contractor shall establish and execute a partnering agreement thereby
establishing general terms and conditions followed by appropriate work scope specific
implementation agreement(s) with candidate organic depots numbers 1 & 2. Implementation
agreements shall contain: (1) a clear technical description of the supplies or services that will be
provided by candidate organic depots numbers 1 & 2 (e.g. Statement of Work); (2) pricing by
candidate organic depots numbers 1 & 2 for the services and/or supplies provided; (3) applicable
terms and conditions; and (4) any other information deemed pertinent for proper execution of the
partnered workload.
(c) In keeping with government guidance, PPP requires advance funding, which may be
accomplished incrementally.
(d) Further information regarding PPP may also be obtained on the following website:
http://www.acq.osd.mil/log/mrmp/index.htm
SPECIAL GOVERNMENT FURNISHED SUPPLIES AND/OR SERVICES (DEPOT
MAINTENANCE PARTNERING)
(a) Applicability: This clause applies only to the special form of Government Furnished
Supplies and/or Services (GFS/S) as will be provided by the depot to the prime contractor, on
behalf of the Air Force buying activity. The special GFS/S shall be identified within the
partnering agreement (including associated Implementation Agreements (IA)) between the prime
contractor and the depot. The prime contractor will enter into PPP agreements with candidate
organic depots numbers 1 & 2 for sustainment of software and hardware elements of STRW-
MAN ABC. Direct Sale/Workshare arrangements will be made as appropriate, pursuant to
statutory authority such as 10 USC 2474, 2770, 2563 and 2208(j).
 (b) Limitations: This clause shall not apply to, or in any way affect, any other Government
Furnished Property (GFP), facilities, or services provisions as may be contained elsewhere in this
contract.
(c) Definitions: For the purposes of this clause, the following definitions apply:
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                    33


   (1) Buying Activity: The government buying activity responsible for the award and
   administration of this contract.
   (2) Depot: The Government Depot Maintenance Activity Group (DMAG) entity responsible
   for performing and providing the GFS/S IAW the terms of this contract and IAW the
   Partnering Agreements as may be negotiated between the DMAG and the Prime Contractor.
   (3) Prime Contractor: The contractor identified on the face page of this contract and
   responsible for execution of the requirements of this contract.
   (4) Government-Furnished Supplies and/or Services (GFS/S): The special form of GFS/S as
   will be provided by the depot to the contractor, on behalf of the Air Force buying activity.
   The special GFS/S shall be identified within the Partnering Agreement (PA) (including
   associated IA) between the contractor and the depot. GFS/S does not include program
   management or systems engineering support normally provided through government program
   office, nor any other form of government-provided support from business areas outside of the
   DMAG.
   (5) Direct Sales: An agreement for an ALC to sell services or supplies (manufactured or
   repaired) to private companies that are fulfilling a DoD contract or subcontract. This
   arrangement is formalized through a PA and later through more detailed IAs. In this
   arrangement the private companies pay the ALC activity.
   (6) Work share/Government Furnished Supplies & Services: An agreement whereby a
   combination of ALC and commercial facilities and or employees are used to execute the
   requiring activity’s work package; the requiring activity issues a work order to the ALC
   participant and a contract to the private sector participant. Therefore, the government
   program office pays the ALC activity. The relationship between the parties is formalized with
   a PA and later through more detailed IAs.
(d) Purpose: This clause is to recognize and enable PPP between the contractor and the depot
whereby the depot will provide selected GFS/S to the contractor on behalf of the Air Force. This
clause, combined with the PA as negotiated between the contractor and depot, identifies the roles
and responsibilities of the parties as necessary to provide for the GFS/S described herein. This
clause also identifies the process for future changes and remedies available to the contractor and
the depot relative to the GFS/S.
(e) Roles and Responsibilities:
   (1) General:
    (i) The buying activity recognizes that the prime contractor’s performance of this contract is
    dependent in part upon the buying activity’s direct funding of, and the depot’s satisfactory
    performance of, the GFS/S provided in accordance with the signed PA and associated IA
    attached to this contract. Funding of the GFS/S is not included in the funding of this
    contract. However, the contractor’s internal costs and fees for planning, management, and
    integration of the GFS/S efforts are allowable as part of this contract.
    (ii) The contractor and the depot will comply with their PA and the approved IA’s,
    consistent with these agreements, the depot will deliver to the contractor the specific GFS/S
    authorized in the IA, which are detailed in SOW paragraphs XXX (as Attachment XXX) to
    this contract. The PA does not authorize either the contractor or the depot to unilaterally
34                                                           SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


     terminate or change the PA or an IA under it, or to add an IA. Any such action shall be by
     mutual agreement and subject to the prior approval of the PCO IAW paragraph 4 of this
     clause.
     (iii) The PA defines the methodology that shall be utilized by the prime contractor and the
     depot to accomplish both depot Core workloads and Core-plus workloads. In the event
     future government decisions drive a change to core workload, existing IAs, or the need for
     new IAs, such changes will be directed by the contracting officer and implemented under the
     PA by bilateral agreement between the prime contractor and the depot. The contracting
     officer shall make an appropriate equitable adjustment to this contract for the impact of such
     direction on cost, schedule, award fee, and/or award term provisions of this contract. The
     prime contractor and the depot may jointly propose additions to or deletions from the IA list.
     The contractor shall coordinate such actions in writing with the contracting officer prior to
     contractor or depots signatures, including any expected need for equitable adjustment to this
     contract. In the event the contractor desires to utilize the depot to perform additional non-
     core work, the proposed new or modified IA shall be accompanied by an appropriate best
     value analysis when it is submitted to the contracting officer for coordination. Following the
     contracting officer concurrence and signature by the contractor and depot, a copy of the new
     IA or the termination agreement will be provided to the contracting officer to support a
     timely update to the IA list of this contract. Other substantive changes to individual IAs will
     be similarly coordinated with the contracting officer, and reflected in the IA list as
     appropriate.
 (2) In accordance with the terms of the PA, the contractor will utilize the Implementation
 Work Package (IWP) processes (Reference XXX) to initiate specific depot STRW-MAN
 work. The contractor is responsible for ensuring that IWPs are issued and, in the case of cost
 type IWPs (if applicable), managed after issuance to ensure that each is adequately funded
 under the Funding Assignment Document (FAD) process in advance of performance to
 forestall any possibility of anti-deficient performance. In the event that the need arises to
 terminate or otherwise discontinue a specific IWP, for whatever reason, the terminating
 document along with appropriate supporting documentation will be coordinated with the
 depot prior to final signature. In the event such termination drives the contractor to assume
 responsibility for performance of that workload directly, or by commercial subcontract, the
 contractor may request an appropriate equitable adjustment to this contract pursuant to this
 clause. Such adjustment may be requested to the cost, schedule, or award fee and/or award
 term provisions of this contract and should normally be submitted to the contracting officer
 when the IWP termination package is submitted to the depot for coordination. However,
 regardless of the timing of such a request, the contractor is not authorized to implement
 alternative activities to replace a terminated IWP until this contract has been appropriately
 modified in accordance with the changes clause of this contract.
 (3) The contracting officer’s technical representative for the partnering activity will be a
 person(s) designated from within the depot. As soon as practical after the award of this
 contract, the contracting officer will provide the name(s) of the designated Depot individual(s)
 to the prime contractor. The contracting officer may update such notice in writing at any
 time. The individual(s) so named will execute government responsibilities for FADs, IAs,
 and IWPs as specifically called out in the PA.
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                      35


  (4) The Prime Contractor is expected to perform technical analysis, including the adequacy of
  hours proposed for un-priced IWPs, for depot proposals submitted in response to activities
  under the PA. However, the prime contractor is not responsible for verifying the adequacy or
  accuracy of approved depot labor rates, overhead rates, or repair rates. Therefore, any
  requirement for ―cost or pricing data‖ imposed upon the prime contractor shall not be deemed
  to apply in any way to the depot.
  (5) The prime contractor is expected to maintain appropriate insight and oversight of the
  depot work under the PA in compliance with the terms of the PA. Provided such actions as
  contemplated by the PA and IA are taken by the prime contractor to avoid inadequate
  performance, the prime contractor may request and the contracting officer shall make
  equitable adjustment to this contract’s cost/price, schedule, award fee, and/or award term
  provisions if the depot fails to perform an IWP in accordance with the requirements of the PA
  and the applicable IA. However, such equitable adjustment shall be granted only if any such
  failure causes an increase or decrease in the price or estimated cost of, or the time required for
  performance of any part of the work under this contract, or leads to termination or
  discontinuance of the IWP.
  (6) In the event that the prime contractor’s work effort or cost is audited pursuant to the terms
  of this contract, and such auditor requests access to the depot records to support the audit, the
  contractor will promptly notify the contracting officer. At that point, the contracting officer
  will make appropriate arrangements with the audit or oversight agency to enable direct
  government to government access to the candidate organic depot number 1 supporting
  material. Similarly, if the prime contractor requires audit or oversight support from a
  government organization, such as Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) or Defense
  Contract Management Agency (DCMA), such support may be requested from the contracting
  officer.
  (7) The prime contractor and the depot have agreed to utilize the processes of Article XXX,
  Resolution of Disputes and Disagreements, of the PA to resolve issues that may arise between
  them during performance under this contract. However, any disagreement between the
  contractor and the contracting officer, or the contracting officer’s technical representative(s),
  will be resolved in accordance with the ―Disputes‖ clause of this contract. A decision under
  Article XXX of the PA does not alter or eliminate any rights or duties of either the
  government or the prime contractor provided in this contract.
  (8) The contractor shall protect all classified information required to be utilized in
  performance of this contract in accordance with the STRW-MAN Program Security
  Classification Guide, Section XXX, Attachment XXX. The depot will be required to follow
  its own and higher headquarters’ security requirements in discharging its responsibilities for
  protection of any classified material, data, or information provided to it by the prime
  contractor. Further, the prime contractor shall not be responsible for reconciling any
  perceived discrepancies between the STRW-MAN Program Security Classification Guide and
  the depot’s internal procedures. Any such discrepancies shall be a matter for internal
  government resolution.
36                                                      SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


 (9) The GFS/S supplied by the depot to the prime contractor is deemed to be a special form
 of government property provided within the provisions of the PA. Therefore, the procedures
 and remedies specified in this clause or the PA shall take precedence over the GFP clause of
 this contract. Further, the contracting officer approves the prime contractor relieving the
 depot from liability for loss of or damage to property of the government that may occur as a
 result of their performance of IWPs issued pursuant to the PA and specific IAs in support of
 this contract. This includes property, which as between the government and the prime
 contractor under this contract, is government property, including, but not limited to, prime
 mission equipment or other hardware being repaired and maintained. Therefore, if the depot
 is responsible for such loss or damage, the contracting officer agrees to hold the prime
 contractor harmless for such loss or damage.
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                      37


                                           Attachment 9

00XX             CLIN                                                             sec class: U
Noun: DEPOT SUPPORT INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
      ABC - FY XX
Acrn:            nsn:
Site codes

Type contract:
Descriptive Data: The Contractor shall deliver all infrastructures, including hardware, software,
data and updates required to support government organic depot level maintenance, sustainment
management and associated services for the STRW-MAN ABC IAW the ABC contractual
documents including but not limited to the system specification, IMP and SOW. The contractor
will provide the government access to the data required to support full activation and capability
development of the government organic depot activation and for repair/sustainment of all
hardware and software items, facilitating workload transition to the depot. For non-
developmental and Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) items, the data will be adequate to
support maintenance, repair, or modification of acquired items designated repairable, and form,
fit, and function data for those items designated non-repairable. Access to this data will be
provided to the government (as indicated IAW acquisition strategy) for the life of the system.
The contractor will provide the government access to the required data by delivering the data in
both its native and neutral digital formats (including updates when requested by the government)
and/or by allowing the government access to the contractor’s data management system. Access
to the required data will be made available no later than 60 days after exercising the option. The
contractor shall furnish data and reports IAW the Contract Data Requirements. This CLIN is to
be authorized by separate PCO action.
(WBS Element 1.4)
(3600 funds)
QTY              Purch Unit   Unit Price            Total Item Amount
1                                                   Prepriced
Prices

In the event the Government exercises this CLIN, it shall be revised by adding Item 00YY to the
other items listed therein and the estimated cost shall be increased by $XXXXX.
 38                                                           SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


                                          Attachment 10
                               SAMPLE SECTION I. CLAUSES

STRW-MAN ABC USE OF EXISTING GOVERNMENT RESOURCES –GOVERNMENT-
FURNISHED SUPPLIES/SERVICES (GFS/S)
a. Definitions
   (1) Buyer - Government Buying Activity [Procurement Contracting Officer (PCO) and
   Program Office].
   (2) Government-Furnished Supplies/Services (GFS/S) - Any supplies and/or services
   manufactured or otherwise provided by an activity within the government at the request of the
   government program office or prime contractor for use in the performance of the contract
   resulting from this solicitation. GFS/S does not include program management or systems
   engineering support normally provided through government program office or Contractor
   Integrated Product Teams subsequent to contract award (i.e., working groups, test plan
   working groups, program management reviews, design reviews, technical interchange
   meetings, etc.)
   (3) Prime Contractor - Principal agent performing work under prime contract with the buyer.
   (4) Procurement Contracting Officer (PCO) – The cognizant PCO identified in the contract.
   (5) Seller - An activity within the government providing supplies and/or services in the
   performance of this contract via a written agreement between authorized agents of the seller
   and prime contractor
b. Availability
   (1) Core Workload: Statement of Work paragraphs XXX, (Attachment XXX to the contract)
   identifies required ―Air Force Core‖ workload requirements that shall be performed by the
   candidate organic depot Number 1 seller under a Government-Furnished Supplies/Services
   (GFS/S) approach. Under the GFS/S approach funding will be provided directly from the
   Buyer to the Seller. The contractor shall form a partnership arrangement with the candidate
   organic depot Number 1 Seller Maintenance Activity Group (DMAG), as deemed appropriate
   between the contractor and DMAG. This partnership agreement should outline a business
   relationship that provides an innovative government provided system sustainment service
   approach above that normally provided under a Government-Furnished type approach. To the
   maximum extent permitted by the DMAG, this partnership should include innovative
   techniques and information sharing processes whereby the contractor and seller provide
   mutual support so as to strengthen overall system sustainment processes on this
   program. The prime contractor is expected to provide all appropriate information and
   consultation, to include technical details necessary for the seller to accomplish the core
   workload and obtain the seller estimates for this work accomplishment. The prime contractor
   has no responsibility as to price justification of the seller’s estimates; however, the contractor
   should consider the seller’s estimates in the overall program execution and as part of the total
   ownership costs of the program.
   (2) Other Than Core Work: The buyer will not identify or require use of existing government
   resources, other than the core workload identified in paragraph (1) above for use in the
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                     39


  performance of the contract resulting from this solicitation. However, the prime contractor
  shall propose best value to the government, and shall determine whether use of existing
  government resources to accomplish some of the required work represents the best value. If
  the prime contractor determines that use of existing government resources (other than core
  work) constitutes the best value to the government, the procedures as stated in this clause
  should be used to identify and execute such work.
c. Terms of proposal. To propose (before or after award) use of existing government resources
in the performance of this contract, an executed copy of the specific written agreement between
the seller and the prime contractor must be furnished to the PCO.
d. Roles and Responsibility:
  (1) PCO's role is to enter into a contract with the prime contractor—which includes the core
  requirements and providing of other than core GFS/S. The funds obligated on the prime
  contract/order will not include amounts required for work to be performed by the seller. The
  buyer will issue a project order (or other document determined appropriate by the seller) to
  the seller in accordance with the written agreement between the prime contractor and the
  seller, and will transfer payment to the seller in advance of commencement of work. If the
  prime contractor proposes to enter into a new or revised written agreement with the seller
  subsequent to contract award and the PCO concurs, the prime contractor and the PCO will
  negotiate an adjustment to the contract.
  (2) Prime contractor's role is to solicit, negotiate terms and conditions (not price), and enter
  into a written agreement with the Seller for any work to be provided by seller. The prime
  contractor’s proposal to the buyer shall include the price, delivery and technical description of
  work to be performed by the Seller—and a copy of the written agreement between the seller
  and prime contractor.
  (3) Seller's role is to determine capacity/capabilities to execute work; obtain appropriate
  approvals for work; and to propose the price, delivery and terms & conditions for work to be
  performed by the seller to the prime contractor. The seller shall enter into a written agreement
  with the prime contractor; and, notify the prime contractor when work is complete.
e. Contract Requirements. The buyer/PCO and prime contractor agree that any resultant
contract/order will contain adequate information setting forth the details of the GFS/S to be
delivered to the prime contractor for use in performing the contract.
 40                                                          SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


                                         Attachment 11
      SAMPLE AGREEMENT REGARDING GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE OF
         GOVERNMENT FURNISHED SUPPLIES AND SERVICES (GFS/S)

(a) Notwithstanding any clause or provision in this contract, including but not limited to the
"Excusable Delays" and "Termination"/"Default" clauses, the government agrees not to hold the
prime contractor responsible, directly or indirectly, for the delay, non-performance, or other non-
compliance of any work required under this contract to the extent that such delay, non-
performance, or non-compliance is attributable to the action or inaction of a government agency
performing GFS/S hereunder.
   (1) Such delay, non-performance, or non-compliance by the government in its capacity as a
   performer of GFS/S shall be considered to be excusable delay or non-compliance for which
   an equitable adjustment in the performance period and/or cost/price of this contract shall be
   provided by the government to the contractor if so requested by the prime contractor, and
   such delay, non-performance, or non-compliance shall not be used by the government, in
   whole or in part, as a basis for termination for default, or a price, fee, or profit reduction,
   under this contract, or as a basis for the withholding of progress payments if otherwise
   authorized, or the assessment of liquidated damages if otherwise authorized, by the
   government under this contract.
   (2) Such delay or non-performance by the government in its capacity as a performer of
   GFS/S shall also not be used, in whole or in part, by the government as a basis for: (a) an
   adverse rating of the contractor under the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting
   System (CPARS) for its performance under this contract, (b) debarring or suspending the
   Contractor from doing business with the government or proposing the contractor for
   debarment or suspension, and/or (c) withdrawing government approval of the Contractor's
   Purchasing System.
(b) This provision does not excuse the Prime Contractor from continuously exercising good faith
efforts to effectively manage its GFS/S performers and to exercise good faith efforts, if
necessary, to replace the affected services. Such efforts must be demonstrated through
substantial credible evidence that the contractor took all reasonable corrective actions to mitigate
the effects of the GFS/S performer’s noncompliance on prime contract schedule and/or price.
(c) An equitable adjustment in the performance period and/or cost/price of this contract shall not
be provided by the Government to the Prime Contractor to the extent that the Prime Contractor
failed to provide any timely support as is documented as a necessary precondition to the
performance of the GFS/S related activities as written in the PA, attached hereto, between the
contractor and the performer of such GFS/S, and that such failure caused or materially
contributed to the government’s failure to timely perform GFS/S.
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                     41


                                         Attachment 12
                     SAMPLE LANGUAGE FOR CONTRACTOR
                  UTILIZATION OF DEPOT-PROVIDED RESOURCES

a. It is the intent of the Air Force to permit the contractor to utilize supplies and / or services
from Air Force depots in performance of Delivery / Task Orders (D/TOs) issued
hereunder. After award, the Prime Contractor may contact the appropriate depot partnering
offices (the Plans and Programs Directorates - office symbol XP) for planning purposes to make
the necessary arrangements to facilitate potential partnering on individual D/TOs. However,
there can be no assurance that depots will have the available capacity to provide supplies and / or
services on a recurring basis for the life of this contract due to changing depot mission
requirements. The availability of depot-provided resources is the same for all contractors (Prime
and Subcontractors). The procedures set forth in paragraph b. shall be used by the contractor
electing to utilize depot-provided resources for accomplishment of D/TOs issued hereunder.
b. Procedures: The prime contractor is solely responsible for determining the appropriateness for
use of depot-provided resources, communicating with Air Force depot(s) and making all
arrangements necessary with the depot(s) to accommodate the use of such resources. If a
contractor elects to utilize depot-provided supplies or services for a specific D/TO the prime
contractor shall negotiate a signed agreement with the Air Force depot-provider. At a minimum,
this agreement shall contain:
   (1) Clear technical description of the depot-provided supplies or services to include
   appropriate line item structure, delivery schedules and accompanying technical descriptions
   (e.g. Statement of Work, Work Breakdown Structure, etc.)
   (2) Clear identification of all dollars to be charged by the depot-provider for the supplies or
   services including the proposed funding process
   (3) Terms and conditions for which the depot-provided resources are provided
   (4) Any other information deemed pertinent for proper execution of the depot-provided
   supplies or services.
 42                                                         SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011


                                          Attachment 13
                       SAMPLE LANGUAGE FOR COMMON ITEM
                        SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS (SLAS)

Below is sample language for SLAs. Language should be tailored for each program.
(a) If appropriate, Service Level Agreements (SLAs) will be established with the appropriate Air
Force Air Logistics Centers (ALCs), the Defense Logistics Agency Inventory Control Points
(ICPs), and other Department of Defense (DoD) activities. These SLAs will foster a partnering
relationship between the STRAW-MAN Systems Wing, the Common Item ICPs, and the depot
acting as the ABC program supply chain manager. The specific objectives of the SLAs are to:
   (1) Enhance communications between the common item ICPs, and both the Joint Space
   Program Office (JSPO) and their supply chain manager
   (2) Define responsibilities of the parties
   (3) Establish the standards for common item support and define the metrics used to measure
   performance against these standards
   (4) Establish joint processes to maximize common item support to the warfighter
   (5) Define the performance evaluation processes to be used
(b) The prime contractor’s responsibilities for establishing SLAs include supporting the program
office and/or depot in contacting the appropriate government entities, facilitating negotiation of
the terms of an SLA tailored to meet the needs and responsibilities of that specific government
entity, and, if appropriate, signing the document at the conclusion of these negotiations.
(c) Provided that the contractor reasonably and diligently fulfills its responsibilities in
facilitating the signing of an SLA, the contractor shall not be adversely evaluated or otherwise
held accountable for adverse support impacts of common item ICP actions that are beyond the
contractor’s span of control, whether resulting from funding shortfalls, ICP priority decisions,
inability to de-capitalize /S PME spares, or other causes.
SMCI20-103 15 FEBRUARY 2011                                                                  43


                                        Attachment 14
                      SAMPLE LANGUAGE FOR STATEMENT OF
                      OBJECTIVES (SOO) FOR STRW-MAN ABC*

Below is sample language for as SOO. Language should be tailored for each program.
(a) Develop a depot strategy that includes consideration of partnering with the HQ AFMC
assigned Government depot(s) to ensure affordable long-term sustainment of ABC as well as
compliance with all Title 10 requirements (Title 2464, 2466 and 2474). Final depot strategy will
be approved through the Depot Source of Repair (DSOR) process.
(b) Provide a transition plan for depot sustainment of the weapon system to include depot
involvement in software validation and verification and software maintenance of incremental
updates to attain full software maintenance capabilities.
(c) Ensure Government access to all software and hardware artifacts, including those with
limited data rights, for anomaly resolution, studies, information and safety assurance, and
sustainment of system.




*
 This document refers to the fictional ABC program, managed by the fictional STRW-MAN
Systems Wing.
