BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER
SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS                                        INSTRUCTION 65-3011
CENTER
                                                                                 20 APRIL 2012

                                                                        Financial Management

                                                                      SMC AUDIT PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: SMC/FMP                                                             Certified by: SMC/FM
                                                                       (Colonel Roman H. Kent)
                                                                                        Pages: 7


This instruction provides the Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) and its customers a broad
understanding of the audit process and implements requirements set forth in AFI 65-301 and
AFI 65-403. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AD 847s from the field through base level OPR. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cmf.

1. LOCAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.

   1.1. Introduction: Audits are accomplished to evaluate and improve programs, ensure the
   accuracy of financial reporting; and to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness of
   operations.
   1.2. Policies and Procedures:
       1.2.1. Audit Focal Point (AFP): The FM Comptroller Directorate serves as the
       installation AFP, the primary liaison between audit organizations and SMC Commander.
       The primary responsibility of the AFP is to coordinate, monitor audit reports processing
       and manage follow-up actions/recommendations. The AFP fulfills the role of the
       Subordinate Level-Command Focal Point as defined in AFI 65-403, paragraph 2.10.
2                                                             SMCI 65-3011 20 April 2012


    1.2.2. Audit Process: In most circumstances, the AFP receives notice of audit through an
    announcement memorandum from the audit agency and tasks the appropriate
    organization focal point.
       1.2.2.1. If an organization receives a notice of audit directly from an agency outside
       the SMC, the organization’s focal point must notify the AFP as soon as possible so
       the audit can be officially tracked and to maintain senior leadership awareness.
       1.2.2.2. The AFP will coordinate with the audit organization to schedule in-briefs
       with key personnel (Commanders, section chiefs, points of contact, etc.) as necessary.
       The AFP coordinates out-briefs with audit organization key personnel and focal point
       when requested.
       1.2.2.3. SMC offices undergoing an audit will coordinate with the AFP to schedule
       formal out-briefs with key personnel. The AFP will remain in contact with any/all
       auditors inspecting a SMC activity to ensure formal out-briefs are properly scheduled.
    1.2.3. Report Process: The audit organization provides an installation-level draft Report
    of Audit (ROA) package for formal management comments to the AFP. The AFP will
    then task the draft ROA for management comments to the organizational focal point.
    Once management comments have been prepared by the organizational focal point, the
    AFP staffs comments through the appropriate directorates, group commander, and/or
    operating locations using AFSPC Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet.
       1.2.3.1. Management Comments: The AFP prepares a transmittal letter to request
       management comments. The AFP will provide help to the organizational focal point
       with preparing and providing responsive comments. Management will normally have
       10 calendar days to prepare the final management memorandum with appropriate
       signature and provide to the AFP, who will then forward to the audit organization. If
       the audit organization provides less (or more) time to prepare the final memorandum,
       the AFP will set a specific due date.
       1.2.3.2. The AFP will compile the staff summary package for the Commander or
       designee signature which includes, in order: (a) cover memo or Staff Summary Sheet
       signed by the Comptroller or designee and (b) official management comments with
       attachments (draft ROA, copy of organizational responses, and other pertinent
       information). After the directorate/group/staff agency Commander or designee signs
       the package, the AFP forwards the management comments to the audit organization
       for inclusion in the final ROA.
    1.2.4. Procedures for Non-concurrence: Management and audit officials must attempt to
    resolve disagreements (non-concurrence) locally. If non-concurrence cannot be resolved
    locally, refer to AFI 65-403.
    1.2.5. Follow-up Process: The AFP (a) tracks open ECDs until the action is completed,
    (b) sends responses to the MAJCOM AFP and audit organization until closed, and (c)
    forwards ECD extensions to the MAJCOM AFP and audit organization.
       1.2.5.1. After closure of all ECDs, the AFP closes the audit file and maintains
       records as required by applicable GAO, DoD and AF regulations, including the
       AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule.
SMCI 65-3011 20 April 2012                                                                     3


          1.2.5.2. Formal follow-up records will contain: (a) the audit report, (b) a signed copy
          of management's comments, (c) the name of the organizational focal point
          responsible for implementing the agreed-on corrective actions, and (d) the current
          status of management actions, including an explanation for delays in any planned
          corrective actions.
              1.2.5.2.1. For audit reports documenting completed management actions, include
              management's explicit written and signed confirmation that all agreed-on
              corrective actions are complete (or that on-site verification indicates completed
              actions). This information will then be forwarded to through AFSPC to
              SAF/FMPF.
              1.2.5.2.2. For audit reports documenting estimated Potential Monetary Benefit
              (PMB), include management's explicit written and signed confirmation that the
              monetary benefits were actually realized. Include references to official budget or
              accounting data or, if such data isn't feasible, an updated estimate and its
              rationale. This information will then be forwarded to through AFSPC to
              SAF/FMPF.
2. Functional Responsibility.
   2.1. Installation Audit Focal Point (AFP). Fulfills the role of the Subordinate Level-
   Command Focal Point for the SMC. The Installation AFP:
       2.1.1. Informs senior leadership and MAJCOM functional of audit activity by processing
       related correspondence and monitoring ROAs, including tracking PMB cost applicable to
       the center.
       2.1.2. Coordinates ROAs through the SMC and staffs management comments through
       the center.
          2.1.2.1. Sends ROAs with detailed instructions and requests the appropriate
          functional point of contact to accomplish reviews and respond back to the AFP within
          the time allotted by the audit agency. The AFP will ensure that every effort is made
          to meet established suspense for management comments.
          2.1.2.2. Advises and assists functional offices in preparing responses to draft ROAs
          and other related correspondence to ensure management comments are valid and
          responsive, and procedures outlined above are followed.
          2.1.2.3. Advises audit organizations of any disagreements, non-concurrence, or
          needed clarifications that arise during response preparation.
          2.1.2.4. Is responsible for ensuring all suspenses set by the audit agency are met. If
          the suspense given by audit agency cannot be met, the AFP will request an extension
          through the respective agency before the suspense date.
       2.1.3. Attends audit in-briefs and out-briefs. The AFP will act as an arbitrator between
       directorates/groups/staff agencies and audit personnel when necessary.
       2.1.4. Determines when management has completed agreed-on corrective actions and
       realized monetary benefits and sends tracking summaries to follow-up with focal points
4                                                                 SMCI 65-3011 20 April 2012


       during the first 10 calendar days of the month following the estimated completion date
       for a corrective action.
       2.1.5. Maintains a record of all organization focal points throughout the SMC, and
       reviews organization focal point appointment letters quarterly to ensure
       accuracy/currency.
    2.2. Commanders/Directors. Commanders and Directors will designate an organizational
    focal point. Each group will appoint, in writing, a primary focal point for audit activity.
    They will appoint an additional focal point at squadron/division level as necessary, by
    appointment letter containing the designee’s name, grade, office symbol, telephone number,
    and e-mail address. All organizations will provide the organizational focal point
    appointment letter to the AFP when established or updated.
    2.3. Organizational Focal Point: The Organizational Focal Point:
       2.3.1. Serves as the organization’s point of contact (or assigns a POC) with the audit
       organization for all questions/requests during, and subsequent to, the field visit.
       2.3.2. Serves as the point of contact for receiving and distributing all reports to the
       proper office for action.
       2.3.3. Advises and assists in preparing responses to draft ROAs and other related
       correspondence involving activities within their organization’s purview to ensure
       responses are timely and accurate. They will provide responses and correspondence to
       the AFP for review and distribution.
       2.3.4. Establishes records for all installation-level report recommendations and monitors
       their status until implemented. They will provide progress reports on implementation
       status or extension request with revised ECD to the AFP. Note: The AFP maintains all
       formal followup records.
       2.3.5. Tasks audits to responsible personnel within the organization.
       2.3.6. Receives and coordinates staffed comments from and to the AFP.
       2.3.7. Identifies a point of contact to prepare and/or consolidate responses to draft ROAs
       and other related correspondence involving their activity, provide Organizational Focal
       Point responses and correspondence for distribution, and complete the audit quality
       service survey.




                                            ELLEN M. PAWLIKOWSKI, Lt Gen, USAF
                                            Commander
SMCI 65-3011 20 April 2012                                                   5


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFAA 65-104, Air Force Audit Agency Focal Point Guidance, 30 November 2006
AFI 65-301, Audit Report Procedures, 28 May 2010
AFI 65-403, Financial Management, 2 June 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 65-3, Financial Management, 21 Apr 2010
Prescribed Forms
None.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AFSPC Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFAA—Air Force Audit Agency
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFP—Audit Focal Point
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
DoD—Department of Defense
ECD—Estimated Completion Date
FMAP—Financial Management Policy and Programs Division
MAJCOM—Major Command
PMB—Potential Monetary Benefit
POC—Point of Contact
ROA—Report of Audit
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
 6                                                                     SMCI 65-3011 20 April 2012


                                            Attachment 2
          FIGURE A2 SAMPLE REQUEST FOR MANAGEMENT COMMENTS

MEMORANDUM FOR AUDIT ORGANIZATIONAL FOCAL POINT

FROM: SMC/FM

SUBJECT: Request for Management Comments, Report of Audit, Title, Directorate, Location
(Project #) (Suspense: Date)

1. The attached draft report of audit is provided for your review and response.

2. Request you provide written comments to comply with the requirements of AFI 65-301, which
states that comments should identify action taken or planned and be suitable for verbatim inclusion in
the final report. Request concurrence or non-concurrence with each finding and recommendation is
specifically indicated. Alternative corrective actions are acceptable if it corrects the problem and will
not be considered a non-concurrence. Comments must include actual completion dates for
completed actions and initial estimated completion dates (ECD) for each planned action. These
ECDs must be at least 90 calendar days out. Interim milestones every 120 calendar days are
necessary if action cannot be completed within 12 months of your response.

3. After we receive your comments, they will be forwarded to the directorate or commander for
review and signature. After the directorate or commander signs, management comments will be sent
to the AFAA Area Audit Office at (location), for inclusion in the final report of audit.

4. If your OPR needs to contact the auditors to discuss any non-concurrence or other points in the
report, or needs additional assistance with the formats for answering the report, contact me at (phone
number) as soon as possible. Please forward your formal comments NLT (date).




                                                      COMPTROLLER NAME
                                                      COMPTROLLER

 Attachments:
1. Sample responses
2. Draft Report of Audit
SMCI 65-3011 20 April 2012                                                                              7


                                             Attachment 3
  FIGURE A3 SAMPLE MANAGEMENT COMMENTS MEMORANDUM TO AUDIT

                                                                                               (Date)
MEMORANDUM FOR AUDIT ORGANIZATION

FROM: Directorate, Commander or Vice Commander
      Address

SUBJECT: Management Comments, Report of Audit, Title, Organization, Location, (Project #).

1. Reference your subject, date, memorandum requesting written comments on subject audit report.
The following management comments are submitted for inclusion in the final audit report.

   a. Audit Results 1. Concur with intent.

       (1) Recommendation A.1. Concur. An Action Officer will be appointed to provide
oversight for the program. ECD: (Date)

        (2) Recommendation A.2. Concur with intent. In lieu of the audit recommendation, a
working group has been established to develop local operating instructions pertaining to all assigned
units and tenant organizations. The instruction will outline procedures required to comply with
regulatory requirements to include a procurement process. ECD: (Date)

   b. Audit Result 2. Concur.

    c. Recommendation B.1. Concur. Training will be conducted for all members assigned to the
flight. ECD: (Date).

    e. Audit Result 3. Not Concur. The audit does not take into account the unique operations
overseas, i.e. 2-year tours for unaccompanied Airmen destabilizes the workforce’s overall
qualification/proficiency level and to a great degree impedes the organization’s production capacity
the manpower required and recent increases in demands placed on the organization as result from
manpower cuts.

2. If you have any further questions, please contact our audit focal point, Name, and phone number.




                                                     NAME, Rank, USAF
                                                     Commander
