BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER
SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER                                   INSTRUCTION 63-107

                                                                             4 AUGUST 2010
                                                          Certified Current 7 September 2012
                                                                                  Acquisition

                                                   EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT (EVM)



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SMC/FM                                                              Certified by: SMC/CD
Supersedes: SMC/CD Memorandum, Interim SMC                               (Mr Douglas Loverro)
              Policy on Earned Value Management,                                       Pages: 19
              22 Sep 2008;
              SMC/CC Memorandum, Policy on
              Earned Value Management Reporting
              and Analysis, 9 Aug 2006


This instruction establishes the Space and Missile Command Center (SMC) Earned Value
Management (EVM) Revitalization Initiative policies including the roles and responsibilities for
SMC personnel to implement EVM in managing acquisition programs in accordance with: Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management (section
3.17 - Earned Value Management (EVM) and section 2.26 - Program Executive Office (PEO)
Roles and Responsibilities); Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS)
Subpart 234.2, Earned Value Management System (EVMS); DOD Instruction (DODI) 5000.02,
Operation of the Defense Acquisition System (Enclosure 4, Table 5: EVM Implementation
Policy); Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (OUSD) Acquisition, Technology and
Logistics (AT&L) Memorandum, 3 Jul 07, Subject: Use of EVM in the DOD (including attached
DOD EVM Roles and Responsibilities); Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR); Office of
Management and Budget (OMB), Circular A-11, Part 7, Planning, Budgeting, Acquisition, and
Management of Capital Assets, June 2008.

This instruction applies to all military and civilian personnel in the SMC and programs under
AFPEO for Space. If there is any conflicting guidance between this publication and DOD or Air
Force regulations, policy, or instructions, the latter shall take precedence. DOD EVM
implementation policy (DODI 5000.02) is provided in attachment 2. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR) using
the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route the AF Form 847 from the
 2                                                                                         SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010


field through major command (MAJCOM) publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with     the    Air     Force    Records      Disposition     Schedule     (RDS)     located   at
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This version provides substantial additions to SMC interim EVM policy and must be completely
reviewed. Major changes include instructions for EVM activities and definition of the roles and
responsibilities to facilitate an integrated approach to EVM implementation across SMC and
programs under AFPEO for Space.

Chapter 1—EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT (EVM) POLICY                                                                                         3
       1.1.   Pre-Contract Award Activities. ..............................................................................            3
       1.2.   Contract modifications. ..........................................................................................       4
       1.3.   Performance Measurement Baseline (PMB) Integrity and Maintenance. .............                                          4
       1.4.   Integrated Baseline Review (IBR). ........................................................................               5
       1.5.   Formal Reprogramming: ........................................................................................           6
Table 1.1.    OTB/OTS Initiation and Implementation Requirements. ......................................                               6
       1.6.   Single Point Adjustment (SPA). ............................................................................              7
       1.7.   EVM Analysis. .......................................................................................................    7
Table 1.2.    EVM Analysis Process. .........................................................................................          7

Chapter 2—ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                   9
       2.1.   Program Office (PO) will: .....................................................................................          9
       2.2.   The SMC Integrated Staff. .....................................................................................         10

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION                                                                      12

Attachment 2—EVM IMPLEMENTATION POLICY PER DODI 5000.02 (TABLE 5)                                                                     19
SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010                                                                       3



                                          Chapter 1

                   EARNED VALUE MANAGEMENT (EVM) POLICY

1.1. Pre-Contract Award Activities. Pre-contract activities include determination of EVM
applicability, documentation of EVM requirements in the Acquisition Strategy, documentation of
EVM in Request for Proposal(s) (RFP).
   1.1.1. EVM is required for all contracts designated as major acquisitions for development in
   accordance with FAR Subpart 34.201 and OMB Circular A-11, Part 7.
   1.1.2. For all contracts other than ―major acquisitions for development‖      (section 1.1.1)
   EVM applicability shall be based on the type of contract and the dollar threshold (estimated
   contract value including options in then year dollars). The term ―contract(s)‖ includes
   contracts, subcontracts, intra-government work agreements, and other agreements. The
   requirement for EVM applies to contracts with acquisition (including acquisition of services),
   upgrade, modification, or materiel maintenance programs, unless a waiver is obtained from
   the Milestone Decision Authority (MDA).
       1.1.2.1. EVM is required for Cost-Reimbursement /Incentive contracts (FAR Subparts
       16.3/16.4), with a total estimated contract value of $20M and greater, including but not
       limited to the following:
          1.1.2.1.1. The prime contractor/subcontractor(s) are U.S. and/or non-U.S. source;
          1.1.2.1.2. Contract work is to be performed in government facilities;
          1.1.2.1.3. Contract awarded to a specialized organizations such as the Defense
          Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA);
          1.1.2.1.4. Performance-based acquisition service contracts (FAR Subparts 37.6).
              1.1.2.1.4.1. If the EVM requirement is waived by the MDA, the Program
              Manager (PM) shall implement an alternative method of management control to
              provide advanced warning of potential performance problems.EVM is optional
              (risk based decision at the discretion of the PM) for Cost-Reimbursement
              /Incentive contracts with a total estimated contract value (including options) of
              less than $20M. A decision to apply EVM shall be documented in the contract file
              based on cost-benefit analysis.
       1.1.2.2. EVM applicability is limited for Firm-Fixed Price contracts (FAR Subpart
       16.202) regardless of dollar value and must be approved by the MDA based on a business
       case analysis.
       1.1.2.3. EVM applicability for Indefinite-Delivery contracts (FAR Subpart 16.5) shall be
       based on the type of contract of each individual order written against the Indefinite-
       Delivery contract. For Cost-Reimbursement /Incentive contracts type orders, EVM
       applicability shall be based on the dollar threshold (in accordance with sections 1.1.2.1
       and 1.1.2.2) assessed at the computed total contract value (not by each separate order).
 4                                                                 SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010


        1.1.2.4. EVM is not required (optional at the discretion of the PM) for Time–and-
        Material contracts (FAR Subpart 16.6). A decision to apply EVM shall be documented
        based on cost-benefit analysis.
     1.1.3. EVM applicability with reference to authorizing documents (regulations/
     policies/instructions), waivers and business case/cost benefit analysis (if applicable) shall be
     included in program acquisition strategy documents and the briefing to the MDA.
     1.1.4. EVMS requirements, when applicable, shall be documented in the RFP in accordance
     with SMC Contract Requirements Guide in contract clauses, Statement of Work (SOW), and
     Contract Data Requirements Lists (CDRLs).
     1.1.5. The Source Selection Team shall determine the Offeror’s compliance with the EVM
     requirements identified in the RFP as defined in the SMC Contract Requirements guidance.
     1.1.6. The PM shall insure the following requirements are included in all new weapon
     systems acquisition (except support/services) contracts:
        1.1.6.1. The Joint Space Cost Council (JSCC) standard WBS will be incorporated as a
        contract requirement in accordance with the SMC Contract Requirements Guide.
        1.1.6.2. A Contract Performance Report (CPR), Integrated Master Plan (IMP), and
        Integrated Master Schedule (IMS) including Schedule Risk Assessments (SRA) will be
        contractual requirements in accordance with the SMC Contract Requirements Guide. The
        CPR shall be reported at the control account level.
        1.1.6.3. The Contractor will provide access to all pertinent EVMS records and data
        requested by the Contracting Officer and/or his/her duly authorized representative to
        permit Government oversight that ensures compliance with this instruction.
     1.1.7. Pre-contract program documentation (acquisition strategy documents, RFP, offeror’s
     final proposal revision, etc.) that implements this policy shall be coordinated through
     SMC/FM. Once approved, no changes to EVM reporting requirements shall be made without
     PEO coordination.
1.2. Contract modifications. Modification of any contractual EVM related requirements shall
be coordinated through SMC/FM.
1.3. Performance Measurement Baseline (PMB) Integrity and Maintenance. A realistic and
well-planned PMB is a critical factor in ensuring the success of the program. Program Directors
(PD) and Program Managers (PMs) will require a consistent commitment to enforce baseline
integrity and periodically review the remaining baseline to ensure it remains executable and
realistic throughout the life of the contract.
     1.3.1. The PMB shall be detail planned based on major program milestones or gated events.
     Major program milestones/gated events (e.g., PDR, CDR) are established in the Integrated
     Master Plan (IMP) by the PMs and represent points of measurement or discrete detail
     planning points (e.g., rolling waves) for the program PMB planning.
     1.3.2. Because discrete activities enable more accurate program performance measurement,
     Level of Effort (LOE) activities should be kept to a minimum, as dictated by program
     content, to better quantify program performance. Accordingly, PMs shall ensure the PMB
SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010                                                                          5


   contains discrete activities to the greatest degree possible. The percentage of LOE should be
   based on the following design phase targets:
Maximum % LOE Targets in the Detail Planned PMB
        Pre-PDR                   Pre-CDR                      Post-CDR
        30%                       20%                          15%

LOE percentages greater than those listed above shall necessitate greater scrutiny of the baseline
plan.
1.4. Integrated Baseline Review (IBR).
   1.4.1. DFARS 252.234-7002 (Section e) and DODI 5000.02 require the Government to
   conduct IBR(s) on any contracts requiring EVM compliance.
   1.4.2. When EVM compliance is required, the PM shall conduct IBRs as early as
   practicable, but no later than180 calendar days after:
       1.4.2.1. Contract Award or Undefinitized Contract Action.
       1.4.2.2. Completing rolling wave detailed planning such as during major program gated
       events (e.g., PDR, CDR).
       1.4.2.3. Exercise of significant contracts options.
       1.4.2.4. Incorporation of major PMB modifications.
   1.4.3. During the IBRs, the Government and Contractor shall establish mutual understanding
   and agreement that:
       1.4.3.1. PMB is realistic and executable by demonstrating the:
           1.4.3.1.1. Ability of the project’s technical plan to achieve the objectives of the scope
           of work. Adequacy of the time allocated for performing the defined tasks to
           successfully achieve the project schedule objectives.
           1.4.3.1.2. Ability to successfully execute the project and attain cost objectives,
           recognizing the relationship between budget resources, funding, schedule, and scope
           of work.
           1.4.3.1.3. Availability of personnel, facilities, and equipment, when required, to
           perform the defined tasks needed to execute the program successfully.
       1.4.3.2. Inherent risks in the contractor’s performance plans and the underlying
       management control systems are adequately identified and documented, and plans are
       formulated to address mitigation of these risks.
       1.4.3.3. The Contractor’s management control processes provide effective and integrated
       technical, schedule and cost baseline control.
   1.4.4. All IBRs for ACAT I programs, or as requested by the PEO, shall be concluded by a
   written Memorandum for Record (MFR) by the Program Directors to capture the IBR results
   by addressing the following:
       1.4.4.1. PMB is realistic and executable.
 6                                                                SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010


        1.4.4.2. The risks are adequately identified and a plan is formulated to mitigate them.
        1.4.4.3. Management control processes provide effective and integrated technical,
        schedule and cost planning and baseline control.
     1.4.5. The Program Offices (PO) shall work with the Program Management Assistance
     Group (PMAG) on IBRs for all contract actions in excess of $250M. If there is a significant
     disagreement between the PO and PMAG positions, the PMAG Director will write an MFR
     as part of the briefing to the PEO.
     1.4.6. Out-brief to the PEO will be required if:
        1.4.6.1. There is a significant disagreement between the PO and PMAG positions.
        1.4.6.2. IBRs were triggered by OTB (See section 1.5.2 below).
     1.4.7. If the PM determines a pre-contract award IBR is required, then this requirement will
     also be documented in the RFP.
1.5. Formal Reprogramming: Over-Target Baseline (OTB)/Over-Target Schedule (OTS).
     1.5.1. If the Government PM determines an OTB/OTS restructuring action is necessary, the
     Government may unilaterally direct the Contractor to implement such action. In the event
     the Contractor determines an OTB/OTS restructuring action is necessary, the Contractor
     must obtain Government approval prior to implementing an OTB/OTS restructuring action.
     In both cases, the Contractor shall present to the Government for approval a detailed
     implementation plan with an associated timeframe. The Contractor will not implement the
     OTB/OTS restructuring prior to receiving written approval from the Government Procuring
     Contracting Officer (PCO). The PCO retains the unilateral right to determine if the costs of
     the restructuring are an allowable cost under the contract. IBRs are required after an OTB or
     OTS per table 1.1
     1.5.2. In accordance with DFARS clause 252.234-7002 (section g), the contractor shall
     submit a request for Government approval to initiate an OTB/OTS. Approval, coordination
     and implementation shall be in accordance with the table below:
     1.5.3. Contractual EVM reporting requirements, while implementing OTB/OTS, shall not be
     waived/modified without prior coordination through SMC/FM. PMs shall continue EVM
     reporting to PEO/Air Force/OSD (including MAR, DAES) unless otherwise directed by the
     PEO.
SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010                                                                       7


Table 1.1. OTB/OTS Initiation and Implementation Requirements.
                                        OTB Estimated Value
                                        Less than / equal to
                                                                Greater than $50M
                                                       $50M
    PCO Written Acknowledgement         Within 30 Calendar Days from Request
    Benefit Analysis by Program
                                        Required
                  Office
    Coordination with Integrated
                                        Recommended               Required
                  Staff1
                                  Required
    Contractor and Government PMs
                                  When the OTB is anticipated to exceed $50M, the
                  Comprehensive
                                                Integrated Staff1 shall participate in the
                  Estimate to
                                                generation of a single ETC with the
                  Complete (ETC)
                                                Program Office.
    Approval Authority            Program Directors        PEO
    PCO Written Authorization     Required
                                  Required for OTBs valued at 15% or greater of the
    IBR
                                                Contract Budget to Complete

 Note: 1 Integrated Staff includes SMC/EA, SMC/FM, SMC/PI, and SMC/PK.

1.6. Single Point Adjustment (SPA). SPA refers to eliminating cumulative performance
variances (setting cost and/or schedule variances to zero). SPAs shall not be performed solely to
improve contract performance metrics. Therefore a SPA will not be permitted without the
execution of an OTB/OTS formal reprogramming action, or PEO authorization with coordination
by the Integrated Staff.
1.7. EVM Analysis. Program Offices are required to perform effective EVM analysis as
described in Table 1.2 EVM Analysis Process. The Integrated Staff will assist as a contributing
member as requested by Program Office or PEO.
 8                                                             SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010


Table 1.2. EVM Analysis Process.

Type                             Frequency             Actions Required
1. EVM Compliance Analysis
Validate compliance of           Based on              For contracts requiring submission to
Contract Performance Report      contractual CDRL      OSD EVM Central Repository (EVM-
(CPR), Integrated Master         requirements          CR), acceptance/rejection of each
Schedule (IMS), and Contract                           document is in accordance with EVM-
Funds Status Report (CFSR)                             CR requirements.
submittals with contractual                            For all other contracts, PCO submits
CDRL requirements.                                     rejection to contractor with notification
                                                       to Integrated Staff1.
                                                       PM should reconcile CPR report formats
                                                       and reconcile CFSR to the CPR.
                                                       CPR, IMS, and CFSR shall be submitted
                                                       to the Integrated Staff 1 or provided
                                                       access to digital versions.
2. EVM Performance Analysis (Cost, schedule, technical performance, PMB integrity and etc.)
                                                       Out-brief to:
                                                         Program Directors – monthly
                                                         PEO – based on PMR schedule
    a) By Program Offices       Monthly                Analysis shall be submitted to the
                                                                       1
                                                       Integrated Staff or provided access to
                                                       digital versions.
                                Support MAR/PMR/Benchmarking Reviews and as PEO
    b) By Integrated Staff 1
                                requests; assist Program Offices as required
                              2
3. EVM Predictability Analysis (Forward looking analysis)
    a) Risk-Based ETC/EAC       at least Quarterly
    b) Schedule Risk            Minimum of every
                                                       Out-brief to:
    Assessment (SRA)            6 months or during
                                                        Program Directors –
    (Contracts > $50M)          IBR
                                                                       Quarterly/Annually
    c) Comprehensive EAC
                                                        PEO – Based on PMR Schedule
    Integrated into annual
                                at least Annually
    Program Office Estimate
                                                       ETC/EAC and SRA shall be submitted
    (POE) process
                                                       to the Integrated Staff 1 or provided
    d) Schedule Risk            Minimum of every access to digital versions.
    Assessment (SRA)            12 months or
    (Contracts < $50M)          during IBR

Notes:
1
  Integrated Staff includes SMC/EA, SMC/FM, SMC/PI, and SMC/PK.
2
  Applicable only to weapon systems acquisition (except support/services) contracts.
SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010                                                                      9



                                           Chapter 2

                             ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Program Office (PO) will:
   2.1.1. Comply with EVM regulations/policies/instructions and guidance.
   2.1.2. Manage acquisition program costs and schedule to meet all performance requirements
   within approved baselines, program direction, and the acquisition strategy.
   2.1.3. Develop and execute procedures for consistent oversight and enforcement actions for
   noncompliance with EVM policies and guidance, as needed.
   2.1.4. Assist in developing & maintaining policy/guidance & related training materials.
   2.1.5. Attend EVM training established by SMC/FM and PO as required.
   2.1.6. Manage EVM training necessary for the development of organizational expertise
   2.1.7. Participate on SMC EVM working groups.
   2.1.8. Use EVM as a management tool for effective program management.
   2.1.9. Coordinate, develop, and maintain Memorandums of Agreement (MoA) with DCMA
   to supplement SMC MoAs for additional specific program requirements.
   2.1.10. Provide support on EVMS compliance reviews and surveillance activities by DCMA
   as requested by the SMC EVM Focal Point.
   2.1.11. Determine EVM applicability and reporting requirements in accordance with EVM
   policy, Instruction and guidance.
   2.1.12. Document EVM requirements in acquisition planning documents, including
   acquisition strategy, in accordance with EVM policy and Contract Requirements guidance.
   2.1.13. Include EVM requirements in the Request of Proposals (RFPs) in accordance with
   EVM policy and Contract Requirements guidance.
   2.1.14. During source selection/sole-source activities conduct evaluation of the contractors
   proposals related to EVM/EVMS in accordance with RFP requirements.
   2.1.15. Ensure that the final Offerors’ proposals adequately addressed EVM requirements.
   2.1.16. Monitor baseline validity and integrity.
   2.1.17. Lead & execute the OTB/OTS process in accordance with SMC policy/guidance.
   2.1.18. Lead and execute IBRs as required in accordance with SMC policy and guidance.
   2.1.19. Perform EVM analysis (compliance, performance, and predictability) in accordance
   with SMC EVM policy (see table 1.2) and guidance.
   2.1.20. Use SMC EVM standardized metrics for providing insight into program/contract cost
   and schedule performance issues.
 10                                                             SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010


   2.1.21. Ensure that the resulting level-one data for each contract with EVM requirements is
   reported in the System Metric and Reporting Tool (SMART) and reconciles with the Defense
   Acquisition Executive Summary (DAES) if applicable.
2.2. The SMC Integrated Staff. SMC/FM as the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) for
EVM on behalf of the Integrated Staff will:
   2.2.1. Function as the SMC EVM focal point and subject matter expert on interpretation,
   implementation, compliance and enforcement of EVM policy/instruction and guidance.
   2.2.2. Develop and maintain SMC EVM policy/instruction and guidance to supplement that
   established by Higher Headquarters (OSD, Air Force).
   2.2.3. Monitor PO compliance with EVM policy/instruction and guidance.
   2.2.4. Participate in EVM working groups (including DOD/Air Force/Industry).
   2.2.5. Serve as advisor to the PO for all EVM related activities as requested.
   2.2.6. Develop and maintain SMC Level MoA with DCMA.
   2.2.7. Support DCMA and contractors in EVMS reviews and surveillance activities.
   2.2.8. Monitor training needs and work with all appropriate stakeholder organizations to
   develop, field, and maintain efficient and effective workforce EVM training.
   2.2.9. Sponsor EVM-related projects and studies.Manage SMC tools and licenses.
   2.2.10. Develop, monitor, and report on EVM standardized processes; ensure processes and
   metrics provide insight into program/contract cost and schedule performance issues for
   consistency of requirements, reviews and analysis.
   2.2.11. Develop and maintain central EVM data system and tools to provide access to EVM
   related information SMC-wide for decision making purposes.
   2.2.12. Assist PO in interpretation, preparation, and implementation:
      2.2.12.1. EVM applicability and reporting requirements for acquisition planning/strategy
      documents and RFPs in accordance with section 1.1.
      2.2.12.2. Evaluate Offeror’s proposals (if elected as a source selection or sole-source
      evaluation team member), and ensure that the final Offeror’s proposals adequately
      represent EVM requirements in accordance with the RFP.
SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010                                                              11


  2.2.13. In accordance with SMC EVM policy (Chapter 1) assist Program Offices in:
     2.2.13.1. EVM analytical support.
     2.2.13.2. Activities related to OTB/OTS.
     2.2.13.3. IBRs as requested by the IBR chair.
     2.2.13.4. Monitor baseline activities and EVM performance on contracts and conduct
     periodic independent assessments and predictability analysis.

                                         John T. Sheridan, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         Commander
 12                                                           SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010


                                       Attachment 1
       GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION

References
Air Force Instruction 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management, 17 April
2009.
DFARS, Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement.
DODI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 8 Dec 2008.
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense (OUSD) Acquisition, Technology and Logistics
(AT&L) Memorandum, 7 Mar 05, Revision to DOD Earned Value Management Policy.
OUSD (AT&L) Memorandum, 3 Jul 07, Subject: Use of EVM in the DOD (including attached
DOD EVM Roles and Responsibilities).
FAR, Federal Acquisition Regulation.
Office of Management and Budget, Circular A-11, Part 7, Planning, Budgeting, Acquisition, and
Management of Capital Assets, June 2008.
ANSI/EIA-748, American National Standards Institute/Electronic Industries Alliance standard,
Earned Value Management Systems.
DOD Earned Value Management Implementation Guide (EVMIG), Oct 2006.
General Accounting Office, Cost Estimating and Assessment Guide: Best Practices for
Developing and Managing Capital Program Costs GAO-09-3SP, 2 March 2009.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACAT—Acquisition Category
AFI—Air Force Instruction
ANSI/EIA—748 American National Standards Institute/Electronic Industries Alliance Standard
748
ATP—Authorization to Proceed
AT&L—Acquisition, Technology and Logistics
CDR—Critical Design Review
CDRL—Contract Data Requirements List
CFSR—Contract Funds Status Report
CPR—Contract Performance Report
DAES—Defense Acquisition Executive Summary
DARPA—Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
DCARC—Defense Cost and Resource Center
DCMA—Defense Contract Management Agency
SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010                                  13


DFARS—Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
DID—Data Item Description
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DRG—Direct Reporting Group
EAC—Estimate at Completion
ETC—Estimate to Completion
EVM—Earned Value Management
EVMIG—Earned Value Management Implementation Guide
EVMS—Earned Value Management System
EVM—CR – DOD EVM Central Repository
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
GAO—Government Accountability Office
IBR—Integrated Baseline Review
IMP—Integrated Master Plan
IMS—Integrated Master Schedule
LOE—Level of Effort
MAR—Monthly Acquisition Report
MDA—Milestone Decision Authority
MFR—Memorandum for Record
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
OMB—Office of Management and Budget
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
OTB—Over-Target Baseline
OTS—Over-Target Schedule
OUSD—Office of the Under Secretary of Defense
PCO—Procuring Contracting Officer
PDR—Preliminary Design Review
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PM—Program Manager
PMAG—Program Management Assistance Group
 14                                                            SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010


PMB— Performance Measurement Baseline
PMR— Program Management Review
PO— Program Office
RFP— Request for Proposal
SAE— Service Acquisition Executive
SMART— System Metric and Reporting Tool
SMC— Space and Missile Systems Center
SMC/CC— SMC Commander
SMC/CD— SMC Executive Director
SMC/CV— SMC Vice Commander
SMC/EA— SMC, Office of the Director, Engineering Architecture
SMC/FM— SMC, Office of the Director, Financial Management and Comptroller
SMC/PI— SMC, Office of the Director, Program Management and Integration
SMC/PK— SMC, Office of the Directorate of Contracting
SOW— Statement of Work
SPA— Single Point Adjustment
SRA— Schedule Risk Assessment

Terms
Acquisition—The conceptualization, initiation, design, development, testing, contracting,
production, deployment, and disposal of a directed and funded effort that provides a new,
improved, or continued material, weapon, information system, logistics support, or service
capability in response to an approved need.
Acquisition Strategy—A high-level business and technical management approach designed to
achieve program objectives within specified resource constraints. It is the framework for
planning, organizing, staffing, controlling, and leading a program. PM is responsible for
developing and documenting the acquisition strategy, which conveys the program objectives,
direction, and means of control, based on the integration of strategic, technical, and resource
concerns.
Actual Cost of Work Performed (ACWP) (or Actual Cost)—The costs actually incurred and
recorded in accomplishing the work performed within a given time period
Authorization to Proceed (ATP)—The official authority for the contractor to begin work
(usually issued by the Procuring Contracting Officer (PCO)).
ANSI/EIA-748—EVMS 32 guidelines published as an American National Standards
Institute/Electronic Industries Alliance standard, Earned Value Management Systems.The DOD
formally adopted ANSI/EIA-748.If the ANSI/EIA-748 standard is changed or updated, DOD
will review and determine if the document still meets the Government’s needs.
SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010                                                                       15


Baseline— (See Performance Measurement Baseline).
Budget at Completion (BAC)—The sum of all performance budgets established for the
contract.
Budget to Complete (BTC)—The sum of all performance budgets established for the contract
to be completed. BTC=BAC-ACWP.
Contract Type—See Cost-reimbursement, Incentive contracts and Firm-fixed-price contracts.
Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL)—A list of authorized data requirements for a
specific contract. It is comprised of DD Form(s) 1423 containing data requirements and delivery
information. The purpose of the CDRL is to provide a standardized method of clearly and
unambiguously delineating the Government's essential data needs based on tailoring DID(s) for
reporting deliverable (See DID, CPR, CFSR, IMS)
Contract Funds Status Report (CFSR)—A management report prepared by the contractor in
accordance with DID: DI-MGMT-81468, which provides contract funding data to Program
Managers for (a) updating and forecasting contract funds requirements, (b) planning and decision
making on funding changes to contracts, (c) developing funds requirements and budget estimates
in support of approved programs, (d) determining funds in excess of contract needs and available
for de-obligation, and (e) obtaining rough estimates of termination costs.
Contract Performance Report (CPR)—A management report prepared by the contractor in
accordance with DID: DI-MGMT-81466A. CPR provides timely, reliable summary-level data
with which to assess current and projected contract performance.
Contractor—An entity in private industry which enters into contract with the Government. The
term also applies to Government-owned, Government-operated activities which perform work on
major defense programs.
Cost contracts—see cost reimbursement contracts.
Cost-reimbursement—Contracts which provide for payment of allowable incurred costs, to the
extent prescribed in the contract. These contracts establish an estimate of total cost for the
purpose of obligating funds and establishing a ceiling that the contractor may not exceed (except
at its own risk) without the approval of the contracting officer (FAR Subpart 16.3). Cost-
reimbursement contracts include the following contracts: Cost (Subpart 16.302), Cost-sharing
(Subpart 16.303), Cost-plus-incentive-fee (Subpart 16.304), Cost-plus-award-fee (Subpart
16.305), and Cost-plus-fixed-fee (Subpart 16.306).
Data Item Description (DID)—A document specifically defines intended use, the data content,
format, and preparation instructions for the data deliverable resulting from the task in the
statement of work. ((See CDRL, CFSR, CPR, IMS).
Discrete Activities/Effort—Lower level tasks/activities that are related to the completion of
specific end products or services and can be directly planned and measured.
Earned Value Management (EVM)—A program management tool that integrates the work
scope, schedule, and cost parameters of a program, in a manner providing objective performance
measurement and management.
Earned Value Management System (EVMS)—A company’s management system and related
sub-systems that establishes the relationship between the cost, schedule, and technical aspects of
 16                                                               SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010


the work; measures progress objectively with earned value metrics; accumulates actual costs;
allows for analysis of deviations from plans; allows for forecasting of estimated costs; and
provides discipline in incorporating changes to the baseline in a timely manner.
EVM Central Repository (EVM-CR)—DOD’s single EVM central repository administered by
the DCARC, which provides for and supports the centralized reporting, collection, and
distribution for CPR, CFSR, and IMS of all DOD contractors for ACAT I programs. The purpose
of the CR is to establish a source of authoritative data and to provide timely access to the data to
OSD, Services and DOD components. To be the authoritative source of contract EVM data, the
data provided directly by the contractors and reviewed and approved by the Government
Program Office.
Estimate at Completion (EAC)—The estimated costs to complete all authorized work from
inception to the end of the contract, which equal to the sum of actual costs to date plus the
estimated costs to complete (see below).
Estimate to Complete (ETC)—Estimate of costs to complete all authorized work from a given
point in time to the end of the contract.
Firm-fixed-price contracts—Contracts for a price that is not subject to any adjustment on the
basis of the contractor’s cost experience in performing the contract (FAR Subpart 16.202).
Formal Reprogramming—A comprehensive replanning of the remaining PMB that results in a
total budget and/or total schedule in excess of contractual requirements.(See OTB and OTS).
Formal Validation—A formal recognition of certification by the DCMA that a company’s
EVMS meets the guidelines in ANSI/EIA-748.
Indefinite-delivery contract— Contract for a supply that does not procure or specify a firm
quantity of supplies (other than a minimum or maximum quantity) and that provides for the
issuance of orders for the delivery of supplies during the period of the contract. There are three
types of indefinite-delivery contracts: definite-quantity contracts (FAR Subpart 16.502),
requirements contracts (FAR Subpart 16.503), and indefinite-quantity contracts (FAR Subpart
16.504).
Incentive contracts— Contracts described in FAR Subpart 16.4 which includes 2 major
categories:
1.     Fixed—price incentive contracts includes: Fixed-price incentive (Subpart16.403) and
Fixed-price contracts with award fees (Subpart16.404)
2.      Cost—reimbursement incentive contracts (Subpart 16.405) includes: Cost-plus-
incentive-fee (Subpart 16.405-1), Cost-plus-award-fee (Subpart 16.405-2).
Integrated Baseline Review (IBR)— A joint Government/contractor review to assess the
realism and accuracy of the integrated PMB (verify the technical content and the realism of the
related performance budgets, resources, and schedules). It should provide a mutual
understanding and agreement of the inherent risks in contractors’ performance plans and the
underlying management control systems, and it should formulate a plan to handle these risks.
Integrated Master Plan (IMP)—An event-based plan consisting of a hierarchy of program
events, with each event being supported by specific accomplishments, and each accomplishment
associated with specific criteria to be satisfied for its completion.The IMP is normally part of the
SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010                                                                      17


contract and thus contractually binding.The IMP is a narrative explaining the overall
management of the program.
Integrated Master Schedule (IMS)— An integrated schedule containing the networked,
detailed tasks necessary to ensure successful program execution. The IMS is prepared by the
contractor in accordance with DID: DI-MGMT-81468 and shall be used to verify attainability of
contract objectives, to evaluate progress toward meeting program objectives, and to integrate the
program schedule activities with all related components.
Level of Effort (LOE)— Effort of a general or supportive nature which does not produce
definite end products and cannot be practically measured by discrete earned value
techniques.Earned value is measured by the passage of time.
Milestone Decision Authority (MDA)— The designated individual with overall responsibility
for a program. The MDA shall have the authority to approve entry of an acquisition program into
the next phase of the acquisition process and shall be accountable for cost, schedule, and
performance reporting to higher authority, including congressional reporting.
Milestone/Gated Event— A program assessment point that occurs at the culmination of
significant program activities: accomplishments and criteria.It is a specific definable
accomplishment in the contract network, recognizable at a particular point in time.
Over Target Baseline (OTB)—A replanning actions involving establishment of performance
budget that exceeds the value of the negotiated contract. An OTB is a new baseline for
management when the original objectives cannot be met and new goals are needed for
management purposes.
Over Target Schedule (OTS)—An established schedule that extends beyond the contract
milestones or delivery dates.
Performance Measurement Baseline (PMB)—The time-phased budget plan for accomplishing
work, against which contract performance is measured.
Program Executive Officer (PEO)—The individual dedicated to executive management and
supervision of a portfolio of mission-related ACAT and selected programs. The PEO shall be
chartered by and is accountable to the SAE.
Program Manager (PM)—The designated individual with responsibility for and authority to
accomplish program objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user's
operational needs. The PM shall be accountable for credible cost, schedule, and performance
reporting to the MDA.
Program Office (PO)—The Government office that has the assigned authority and
responsibility to directly manage a program.
Schedule—A plan which shows when specified work is to be done to accomplish program
objectives on time.
Single Point Adjustment (SPA)—An event of eliminating cumulative performance variances
(setting cost and/or schedule variances to zero)
Schedule Risk Assessment (SRA)—A process which uses statistical techniques to identify
technical, programmatic, and schedule risks in a program and quantifies the impact of those risks
on the program’s schedule.
 18                                                            SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010


Statement of Work (SOW)—The document that defines the work scope requirements for a
contract.
Surveillance—Annual process by the DCMA, assessing the continuing compliance of the
company’s EVMS with ANSI/EIA-748 and the company’s written EVMS.
Time-and-Materials contracts— Contracts described in FAR Subpart 16.6 which provide for
acquiring supplies or services on the basis of: (1) direct labor hours at specified fixed hourly
rates that include wages, overhead, general and administrative expenses, and profit; and (2)
actual cost for materials.
SMCI63-107 4 AUGUST 2010                                                                                             19


                                                      Attachment 2
               EVM IMPLEMENTATION POLICY PER DODI 5000.02 (TABLE 5)

A2.1. Table A2.1 EVM Implementation Policy per DODI 5000.02 (Table 5).

REQUIREMENTS                                      SOURCE                WHEN REQUIRED
                                                  Part 7 of OMB
For Cost/Incentive Contracts1 ≥ $50
                                                  Circular A-11,
Million2
                                                  And DODI
Compliance with EVM system guidelines          5000.02               At contract award and throughout contract
   in ANSI/EIA-7483                                                     performance
EVM system formally validated and                                    At contract award and throughout contract
   accepted by cognizant contracting officer                            performance
Contract Performance Report                                          Monthly
   (DI-MGMT-81466A)
Integrated Master Schedule                                           Monthly
   (DI-MGMT-81650)
Integrated Baseline Reviews                                          Within 180 days after contract award,
                                                                        exercise of options, and major
                                                                        modifications
For Cost/Incentive Contracts1 ≥ $20               Part 7 of OMB
Million2 but < $50 Million2                       Circular A-11,
Compliance with EVM system guidelines          And DODI              At contract award and throughout contract
   in ANSI/EIA-7483(no formal EVM                 5000.02               performance
   system validation)
Contract Performance Report (DI-                                     Monthly
   MGMT-81466A) (tailoring
   recommended)
Integrated Master Schedule                                           Monthly
   (DI-MGMT-81650) (tailoring
   recommended)
Integrated Baseline Reviews                                          Within 180 days after contract award,
                                                                        exercise of options, and major
                                                                        modifications
For Cost/Incentive Contracts1 < $20 Million2 Part 7 of OMB              At the discretion of the PM based on cost-
                                             Circular A-11,             benefit analysis
For Firm Fixed-Price Contracts1 regardless   And DODI                   Limited Use–must be approved by the
of dollar value                              5000.02                    MDA based on a business case analysis
Notes:
1.The term, ―Contracts,‖ includes contracts, subcontracts, intra-government work agreements, and other agreements.
―Incentive‖ contracts include fixed-price incentive.
2.Application thresholds are in then-year dollars.
3.ANSI/EIA-748 = American National Standards Institute/Electronic Industries Alliance Standard 748, Earned Value
Management Systems
