Administrative Changes to SMCI 63-1205, The SMC System Safety Program

Paragraph 5.10.3. change “Tables A.1.8 – A.1.11” to read “Tables A2.7 to A2.10
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER
SPACE & MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER                                                    INSTRUCTION 63-1205

                                                                                                                  28 JUNE 2011

                                                                                                                        Acquisition

                                                                       THE SMC SYSTEM SAFETY PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: SMC/SES                                                                                          Certified by: SMC/SES
                                                                                                       (Mr. Thomas Meyers)
                                                                                                                     Pages: 85


This instruction implements AFPD 91-2. It consolidates system safety principles derived from
DoDI 5000.02, DoDI 3100.12, AFI 91-202_AFSPCSUP1_I, AFI 91-217, AFI 63-101, AFI 63-
1201, AFMAN 63-119, AFI 91-204_AFSPCSUP_I, AFMAN 91-222, AFI 91-103, AFSPCMAN
91-710 and MIL-STD-882C/D. It establishes SMC mishap prevention requirements, assigns
responsibilities for program elements and contains system safety program management
information required in system acquisition and Air Force safety directives, from concept through
disposal. It applies throughout program life cycle of all SMC acquisition programs and projects
(existing and future SMC space systems) that involve design, development, modification,
evaluation, demonstration, testing, operation and disposal. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. This
publication may not be supplemented. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the OPR using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate chain of command to SMC/SE, 483
N. Aviation Blvd., El Segundo, CA 90245-2808.



Chapter 1—PROGRAM OVERVIEW                                                                                                       3
       1.1.   Program System Safety. .........................................................................................   3
       1.2.   Risk Assessment and Management. .......................................................................            8
       1.3.   System Safety in the Acquisition Cycle. ................................................................           8
 2                                                                                              SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


Chapter 2—AUTHORITY, RESPONSIBILITY AND PROCESS                                                                                                  9
       2.1.    SMC/CC. ................................................................................................................          9
       2.2.    System Safety Process. ..........................................................................................                 9

Chapter 3—SYSTEM SAFETY IN SMC SYSTEMS AND PROGRAMS LIFE CYCLE                                                                                 14
       3.1.    System Safety in SMC Programs. ..........................................................................                       14
Figure 3.1.    Hazard Analysis Time Phased Relationships .........................................................                             14
       3.2.    Pre-Materiel Solution Analysis (Pre-MSA). ..........................................................                            15
       3.3.    Pre-Systems Acquisition (MSA through TD). .......................................................                               15
       3.4.    Systems Acquisition (EMD through P&D). ..........................................................                               19
       3.5.    Sustainment (O&S Phase). .....................................................................................                  22

Chapter 4—SYSTEM SAFETY KEY FUNCTIONS                                                                                                          25
       4.1.    System Safety Functions. .......................................................................................                25
Table 4.1.     System Safety Functional Groups. .........................................................................                      25
       4.2.    System Safety Management and Planning. ............................................................                             25
       4.3.    System Safety Engineering. ...................................................................................                  44
       4.4.    System Safety in Operations and Testing. .............................................................                          49

Chapter 5—OTHER ACTIVITIES REQUIRING MAJOR SYSTEM SAFETY
            INVOLVEMENT                                                                                                                        52
       5.1.    Other Activities and the System Safety Function. .................................................                              52
       5.2.    Orbital Operations and Safety. ...............................................................................                  52
       5.3.    Programmatic Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Evaluation (PESHE)                                                     53
       5.4.    Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E). ...............................                                     53
       5.5.    SMC Independent Readiness Review Team (IRRT). ............................................                                      54
       5.6.    Range Safety. .........................................................................................................         54
       5.7.    Risk Management. .................................................................................................              55
       5.8.    Interface with Air Force Operational Test & Evaluation Center (AFOTEC). .......                                                 55
       5.9.    USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution (DRI&R), T.O. 00-35D-54 55
       5.10.   Risk Management Plans. ........................................................................................                 56
Table 5.1.     Translation of MIL-STD-882D Risk Matrix to the OSD Risk Management Guide Matrix.
               ................................................................................................................................. 57

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 58

Attachment 2—APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS LIST                                                                                                         65
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                      3



                                          Chapter 1

                                  PROGRAM OVERVIEW

1.1. Program System Safety. Program Managers (PM) or Product Support Managers (PSM),
regardless of the Acquisition Category (ACAT) of their programs, are required to integrate
system safety into their overall systems engineering and risk management processes (USD
AT&L Letter, 23 Sep 2004). This document provides instruction in implementing the USD
AT&L acquisition policy and it applies to all SMC acquisition programs and projects (existing
and future SMC space systems) that involve design, development, modification, evaluation,
demonstration, testing, operation and disposal. This instruction requires implementation of
system safety requirements throughout the system life cycle to include Pre-Systems Acquisition,
Systems Acquisition and Sustainment activities. Components of these activities include and
correspond to defined scope of the Materiel Solution Analysis, Technology Development,
Engineering & Manufacturing Development, Production & Deployment and Operations &
Support phases of the program (see Figure 1.1 below). This instruction also requires
implementation and maintenance of rigorous Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
(OSS&E).
   1.1.1. Figure 1.1 is based on DoDI 5000.02. It shows the life cycle of each space and
   missile system acquisition program (i.e., launch vehicle, spacecraft, ground control, and user
   equipment for which system safety requirements must be implemented). It aligns the system
   safety activities with other major system acquisition milestones. It covers the development
   of a solicitation, contract award, and management of the acquired system(s), from initial
   concept through the end of system life, including disposal.
 4                                                                   SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


Figure 1.1. Acquisition Phase /Flow Comparison




     .


         1.1.2. Contribution to mission success. Through systematic identification and control of the
         Systems Directorate’s or Division’s mishap risks, the system safety management,
         engineering and operational processes provide critical support to the program’s ability to
         meet its performance, cost and schedule goals. If this process is not implemented, or is not
         thoroughly planned and effectively applied, the resulting impact to the program may be
         catastrophic. These mishap-related risks include loss of mission capability, personnel
         injuries or human life, equipment damage, environmental contamination/damage, or
         ultimately the degradation or failure of the war-fighting mission and/or loss of combat
         personnel, systems and equipment.
         1.1.3. Execution. The execution of the system safety process produces a major portion of
         the required documentation used to meet the SMC mandated Space Flight Worthiness (SFW)
         criteria. The SMC Engineering Directorate (SMC/EN), with assistance from the Directorate
         of Safety (SMC/SE) - creates and maintains, on behalf of the SMC Commander, the policy
         and guidance for SFW criteria. Each Program Office must tailor, build and maintain the
         SFW criteria for its own systems and program(s). The Program Office coordinates its SFW
         criteria with SMC/EN and SMC/SE representatives occasionally, such as when developing it
         or before milestone reviews, to seek advice. The Program Office formally coordinates the
         SFW criteria with SMC/EN and SMC/SE at least 30 days before presenting it before
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                      5


  SMC/CC or CD, as at the Flight Readiness Review/Operational Readiness Review
  (FRR/ORR).
  1.1.4. System Safety Metrics. Metrics are applied to gauge the robustness of the Systems
  Directorates’ system safety programs. SMC/SE generates the metrics as an independent
  evaluation and is provided to SMC/CC prior to SMC Program Management Reviews
  (PMRs). The metrics are generated to establish system safety goals and indicators of
  performance so satisfactory conduct of system safety at SMC can be measured throughout
  program life cycle.
  1.1.5. Application of Requirements. As a significant contributing factor in the SMC mishap
  prevention program, every level of responsibility in the SMC acquisition activity shall
  implement SMCI 63-1205. Mishap prevention results from intelligent and systematic
  application of sound policies and trustworthy management and engineering skills. Mishap
  prevention also results from the degree of safety achieved in a given system, which is directly
  dependent upon the amount of management (government and contractor) emphasis.
     1.1.5.1. Application of Requirements By Function. Commanders, functional managers,
     supervisors, and individuals must all contribute to the system safety mishap prevention
     program. An effective system safety program depends on individuals integrating mishap
     prevention at every organizational level and complying with applicable SMC safety
     policy and standards.
     1.1.5.2. Application of Requirements In The Systems Directorate or Division. Systems
     Directorates must establish specific plans, instructions and procedures to ensure that all
     personnel and acquisition activities comply with SMCI 63-1205. Appropriate system
     safety verbiage must be included in key program documentation including the System
     Safety Management Plan (SSMP), Systems Engineering Plan (SEP), Test and Evaluation
     Management Plan (TEMP), Human Systems Integration Plan (HSIP), Cost Analysis
     Requirements Description (CARD) and in the Programmatic Environment, Safety and
     Occupational Health Evaluation (PESHE) document.
     1.1.5.3. System Safety in Risk Management. System Safety must interface with Program
     Risk Management and must be represented in all key program elements including
     resources, processes and documentation. For example, system safety must be integrated
     in planning, cost analysis, configuration management, decision-making and record
     keeping activities.
     1.1.5.4. Application of Requirements In Activities. SMCI 63-1205 requirements must
     also be applied on internal acquisition practices as well as on contracted activities. It
     covers the development of a solicitation, contract award, and management of the acquired
     system(s), from initial concept through the end of the program life, including disposal.
     1.1.5.5. In Relationship to Other Technical Functions. The Systems Director, PM or
     PSM shall ensure that the system safety efforts are integrated across disciplines into
     systems engineering and other appropriate management and engineering disciplines as
     part of the Systems Directorate’s total risk management process.
         1.1.5.5.1. Mishap risk shall be an integral part of each management and engineering
         design task, each technical trade off study/decision, each test plan/test execution and
         operating procedure.
6                                                                 SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


    1.1.6. System Safety Relationship to Other Activities. Some types of systems and programs
    may require other activities such as interfaces with external safety organizations on a fairly
    regular basis. These external organizations include the Air Force Safety Center, Air Force
    Nuclear Weapons Center, Air Force Inspection Agency, Department of Defense Explosives
    Safety Board, the USAF Non-Nuclear Munitions Safety Board, Defense Logistics Agency, or
    operator/user/customer representatives. Applicability of these activities is generally
    described in various DOD, USAF or AFSPC policies and instructions. SMC/SE
    representatives can assist program personnel in determining applicability of special activities
    or external reviews, and in interfacing with external organizations.
    1.1.7. Available Support from SMC/SE. Each Systems Directorate will gain benefit from
    the aggregated experience of SMC/SE by requesting their support, attendance or participation
    in the Systems Directorate’s acquisition activities. The Systems Director or PM or PSM
    must provide SMC/SE personnel access to Systems Directorate and contractor personnel,
    documentation, meetings and facilities to facilitate its support. In turn, SMC/SE will provide
    system safety expertise (provided manpower is available) to help define and resolve Systems
    Directorate’s system safety issues.
    1.1.8. System Safety Order of Precedence. Due to the complexity of space systems, it is
    impractical if not impossible to have them designed hazard-free. System safety precedence
    has been established for satisfying system safety requirements and reducing risks. As hazard
    analyses are performed, hazards will be identified that will require resolution. In selecting
    specific hazard controls, system safety engineers are generally guided by these “System
    Safety Order of Precedence.” The order in which hazard controls are selected is as follows:
       1.1.8.1. Design for minimum risk – Applied from the first design to eliminate hazards. If
       an identified hazard cannot be eliminated, reduce the associated risk to an acceptable
       level through design selection.
       1.1.8.2. Incorporate safety designs – If an identified hazard cannot be eliminated or its
       associated risk cannot be adequately reduced to an acceptable level through design
       selection, that risk shall be reduced to an acceptable level through the use of fixed,
       automatic or other protective safety design features or devices.
       1.1.8.3. Provide warning devices – When neither design nor safety devices can
       effectively eliminate identified hazards or adequately reduce the associated risk, devices
       shall be used to detect the condition and to produce an adequate warning signal. Warning
       devices shall be designed to minimize false alarms and shall be standardized within
       similar systems.
       1.1.8.4. Develop procedures and training – Where it is impractical to eliminate hazards
       through design selection or adequately reduce the associated risk with safety or warning
       devices, procedures and training shall be used. However, without a specific waiver, no
       warning, caution or other form of written advisory shall be used as the only risk
       reduction. Procedures may include the use of personal protective equipment. Safety
       critical tasks may require the certification of personnel proficiency.
    1.1.9. Mishap Risk Condition. Positive action and implementation verification is required to
    reduce the risk due to unacceptable conditions to an acceptable level. The unacceptable and
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                      7


  acceptable mishap risk conditions or definitions described below are traditional and are
  appropriate for space systems.
     1.1.9.1. Unacceptable conditions - The following safety critical conditions are
     considered unacceptable:
         1.1.9.1.1. Single component failure, common mode failure, human error, or design
         features which could cause a mishap of catastrophic or critical severity.
         1.1.9.1.2. Dual independent component failures, dual human errors, or a combination
         of a component failure and a human error involving safety critical command and
         control functions, which could cause a mishap of catastrophic severity.
         1.1.9.1.3. Generation of hazardous ionizing/non-ionizing radiation or energy when
         no provisions have been made to protect personnel or sensitive subsystems from
         damage or adverse effects.
         1.1.9.1.4. Packaging or handling procedures and characteristics which could cause a
         mishap for which no controls have been provided to protect personnel or sensitive
         equipment.
         1.1.9.1.5. Hazard level categories that are specified as unacceptable in the contract or
         government effort.
     1.1.9.2. Acceptable conditions - The following approaches are considered acceptable for
     correcting unacceptable conditions and require no further analysis once controlling
     actions are implemented and verified:
         1.1.9.2.1. For non-safety critical command and control functions, a system design
         that requires two or more independent human errors, or that requires two or more
         independent failures, or a combination of independent failure and human error.
         1.1.9.2.2. For safety critical command and control functions, a system design that
         requires at least three independent failures, or three human errors, or a combination of
         three independent failures and human errors.
         1.1.9.2.3. System designs which positively prevent errors in assembly, installation, or
         conditions which could result in a mishap.
         1.1.9.2.4. System designs which positively prevent damage propagation from one
         component to another or prevent sufficient energy propagation to cause a mishap.
         1.1.9.2.5. System design limitations on operation, interaction, or sequencing which
         preclude occurrence of a mishap.
         1.1.9.2.6. System designs that provide an approved safety factor, or fixed design
         allowance which limit, to an acceptable level, possibilities of structural failure or
         release of energy sufficient to cause a mishap.
         1.1.9.2.7. System designs that control energy build-up which could potentially cause
         a mishap (Fuzes, relief valves, electrical explosion proofing, etc.).
         1.1.9.2.8. System designs in which component failure can be temporarily tolerated
         because of residual strength or alternate operating paths so that operations can
         continue with a reduced but acceptable safety margin.
 8                                                                 SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


            1.1.9.2.9. System designs which positively alert the controlling personnel to a
            hazardous situation for which the capability for operator reaction has been provided.
            1.1.9.2.10. System designs which limit/control the use of hazardous materials.
        1.1.9.3. Several higher level documents drive the use of fault tolerance in space systems
        (some identified below). Provide for meeting fault tolerance using:
            1.1.9.3.1. AFSPCMAN 91-710, Volume 3, Section 3.2 (Systems Without Specific
            Design Criteria) requires dual fault tolerance for catastrophic, single for critical
            hazards.
            1.1.9.3.2. AFI 91-217, Sections 3.3.10 (Safety catastrophic systems will be designed
            to be dual-fault tolerant for catastrophic hazards). The term “safety Catastrophic”
            implies a dual fault tolerance requirement per AFI 91-217.
            1.1.9.3.3. AFI 91-217, Chapter 6, Section 6.4.4 (Warning systems have unique
            operational risks). The term “safety Catastrophic” implies a dual fault tolerance
            requirement per AFI 91-217.
            1.1.9.3.4. Proven and Nationally accepted derivative requirement for risk reduction
            or order of precedence.
1.2. Risk Assessment and Management. System Safety and OSS&E will be identified as
integral parts of a program’s risk management effort integrated with the current SMC
Operational Risk Management (ORM) Integration and Sustainment Plan. The scope of the
assurance and preservation of OSS&E covers a significant portion of all of the program’s risk.
     1.2.1. The use of ORM-based system safety principles, tools, and techniques by all program
     office personnel are critical and will be used in assuring acceptable levels of risk throughout
     the life of the space or missile system.
     1.2.2. A Systems Directorate’s Risk Management Plan which defines the tasks to be
     performed by the government will be in place to assess the impacts of all program risks.
     1.2.3. SMC programs will develop and implement system safety management and
     engineering processes and tools to sustain safety-related baseline capabilities during all
     modifications, upgrades, block changes, training, and other activities.
     1.2.4. The system safety process will contain metrics that document how well the process is
     being employed with respect to the desired measurements of the system’s space flight
     worthiness criteria.
1.3. System Safety in the Acquisition Cycle. The system safety process must provide the PM
or PSM with the necessary information to allow for timely inputs into the integrated management
framework at defined program milestones. With system safety analyses and other management
tools, the system safety program will evaluate and document associated risks with identified
hazards. The system safety activities for the program will involve early and timely participation
and will be sustained throughout the life cycle. The earlier the system safety process can be
started, implemented and accepted, the easier the system safety functions can be performed.
Implementing the system safety process require thorough understanding of the logical systems
engineering approach for obtaining system safety objectives. The System Safety Manager
(SSM) is expected to master the process with guidance from SMC/SE.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                      9


                                          Chapter 2

                   AUTHORITY, RESPONSIBILITY AND PROCESS

2.1. SMC/CC. makes policy and gives direction to ensure the timely application of system
safety in SMC programs.
   2.1.1. Directorate of Safety (SMC/SE). SMC/SE interprets and enforces SMC/CC system
   safety policy. SMC/SE evaluates the safety program of Systems Directorates or Divisions
   and provides advice to SMC/CC on system safety readiness of Air Force Program Executive
   Officer (AFPEO) programs.
      2.1.1.1. System Safety Division (SMC/SES). SMC/SES will interpret and ensure system
      safety policy is applied across programs at SMC. SMC/SES must be the prime source of
      system safety expertise at SMC. SMC/SES engineers will be trained, experienced and
      will be fully qualified system safety experts in all aspects of system safety. SMC/SES
      engineers will have the authority and will be in a capacity to give technical advice to the
      program SSMs.
   2.1.2. Systems Directorate or Division. The Systems Director or Program manager (PM) or
   Product Support Manager (PSM) must ensure that system safety engineering and
   management are integral parts of the systems engineering and management processes and
   will receive proper management attention. Depending on organizational structure, the
   Systems Director may occupy the same position as a Program Manager. At SMC, there may
   be Program Managers within a Systems Directorate or Systems Division. Also, per DTM-
   10-015, 07 October 2010,“..CAEs shall identify and assign a PSM within every ACAT I and
   ACAT II program, prior to but no later than program initiation.” Therefore, the Systems
   Director, Program Manager and Product Support Manager are management entities in the
   Systems Directorate/Division.
      2.1.2.1. The Systems Director or PM or PSM must also provide direct lines of
      communication to their system safety staff (primarily the SSM) to receive timely
      information on identified hazards that have high mishap potential.
      2.1.2.2. System Safety Managers (SSM). SSMs shall manage the implementation of the
      system safety program at the Systems Directorate or Division. SSMs shall be trained and
      experienced and authorized to be in the capacity to perform the duties of a SSM in
      accordance with this SMCI. Unless otherwise stated, SSM throughout this SMCI refers
      to the government appointed person to manage the Systems Directorate’s system safety
      program (see paragraph 2.1.2.3 below).
      2.1.2.3. Systems Directorate or Division System Safety Manager (SSM) Appointment.
      The Systems Director or Program Manager or Product Support Manager shall appoint by
      letter a qualified System Safety Manager (SSM) to clearly define and document risk
      acceptance authority and execution during life-cycle system decisions. Additional
      information on the SSM’s functional role and responsibility are discussed in Chapter 4.
2.2. System Safety Process.
   2.2.1. Safety Program Management. Program management must ensure that safety offices
   monitor program requirements to identify and correct hazards throughout the operational life
10                                                             SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


  of a system or facility to ascertain hazards are identified through operational experience,
  mission changes, environmental effects, or system modification.
     2.2.1.1. Management must also ensure that safety staffs identify and control all hazards
     associated with decommissioning or disposal of a system.
  2.2.2. Staff Support. Expertise from SMC/SE should be sought to adequately scope the
  required system safety effort to include the size and content of the SSMP. SMC/SE can help
  out in providing guidance in generating qualified and abbreviated system safety
  documentation.
  2.2.3. System Safety Assessment of Programs and Criteria. To support the SMC/CC PMRs,
  SMC/SE submits system safety metrics against the Systems Directorates/Divisions.
     2.2.3.1. Criteria used will include the quality and availability of the Systems
     Directorate’s SSMP, System Safety Program Plan (SSPP), Hazard Tracking Tools,
     qualification of their SSM, the quality and frequency of their System Safety Group
     activity, and the robustness of their system safety program as verified and validated by
     the system safety activities described in their PESHE.
  2.2.4. Safety Risk Management. The Program Manager (with support from their safety
  office and contractor and in consultation with SMC/SE) must clearly define and document
  risk acceptance authority during life-cycle system decisions as defined by MIL-STD-882.
     2.2.4.1. Safety risk management identification, resolution, mitigation/elimination,
     disposition and documentation must be applied in a timely manner and integrally linked
     with the acquisition activities delineated in DODI 5000.02, AFI 63-101, AFI 63-1201,
     AFI 91-202_AFSPCSUP_I and this SMCI.
  2.2.5. Environment, Safety and Occupational Health (ESOH). The PM or PSM shall ensure
  that appropriate ESOH efforts are integrated across disciplines and into systems engineering
  to determine system design characteristics that can minimize system, environment and
  personnel risks. System effects may include subsystem and/or component malfunction
  leading to mission failure. System risk reduction may include systems and operations design
  to enhance reliability and safety to promote mission success. Personnel effects may involve
  acute or chronic illness, disability, or death or injury to operators and maintainers; and
  enhancement of job performance and productivity of personnel who operate, maintain, or
  support the system.
     2.2.5.1. The PM or PSM shall apply system safety per MIL-STD-882 in the risk
     reduction process, eliminate ESOH hazards where possible and manage ESOH risks
     where hazards cannot be eliminated.
  2.2.6. Risk Acceptance. PMs or PSMs shall ensure that the status of ESOH risks and
  acceptance decisions is briefed at technical reviews and milestone reviews. The information
  provided at the technical reviews can be used as reference by interested technical disciplines
  to align/re-align program activities or disposition affected by system safety.
     2.2.6.1. Acquisition program reviews and fielding decisions must address the status of all
     high and serious risks, and applicable ESOH technology requirements.
     2.2.6.2. Prior to exposing people, equipment, or the environment to known system-
     related ESOH hazards, the PM or PSM shall document that the associated risks have been
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                     11


     accepted by the following acceptance authorities: the Service Acquisition Executive
     (SAE) for high risks, PEO-level for serious risks, and the PM or PSM for medium and
     low risks. SAE for space programs and for non-space programs is the Assistant Secretary
     of the Air Force for Acquisition (SAF/AQ). Notify through SAF/US and SAF/AQS.
     2.2.6.3. SMC personnel shall ensure that the user representative will be part of this
     process throughout the life cycle, and shall obtain formal concurrence from the user prior
     to all serious and high-risk acceptance decisions. Users will vary from program to
     program but will generally include 14th AF/SE. AFI 91-217 noncompliances are sent to
     14th AF/CC by SMC/CC.
  2.2.7. Risk Acceptance Coordination. Serious and High risk acceptance packages will be
  coordinated with the user representative, SAF/AQR, and AF/SE before submission to the
  SAE for acceptance.
     2.2.7.1. Program offices will coordinate risk acceptance packages with their local safety
     offices, SMC/SE and HQ AFSPC/SE. For space acquisitions, program offices will
     provide SMC/SE, IAW program phase, a list of preliminary and subsequent system
     hazards, mitigation measures, risk assessments, and risk acceptances. Certain risk
     packages must be sent higher for approval, e.g. those involving noncompliance with
     DOD directives and instructions, or with national space policy. Procedural guidance is
     evolving, particularly for launch and orbital systems casualty Expectation, End-of Life,
     debris minimization and collision avoidance requirements and waivers. Check with
     SMC/ENC (SMC Enterprise Compliance Engineering Division) and SMC/SE
     representatives for current information.
  2.2.8. Test Risk Acceptance/Transfer. The PM or PSM, in concert with the user and the
  T&E community, will provide safety releases (to include formal ESOH risk acceptance) to
  the developmental and operational testers prior to any test that involves personnel exposure.
  2.2.9. System Safety Management Plan (SSMP). Program management will ensure that a
  government System Safety Management Plan (SSMP) is generated and its requirements
  flowed down to their contractor’s System Safety Program Plan (SSPP) and accomplished for
  all programs and projects including temporary and permanent modifications.
  2.2.9.1. The SSMP requirement will apply to space product centers, laboratories, and
  systems directorates/divisions and is applicable to all programs, projects, development or
  modification to be evaluated, assessed, or tested, regardless of acquisition category and cost.
     2.2.9.2. Program management must ensure that safety staff and other appropriate
     personnel monitor program requirements to identify and correct hazards throughout the
     total life of the system or facility.
     2.2.9.3. Program Office personnel with System Safety responsibilities will ensure that
     safety criteria, hazard identification, resolution and disposition for all in-house and
     contractual programs are documented.
  2.2.10. Programmatic ESOH Evaluation (PESHE). DoDI 5000.02 requires the PM or PSM,
  regardless of program ACAT level to prepare a PESHE which incorporates the MIL-STD-
  882D process and requires certain content. Other policies such as AFI 63-101 require
  additional content, and a future SMCI specific to PESHE is planned. Consult SMC/ENC,
12                                                              SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


  SMC/SES and SMC/SEO for current comprehensive environmental, safety and health
  instructions and advice. A summary of the required PESHE content, which the SSM is
  expected to participate in developing, follows:
     2.2.10.1. Identification of ESOH responsibilities.
     2.2.10.2. Strategy for including ESOH considerations into the systems engineering
     process.
     2.2.10.3. Identification of ESOH risks and their status.
     2.2.10.4. Description of the method for tracking hazards throughout the life cycle of the
     system.
     2.2.10.5. Identification of hazardous materials, wastes, and pollutants associated with the
     system and plans for their minimization and/or safe disposal.
  2.2.11. SSMP and PESHE Schedules. The PESHE is required to support milestone
  decisions (MS) with an initial submittal at MS-B and updated at MS-C and Full-Rate
  Production (or Full Deployment) Decision Review (DR). Adequate lead time will be
  considered when contracting out data deliverables required as data source for the PESHE.
  The PESHE document must be coordinated by SMC/SE and SMC/EN, signed by the
  Systems Director and approved by the appropriate management authority prior to the MS
  decision it supports. The SSMP and PESHE program schedules and activities will
  correspond and/or complement each other.
  2.2.12. DoDI 5000.02 also states that the Acquisition Strategy shall incorporate a summary
  of the PESHE. If personnel support from SMC/SES is available, the SSM (or PM or PSM)
  may request assistance from SMC/SES when generating system safety sections of the
  PESHE.
  2.2.13. Demilitarization and Disposal. The approach for integrating safety considerations
  into the Demilitarization and Disposal planning process shall be delineated in the SSMP. At
  the end of its useful life, a system shall be demilitarized and disposed of in accordance with
  all legal and regulatory requirements and policy relating to safety (including explosives
  safety), security, and the environment. Disposal shall take into consideration space debris
  and public safety risk minimization or elimination. During the design process, PMs or PSMs
  must, with SSM assistance, document (in the PESHE) hazardous materials contained in the
  system and shall estimate and plan for the system’s demilitarization and safe disposal.
  2.2.14. Mishap Investigation Support. PMs or PSMs shall support system-related Class A
  and B mishap investigations (and other classes of safety investigations as appropriate) by
  providing analyses of hazards that contributed to the mishap and recommendations for
  materiel risk mitigation measures, especially those that minimize human errors. Mishap and
  event classifications and categories are discussed in AFI 91-204_AFSPCSUP1 and AFMAN
  91-222.
  2.2.15. Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, And Resolution. PMs or PSMs must ensure
  that their System Safety Managers (SSMs) are fully trained and qualified to effectively
  implement and participate in the USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System
  (DRIS). This system promotes the ability to identify and correct deficiencies before they
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                  13


  impact mission capability; thus, promoting Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
  (OSS&E).
 14                                                                SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


                                            Chapter 3

        SYSTEM SAFETY IN SMC SYSTEMS AND PROGRAMS LIFE CYCLE

3.1. System Safety in SMC Programs. System Safety will be implemented in Pre-Systems
Acquisition, Systems Acquisition and Sustainment activities. Pre-Systems Acquisition covers
activities from both Materiel Solution Analysis (MSA) and Technology Development (TD)
program phases. Systems Acquisition covers activities from both Engineering & Manufacturing
Development (EMD) and Production & Deployment (P&D) program phases. Sustainment
covers activities in the Operations & Support (O&S) program phase and includes disposal. At
the onset of the program cycle, the SSM will participate in the evaluation of the various
candidate architectures and development of the selected concept by providing essential
information (such as identification of energetic materials/explosives, identification of hazardous
conditions/operations) to support the selection of the most suitable materials to use. The SSM
may consult with SMC/SES for assistance.
The figure below illustrates the time-phased relationship of system safety analyses.

Figure 3.1. Hazard Analysis Time Phased Relationships




   3.1.1. System Safety is applicable throughout the entire System and Program life cycle, and
   is applied to mishap prevention and mishap risk management at all system levels. Potential
   losses to the government and reportable mishaps to be prevented may include those occurring
   pre-range/launch (e.g. losses at contractor facilities or during transportation), range/launch, or
   during the on-orbit phase (e.g. orbital safety mishaps and others). Hazards that are not
   readily apparent at one system level (e.g. personnel hazards for an unmanned space vehicle)
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                    15


   may exist at a different system level. Consult relevant guidance for mishap definitions
   including AFI 91-202 AFSPC SUP 1, AFI 91-204, AFI 91-217, and AFSPCMAN 91-710,
   and seek advice from SMC/SES personnel to aid in identification of hazards and potential
   mishaps. For example an on-orbit phase hazard analysis is required for systems that will
   include an on-orbit asset (See Section 5 for details).
3.2. Pre-Materiel Solution Analysis (Pre-MSA). Systems Directorates/Divisions will consider
system safety input even at the Pre-MSA activities. Systems Directorates may also request input
from SMC/SES for Pre-MSA activities and documentation to validate system safety need and
ensure provision of adequate system safety coverage and strategy. Input may be provided at
acquisition strategy meetings and/or review/comment to generated draft Acquisition Strategy
Document (ASD).
   3.2.1. System Safety input to pre-contract documents to support Pre-MSA efforts such as the
   Request for Proposal (RFP) or Request for Quotation (RFQ) will also be provided by the
   Systems Directorate/Division, Group or Program System Safety Managers (SSMs). System
   Safety input will also be provided by SSMs or equivalent from Staff Directorates or other
   SMC organizations with projects or programs that involve design, development,
   modification, evaluation, demonstration, testing, operation and disposal. Available support
   may be requested from SMC/SES. Typically, studies done for the Pre-MSA phase are
   contracted out and usually are technical capability studies. Identification of current and/or
   future system safety requirements may be required.
   3.2.2. Initial Capabilities Document (ICD) and Materiel Decision Development (MDD).
   The System Safety Manager (SSM) will provide input to the Pre-MSA activities and
   documentation including development of the ICD to support the MDD process.
3.3. Pre-Systems Acquisition (MSA through TD). The SSM must be familiar with the
activities and documentation generated in Pre-Systems Acquisition.
   3.3.1. ICD, AoA and ADM. At the MSA phase, the SSM must be familiar with the ICD,
   Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) and Acquisition Decision Memorandum (ADM) as the
   information provided by these documents is necessary in evaluating and scoping the extent of
   the required system safety program. Other personnel including the PM must facilitate the
   SSMs access to these documents. The ACAT is usually provided by the ADM.
   3.3.2. System Safety Management Plan (SSMP) and Preliminary Hazards List (PHL). At the
   MSA phase, the SSM (in consultation with SMC/SE) generates the draft SSMP. The SSMP
   shall be approved for implementation at MS-A approval or at the beginning of the TD phase.
   If the MSA effort is contracted out, the SSM should ensure that the PHL is a required data
   submittal; however, the System Directorate may opt to generate the PHL. A preliminary
   System Safety Program Plan (SSPP) should also be a data submittal that accompanies the
   PHL.
       3.3.2.1. The SSM must define and develop mishap probability and severity level
       definitions for incorporation in the SSMP and application in the PHL and other system
       safety risk management documentation. The SSM will ensure that the SSMP and the
       SSPP are generated/updated and implemented throughout all phases of the program’s life
       cycle.
16                                                           SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


     3.3.2.2. Requirements from the SSMP must flow down to the SSPP and both documents
     will map the system safety process to the program phases to identify system safety
     activities, risks, issues, and regulatory requirements. They are used to minimize the
     impact to the program of hazards/risks and non-compliances.
  3.3.3. To support the Milestone-A (MS-A) approval process, the SSM will provide system
  safety input to key documents including the following program documentation to be
  submitted at MS-A (updates required at MS-B and MS-C):
     3.3.3.1. Systems Engineering Plan (SEP). The SSM will provide system safety verbiage
     to the SEP ensuring the PM’s or PSM’s commitment to integrate Environment, Safety
     and Occupational Health (ESOH) risk management into the overall systems engineering
     process for all developmental and sustainment engineering activities.
     3.3.3.2. Technology Development Strategy (TDS). The SSM will provide system safety
     verbiage to the TDS document. The TDS document describes at a minimum Commercial
     Off-The-Shelf (COTS) usage, the preliminary acquisition strategy to include cost
     schedule and performance goals for the development phase.
     3.3.3.3. Test and Evaluation Strategy (TES). The SSM will provide system safety
     verbiage to the TES document. Test planning addresses the T&E process of competitive
     prototyping, early demonstration of technologies and the development of an integrated
     test approach.
  3.3.4. Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA). The TD phase begins at MS-A approval and the SSM
  must be familiar with the CCA compliance requirements (statutory)(Ref. DoDI 5000.02
  Enclosure 5). The SSM must also be familiar with and should provide input to the
  documentation required by the CCA. The documentation includes the Initial Capabilities
  Document (ICD), Capabilities Development Document (CDD), Capabilities Production
  Document (CPD), Acquisition Program Baseline (APB) and the Analysis of Alternatives
  (AoA). The effectiveness and extent of the system safety program depend heavily on the
  SSM’s input to the CCA requirements and documentation. Program management’s activities
  place a great deal of emphasis on the CCA requirements.
  3.3.5. At the start of the TD phase, the SSM should have the SSMP approved by the Systems
  Directorate and the SSMP requirements will flow down to the following draft documents for
  support of MS-B approval:
     3.3.5.1. Cost Analysis Requirements Description (CARD). The SSM will provide
     system safety verbiage to the CARD. Identified system safety requirements (to include
     resources, documentation, processes) and activities will provide information for budget
     projection necessary for the program throughout life cycle.
     3.3.5.2. Programmatic ESOH Evaluation (PESHE). The SSM shall ensure that system
     safety requirements are adequately addressed in the PESHE documentation and related
     activities.
         3.3.5.2.1. The SSM will ensure that the SSMP identified requirements and activities
         are reflected and complementarily evaluated in the PESHE process.
     3.3.5.3. Test & Evaluation Management Plan (TEMP). The SSM will provide input to
     the TEMP (required at MS-B and updated at MS-C and Full-Rate Production decision).
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                     17


     The TEMP describes planned developmental, operational and live-fire testing including
     system performance evaluation.
     3.3.5.4. Human Systems Integration Plan (HSIP). The SSM will ensure that the PM’s or
     PSM’s appropriate system safety requirements and activities are integrated in the HSI
     process.
  3.3.6. Other Activities In Pre-Systems Acquisition. As a major part of the System Safety
  process, the SSM will participate in pre-contract activities such as preparing request for
  proposal objectives and source selection criteria as well as post-award surveillance of
  contractor activities including the events depicted in the Integrated Master Plan/Integrated
  Master Schedule (IMP/IMS) and the SSMP and SSPP.
     3.3.6.1. Generally, SMC contracts out major acquisitions and the SSM must be
     intimately familiar with the activities and processes impacting system safety in the
     different acquisition phases including this phase. The acquisition system safety
     requirements, activities and processes should be documented in the SSMP and flowed
     down to the SSPP and IMP/IMS.
     3.3.6.2. Request For Proposal (RFP) Input. In pre-contract activities, the SSM will
     ensure that system safety verbiage and data submittal required in pre-systems acquisition
     are reflected in the RFP package to include contents of the Government Statement of
     Work (GSOW), Contract Data Requirements Lists (CDRLs) and Sections L and M.
         3.3.6.2.1. The SSM will ensure that the CDRLs include the System Safety Program
         Plan (SSPP), Preliminary Hazard List (PHL) and Preliminary Hazard Analysis
         (PHA). If the SSPP and PHL were CDRLs in a previous contract, then updates are
         required in this phase. Generally, system safety CDRLs may or may not be required
         at the Pre-MSA phase. At Pre-MSA, the major activities include studies or projects
         defining low level technology solutions to support the Materiel Development
         Decision (MDD). The SSM must analyze the effort to ensure that system safety is
         not compromised. SMC/SES assistance may be requested to help define the system
         safety requirements. The Pre-MSA activity has not yet entered the formal acquisition
         process. MDD approval begins MSA activities and Pre-Systems Acquisition and
         starts the formal acquisition process.
         3.3.6.2.2. The SSM will provide input to the Offeror’s instruction in the RFP that
         includes how system safety will be addressed in program management and systems
         engineering program execution. Input to the instruction will also require inclusion of
         narratives addressing event-driven tasks and products through the IMP/IMS and
         CWBS. System safety representation on engineering and management review boards
         will be required. The SSM will also be evaluating the Offeror’s process in planning
         for system disposal (both for on-orbit and ground based systems), demilitarization,
         and end-of-life requirements.
         3.3.6.2.3. The PM or PSM should consider assigning the SSM to participate in the
         source selection process. Participation of the SSM is important since he/she should
         be the most knowledgeable person in the Systems Directorate concerning program
         system safety. System safety criteria for the source selection must reflect instructions
         addressed in the RFP.
18                                                         SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


     3.3.6.2.4. In the TD phase, the PM or PSM will ensure that adequate resources be
     provided to support the SSM function. Typically for the TD phase contract, more
     than one contractor are selected and one will be downselected for the EMD phase. In
     this circumstance, the workload for the appointed SSM may be more than doubled.
     3.3.6.2.5. Data Submittal Review/Approval, TD Phase. As part of the contract
     management for system safety in this phase, the SSM will be involved in the review
     and approval of data submittals that include the SSPP, PHL, PHA and draft Space
     Debris Assessment Report (SDAR) to support PDR. The SSM must also get involved
     in the review and approval of other system documentation linked to systems
     engineering (specifications, analyses, trade-off studies, test, etc.), configuration
     management, reliability & maintainability, human systems integration, environmental
     management & engineering and risk management. All these documents influence
     system safety.
     3.3.6.2.6. The SSM will also participate in requirements development and trade
     studies occurring at the TD phase.
     3.3.6.2.7. The SSM will draft the language for contract solicitation that requires the
     Contractor’s system safety effort to comply with the Government’s system safety
     program.
     3.3.6.2.8. In order to implement a comprehensive system safety program, other Pre-
     Systems Acquisition activities will also be accomplished to complement pre-contract
     and contract related activities. These activities include the following:
        3.3.6.2.8.1. System Safety Group (SSG) and System Safety Working Group
        (SSWG). Ideally, early in Pre-Systems Acquisition, the SSM should ensure that
        the charter for the System Safety Group (SSG) is drafted, coordinated, finalized
        and approved for implementation. The SSM should also ensure that appropriate
        membership and activities are cited in the charter. The SSG should assist the
        SSM to provide additional expertise in the establishment of necessary
        requirements, criteria and documentation, especially for complex programs where
        a SSM could be overwhelmed. The SSG and SSWG are further discussed in
        Chapter 4 of this instruction.
        3.3.6.2.8.2. The SSG will provide assistance to the Systems Directorate/Division
        concerning establishment of tools required to perform formal tracking of hazards,
        their closures, and identification/acceptance of residual mishap risk, to include a
        defined and documented risk acceptance authority for the life cycle of the
        program.
     3.3.6.2.9. The PM or PSM will ensure that an initial SSG meeting will take place at
     the early stages of the TD phase. The PM or PSM must ensure that at least one
     annual SSG meeting, at a minimum, will subsequently occur after the initial meeting.
     3.3.6.2.10. In the Pre-Systems Acquisition Phase, the SSM will also participate in the
     technical and management reviews established by both the government and
     contractor. These reviews have attributes (cost, workbreakdown structure, schedules,
     system functions/specifications, risk resolutions, etc.) affecting system safety and
     they include the following:
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                         19


               3.3.6.2.10.1. Initial Technical Review (ITR).
               3.3.6.2.10.2. Alternative Systems Review (ASR) and Technical Readiness
               Assessment (TRA). Both are related to established materiel solutions.
               3.3.6.2.10.3. Integrated Baseline Review (IBR). The IBR is related to the
               Performance Measurement Baseline (PMB) and has direct link to the Work
               Breakdown Structure (WBS).
               3.3.6.2.10.4. Prototype Technical Review (if needed to conduct for risk reduction
               of programs with relatively higher degrees of technical uncertainty).
               3.3.6.2.10.5. System Requirements Review (SRR).
               3.3.6.2.10.6. System Functional Review (SFR).
               3.3.6.2.10.7. Preliminary Design Review (PDR).
   3.3.7. The SSM and PM will also implement a system safety portion of the Acquisition
   Strategy using a SMC/SES developed template. For assistance, the PM or the PSM or the
   SSM may consult with SMC/SES.
3.4. Systems Acquisition (EMD through P&D). The SSM must be familiar with the activities
and documentation generated in Systems Acquisition. As required in every major program
phase, part of the System Safety engineering process is to participate in the pre-contract activities
such as preparing request for proposal objectives and source selection criteria as well as post-
award surveillance of the events depicted in the Integrated Master Plan/Integrated Master
Schedule (IMP/IMS) and the SSMP/SSPP. The SSM must participate in the following activities:
   3.4.1. The SSM will review and update the government program documentation in order to
   re-align system safety objectives for currency and consistency. The SSM will review and
   update key program documents including the following: SSMP, PHL, SEP, PESHE, HSIP,
   TEMP and CARD.
   3.4.2. In support of contracting for the systems acquisition phase, the SSM will develop
   criteria for proposal review/evaluation and participate in the source selection.
   3.4.3. RFP Input For The Systems Acquisition Contract. In pre-contract activities, the SSM
   will ensure that system safety verbiage and data requirements needed at the systems
   acquisition phase are reflected in the RFP package to include the contents of the GSOW,
   CDRLs and Sections L and M.
   3.4.4. The SSM will ensure that the tasks in this phase include updates of the SSPP, PHL
   and PHA and will add new CDRLs that include the Subsystem Hazard Analysis (SSHA),
   System Hazard Analysis (SHA) and the Operating & Support Hazard Analysis (O&SHA).
   Other CDRLs that may be required at this point include the Explosive Hazard Classification
   (EHC) Data, Missile System Prelaunch Safety Package (MSPSP), Flight Data Package
   (FDP), Environmental Analysis Report, Preliminary Test Reports, Engineering Change
   Proposal System Safety Report, Waiver or Deviation System Safety Report, and specification
   updates reflecting complete system design. The SSM must check data submittal
   requirements necessary to be delivered at different geographical test and operational sites.
   Launch vehicle and satellite programs will require Range Safety data packages such as
   MSPSPs and FDPs. Other programs may require Accident Risk Assessment Reports
20                                                            SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


  (ARAR) or Mishap Risk Assessment Reports (MRAR) or Safety Assessment Reports (SAR)
  in addition to the typical hazard analyses data.
     3.4.4.1. The SSM will ensure that required system safety related assessments and data
     submittals supporting operations and end-of-life actions are included as contract data
     deliverables. These data include the Space Debris Assessment Report (SDAR) and End-
     of-Life Plan (EOLP). The SSM will also provide input to the contract to ensure the
     timely delivery of these data. For example, a CDR Draft SDAR is required 45 days
     before CDR.
  3.4.5. The SSM will ensure that the Offeror’s instruction in the RFP include how system
  safety will be addressed in program management and systems engineering program execution
  to include narratives addressing event-driven tasks and products through the IMP/IMS and
  CWBS. System safety representations from engineering and management review boards will
  be depicted.
  3.4.6. The SSM must participate in the source selection process. If the SSM is not allowed
  to participate, the PM or PSM will assume the responsibility. System safety criteria for the
  source selection must reflect instructions addressed in the RFP.
  3.4.7. Data submittal review/approval. The SSM will be involved in the review and
  approval of data submittals. The SSM will be included in the Systems Directorate
  coordination process concerning system safety data comments, disposition and approval.
  3.4.8. In this phase, in order to implement a comprehensive system safety program, other
  Systems Acquisition activities will also be accomplished to complement pre-contract and
  contract related activities. These activities include the following:
     3.4.8.1. Maintaining the SSG and SSWG during the EMD stage. The PM or PSM and
     the SSM will ensure that the charter for the System Safety Group (SSG) is updated and
     approved for implementation.
     3.4.8.2. Continue validating the scope of the system safety program, including
     contractual requirements and deliverable system safety data.
     3.4.8.3. Ensure all appropriate managers consider and document the long-term
     consequences of hazards.
     3.4.8.4. Ensure that an overall safety assessment is provided before each milestone or
     program review.
     3.4.8.5. Review and evaluate engineering change proposals and requests for deviation or
     waivers.
     3.4.8.6. Identify and establish SSWGs as necessary, to work detailed system safety
     issues.
     3.4.8.7. Assigning mishap or hazard-risk indices to each SSG discussion and action item.
  3.4.9. In Systems Acquisition, the SSM will also participate in the technical and
  management reviews established by both the government and contractor. These reviews
  have attributes (cost, workbreakdown structure, schedules, system functions/specifications,
  risk resolutions, etc.) affecting system safety and they should include the following:
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                 21


     3.4.9.1. Integrated Baseline Review (IBR). A joint assessment conducted by the
     government PM or PSM and the contractor to establish the Performance Measurement
     Baseline (PMB).
     3.4.9.2. Flight Readiness Review (FRR).        SMC/SE provides coordination and
     consultation on Space Flight Worthiness Criteria (SFWC) documentation upon request
     and when personnel are available.
     3.4.9.3. Test Readiness Review (TRR). The SSM will participate in the assessment of
     test objectives, test methods and procedures, scope of tests, and safety to confirm that
     required test resources have been properly identified and coordinated to support planned
     tests. The TRR is a multi-disciplined technical review designed to ensure that the
     subsystem or system under review is ready to proceed into formal test.
     3.4.9.4. Critical Design Review (CDR). The SSM must participate in the CDR process
     to ensure that system safety interests have been considered in the establishment of
     product baselines to satisfy Capability Development Document requirements within
     allocated budget and schedule.
        3.4.9.4.1. The SSM must ensure at the CDR that the process evaluates the proposed
        baseline ("Build To" documentation) to determine if system safety design have been
        integrated in the documentation (Initial Product Baseline, including Item Detail
        Specifications, Material Specifications, Process Specifications) in a satisfactory
        manner to start initial manufacturing.
        3.4.9.4.2. At CDR or immediately prior to CDR, the SSM must ensure that all system
        safety technical risks will be reduced to acceptable levels and that the remaining
        program execution risk resulting from resource or schedule shortfalls will be
        addressed quickly. Use of formal Engineering Change Proposals (ECPs) will likely
        be needed to resolve system safety deficiencies after CDR; thus, requiring more
        coordination that may impact cost and schedule.
     3.4.9.5. System Verification Review (SVR). The SSM will participate in the SVR to
     ensure that system safety risks are acceptable for the system to proceed into Low-Rate
     Initial Production and Full-Rate production. The SVR establishes and verifies final
     product performance and provides input to the Capability Production Document (CPD).
     3.4.9.6. Functional Configuration Audit (FCA). The SSM should participate in the FCA,
     a formal examination of the “as tested” characteristics of the configuration items
     (hardware and software) with the objective of verifying that actual performance complies
     with identified and documented system safety design and interface requirements. A
     successful FCA typically demonstrates that the EMD product is sufficiently mature for
     entrance into Low-Rate Initial Production.
     3.4.9.7. Production Readiness Review (PRR). The SSM should participate in the PRR to
     ensure that system safety design requirements have been adequately incorporated for
     production and if the prime contractor and major subcontractors have accomplished
     adequate system safety in production planning without incurring unacceptable risks.
 22                                                              SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


      3.4.9.8. The SSM will implement a system safety acquisition strategy using a SMC/SES
      developed template. For assistance, the PM or PSM or the SSM shall consult with
      SMC/SES.
      3.4.9.9. Another major activity in Systems Acquisition involves the Production and
      Deployment (P&D) phase. In the P&D phase, the SSM should participate in the
      Operational Test Readiness Review (OTRR) to ensure that system safety risk issues have
      been resolved so the system can proceed into initial OT&E with high probability of
      success to prove that the system is effective and suitable for service introduction.
          3.4.9.9.1. Also, another activity in the P&D phase that the SSM should participate in
          is the Physical Configuration Audit (PCA). Since the PCA examines the actual
          configuration of an item being produced, the SSM should verify that the related
          system safety design documentation matches the system safety items (system,
          subsystem, components, software, and hardware) as specified in the contract. The
          SSM should confirm that adequate and approved system safety design are inherent,
          adequately planned, tracked, and controlled in the manufacturing process, quality
          control system, measurement and test equipment/process, training and operations.
          The SSM will ensure that the inherent/designed-in system safety items will pass and
          withstand test and operational stresses. Additionally, fail-safe system attributes must
          work.
      3.4.9.10. The SSM must also ensure that identified system safety risks are being
      processed and being elevated to the appropriate risk review boards and system
      engineering review boards.
3.5. Sustainment (O&S Phase). In the Operations and Support (O&S) phase, the SSM will
perform continuous surveillance on the existing system safety program. The SSM will
implement in-service management metrics to validate the robustness of the system safety
program or to reveal system safety program deficiencies or weaknesses. Sustainment and
disposal work efforts make up the Operations and Support phase which is the final phase and
extends throughout the useful life of the system.
   3.5.1. System Safety Metrics. The SSM will implement system safety metrics that reveal
   system safety program information and status ensuring that:
      3.5.1.1. The defined system safety management process identifies and prioritizes all
      appropriate system safety issues.
      3.5.1.2. The defined system safety management process identifies the appropriate
      technical resources to staff all appropriate issues and that the resources are available and
      adequate for mitigations.
      3.5.1.3. The defined system safety management process supports the technical resources
      to accomplish system safety action item resolution.
   3.5.2. In the O&S phase, the SSG (utilizing accumulated system safety data from operational
   experience) should assist the Systems Directorate in evaluating results of failure analyses and
   mishap investigations. The SSM should participate in deficiency review and resolution
   activities.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                     23


     3.5.2.1. The SSM will update hazard analyses to reflect changes in risk assessments, and
     to identify any new hazards, based on actual experience with the system and ensure that
     safety implications of the changes are considered in all configuration control
     management actions.
     3.5.2.2. The SSM will make recommendations to updates of system safety
     documentation, such as design handbooks, military standards and specifications, to
     reflect safety “lessons learned.” The SSM should share the information at the SSG and
     SMC System Safety Manager’s Council meetings.
     3.5.2.3. The SSM should document hazardous conditions and system deficiencies for
     development of follow-on requirements for modifications and new systems.
     3.5.2.4. The SSM will evaluate proposed and new operating and maintenance
     procedures, or changes, to ensure that procedures, warnings, and cautions are adequate
     and inherent safety is not degraded.
     3.5.2.5. The SSM must ensure that safety reviews are conducted periodically or in
     response to the user’s current safety problems to identify the scope and frequency of the
     problem and possible solutions.
  3.5.3. Demilitarization and Disposal. When the system reaches the end of its useful life, the
  system will be demilitarized and disposed of in accordance with all legal and regulatory
  requirements and policy relating to safety of personnel, property, the public and the
  environment. System safety activities will shift to concerns of demilitarization, de-arming,
  and disposal risks.
     3.5.3.1. SSG meetings will provide a focal point for bringing together diverse expertise
     to address demilitarization and disposal issues. In preparation, the SSM will review and
     update disposal plans and analyses generated at the early stages of the system life cycle to
     include development and production. Initial termination concepts must be updated with
     current applicable laws and policy.
         3.5.3.1.1. The SSM will apply knowledge obtained from operations, maintenance,
         mishaps, high accident potentials (HAPs) and anomalies and recommended
         mitigations.
     3.5.3.2. The following are some specific end-of-life system safety activities that the SSM
     should perform:
         3.5.3.2.1. Establish the limits of damage or injury capability of a system or
         subsystem.
         3.5.3.2.2. Identify the special procedures and equipment needed for handling and
         disposal. Prepare instructions for implementing the plan.
         3.5.3.2.3. Determine whether or not the material or its construction can be safely
         reused.
         3.5.3.2.4. Identify the characteristics and amounts of hazardous materials present in
         the system.
         3.5.3.2.5. Determine the current service requirements for destruction.
24                                                          SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


     3.5.3.2.6. Determine whether societal impacts will occur in civilian areas.
     3.5.3.2.7. Determine the availability of disposal sites for hazardous materials.
     3.5.3.2.8. Ensure that current local, state, and federal laws are applied to disposal and
     demilitarization efforts.
     3.5.3.2.9. Determine the adequateness of the End-of-Life Plan (EOLP) IAW AFI 91-
     217 requirements.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                      25


                                         Chapter 4

                          SYSTEM SAFETY KEY FUNCTIONS

4.1. System Safety Functions. Chapter 3 discussed the involvement of system safety
throughout the life cycle of a system. This section outlines organization of system safety
objectives into three functional groups applied throughout system life cycle. They are
summarized in the table below:

Table 4.1. System Safety Functional Groups.
                               Task areas: planning, control, risk management and
 Management                    information management. Primarily involved with
                               organization, personnel, risk management, task planning,
                               scheduling, authorization, communication and monitoring.

                               Task areas: requirements, analysis and design. Primarily
 Engineering                   involved in policy interpretation for design guidance, hazard
                               identification & analysis, and mishap risk
                               mitigation/verification.

                               Task areas: testing, fielding, sustainment, operational use and
 Operations and Testing        maintenance. System safety tasks involved in operations and
                               testing include the test safety review board process, space
                               flight worthiness criteria, and deficiency reporting and
                               corrective actions.

4.2. System Safety Management and Planning. System safety program management and
plans will be documented in the SSMP and augmented by specific sections in the SEP, TEMP,
HSIP, PESHE, CARD, WBS and the RFP. In most if not all cases, the SSM shall generate the
required input to all these documents. The SSMP and the PESHE are the two main documents
that provide a roadmap on how to conduct and validate the system safety program.
   4.2.1. System Safety Management Plan (SSMP). The SSMP will contain the Systems
   Directorate’s or Division’s system safety management requirements and tasks. The SSMP
   will be prepared by the Systems Directorate’s SSM and approved (signed) by the Systems
   Director after the coordination (signed) with the Director of Safety (SMC/SE). An approved
   copy will be provided to SMC/SE for evaluation and use for the Systems Directorate system
   safety program metrics. The initial release of the SSMP will authorize the initial set of
   government system safety tasks. (See Table A2.2 for a SSMP outline)
      4.2.1.1. The SSM must be given the appropriate authority, resources and responsibility to
      implement the SSMP. Each SSMP will, as a minimum:
          4.2.1.1.1. Identify contractor and government roles, responsibilities and personnel
          qualifications which can be broken down further as follows:
               4.2.1.1.1.1. Organizational structure and responsibilities (reporting chain,
               decision making, resource allocations, etc.).
26                                                          SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


        4.2.1.1.1.2. Personnel qualifications (see Table 4.2 of this SMCI).
        4.2.1.1.1.3. Manpower authorizations by skill types, need dates and required
        training.
        4.2.1.1.1.4. Resource loading including manning and funding for the life cycle.
        4.2.1.1.1.5. Authority and accountability for implementing tasks and risk
        decisions.
     4.2.1.1.2. Identify system safety critical design and operations that include:
        4.2.1.1.2.1. Requirements       and    criteria    for     status   assessment    of
        controls/mitigations.
     4.2.1.1.3. Identify safety milestones and key documentation consisting of:
        4.2.1.1.3.1. Requirements for schedule control and reporting.
        4.2.1.1.3.2. Requirements and criteria for beginning and ending milestones for
        defined safety critical system safety tasks.
        4.2.1.1.3.3. Required management and technical reviews describing:
            4.2.1.1.3.3.1. Roles of Integrated Product Teams (IPT) during reviews.
            4.2.1.1.3.3.2. System safety integration in program management and systems
            engineering.
            4.2.1.1.3.3.3. Entry and exit criteria. Entry criteria (1) defines the minimum
            system safety essential items necessary to enter into a design review, (2)
            defines the system safety design baseline and provide the system safety
            framework for the design review, and (3) covers system safety items specified
            in the Statement of Work, the Specification, and the requisite system safety
            CDRL items describing design. Exit criteria (1) defines the minimum system
            safety essential items necessary to successfully complete a design review and
            proceed into the next phase and also (2) include system safety items specified
            in the Statement of Work, the Specification, and the requisite system safety
            CDRL items describing the design.
     4.2.1.1.4. Describe liability and indemnification strategy.
     4.2.1.1.5. Describe the integration of both government and contractor(s) system
     safety processes to form a single system safety program including:
        4.2.1.1.5.1. How the SSMP requirements flow down to the contractor system
        safety program.
        4.2.1.1.5.2. Describing the relationships and interfaces with related efforts
        inherent in contractor system safety programs and plans.
     4.2.1.1.6. Describe the identified contractual system safety and health requirements.
     4.2.1.1.7. Describe the defined Contractor’s role and scope of involvement in mishap
     investigation.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                    27


  4.2.2. Programmatic Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Evaluation (PESHE).
  The system safety sections of the PESHE will complement and validate the SSMP.
     4.2.2.1. In the PESHE, the PM or PSM will validate that appropriate HSI and ESOH
     efforts are integrated across disciplines and into systems engineering to determine system
     design characteristics that can minimize the risks to the system and personnel and
     enhance system safety and job performance and productivity of personnel. The PM or
     PSM will also validate planning for the system’s demilitarization and safe disposal.
     4.2.2.2. The PESHE will validate, as a minimum, the existence and effectiveness of the
     following safety and health requirements:
         4.2.2.2.1. A strategy for integrating Environment Safety and Occupational Health
         (ESOH), which includes system safety, Operations Safety and Health, Operational
         Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E), and Explosive Safety.
         4.2.2.2.2. The ESOH responsibilities for implementing this strategy.
         4.2.2.2.3. A process to identify ESOH hazards to assess risks, to mitigate or avoid
         those risks, to accept the residual risk, and to assess the effectiveness of the
         mitigations.
         4.2.2.2.4. A process to identify and status ESOH risks (including the identification of
         hazardous materials used in the system and the plan for their
         demilitarization/disposal).
  4.2.3. The system safety program will also include the necessary planning, coordinating, and
  engineering analysis to:
     4.2.3.1. Identify the safety-critical functions of the system and establish a protocol of
     analysis, design, test, and verification & validation for those functions.
     4.2.3.2. Tailor and communicate generic or initial safety-related requirements or
     constraints to the system and software designers as early in the life cycle phase as
     possible.
     4.2.3.3. Identify, document and track system and subsystem-level hazards.
     4.2.3.4. Identify the system-level effects of each identified hazard.
     4.2.3.5. Categorize each identified hazard in terms of severity and probability of
     occurrence (specify qualification or quantification of likelihood).
     4.2.3.6. Conduct in-depth analysis to identify each failure pathway and associated causal
     factors.
         4.2.3.6.1. Analysis will be conducted to the functional depth necessary to identify
         logical, practical and cost-effective mitigation techniques and requirements for each
         failure pathway initiator (causal factor).
         4.2.3.6.2. Analysis will also consider all hardware, software, and human factor
         interfaces as potential contributors.
     4.2.3.7. Derive safety-specific hazard mitigation requirements to eliminate or reduce the
     likelihood of each causal factor.
28                                                             SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


     4.2.3.8. Provide engineering evidence (through appropriate inspection, analysis, and test)
     that each mitigation safety requirement is implemented within the design and the system
     functions as required, in order to meet safety goals and objectives.
     4.2.3.9. Conduct a safety assessment of all residual safety risk after all design,
     implementation, and test activities are complete.
     4.2.3.10. Conduct a safety impact analysis on all Software Change Notices (SCN) or
     ECP for engineering baselines under configuration management.
     4.2.3.11. Submit for approval to the certifying authority, all waivers and/or deviations
     where the system does not meet the safety requirements or the certification criteria.
     4.2.3.12. Submit for approval to the acquiring authority an integrated system safety
     schedule that supports the program’s engineering and programmatic milestones.
  4.2.4. System Safety Management Structure, Elements and Functions. System Safety will be
  the responsibility of the Systems Director or Program Manager (PM) or Product Support
  Manager (PSM). The Government System Safety Manager (SSM) will manage the system
  safety effort on his/her behalf, and as such is considered a “direct report” to the Systems
  Director or PM or PSM while performing this function. In the absence of a SSM,
  responsibilities roll up to the Systems Director or PM or PSM.
     4.2.4.1. The Systems Director or PM or PSM will appoint his/her SSM in writing, in an
     appointment letter addressed to SMC/SE, requiring the concurrence of the SMC Director
     of Safety. Adequate data will be attached to assure the qualifications of the SSM. A
     template of the appointment letter and qualifications will be provided upon request.
         4.2.4.1.1. Qualification requirements for a SSM are listed in Table 4.2. SMC/SES
         can assist in the creation of any waiver packages for the SSM appointment.
         4.2.4.1.2. SMC/SE concurrence may be withheld or withdrawn due to reasons such
         as unmet qualification requirements, failure to perform duties, or inappropriate
         performance of duties (e.g. falsification of documents), in which case a different
         person must be assigned.
         4.2.4.1.3. A SSM serving part time, assisting the primary SSM or in a geographically
         separate location sometimes referred to as a System Safety Officer (SSO) must meet
         the same qualification requirements.
         4.2.4.1.4. There must be at least one responsible full time SSM per Systems
         Directorate, Program Office, Systems Division, or equivalent.
     4.2.4.2. The system safety management function will be responsible for identifying
     safety information and reporting/coordinating the information within the program office
     (systems engineering, quality, reliability, configuration management, procurement, etc.).
     The SSM will coordinate with SMC/SES and contractors’ safety organizations. This
     function ensures planning and implementation efforts satisfy program requirements.
     4.2.4.3. The PM or PSM will be responsible for ensuring that the System Safety function
     within his/her organization is properly staffed and resourced. Should events warrant,
     failure to do so may be reported as a Program risk to the Program Executive Officer
     (PEO).
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                    29


     4.2.4.4. The SSM’s Roles and Responsibilities. The SSM will be responsible for day-to-
     day management of the System Safety Program on behalf of the Systems Director or PM
     or PSM.
        4.2.4.4.1. The PM or PSM and the SSM will ensure that identified mishap risks are
        documented, appropriately categorized in accordance with established and approved
        mishap risk category criteria and reported to the defined authority levels for action.
        The defined authority levels are the Service Acquisition Executive (SAE) for High,
        the Program Executive Officer (PEO) for Serious and the Program Manager (PM) or
        Product Support Manager (PSM) for Medium Mishap Risk Categories. Mishap Risk
        Categories considered “Low” will be managed “as directed.” Mishap Risk
        Categorization and authority levels for actions are further defined in Tables A2.7,
        A2.8, A2.9 and A2.10 of this SMCI.
        4.2.4.4.2. The scope of the SSM’s responsibility will include coordination of
        government (Systems Directorate/Division, Staff, and Range) activities, and oversight
        of contractor, sub-contractor, and vendor system safety efforts, to include flow down
        of safety requirements from the government to the contractor, subcontractor, and
        vendor safety organizations and individuals throughout the lifetime of the system.
        4.2.4.4.3. The SSM will also be responsible for providing inputs for the staffing and
        financial budgets required to implement the system safety program. Examples of
        budgetary sub-elements are:
            4.2.4.4.3.1. Necessary system      safety   manpower      support   (Government,
            Aerospace, SETA contractor).
            4.2.4.4.3.2. Any required system safety training.
            4.2.4.4.3.3. TDY attendance (Systems Directorate and invited guests) at any
            reviews, and meetings requiring system safety participation.
            4.2.4.4.3.4. Planning estimates of the Prime Contractor’s system safety costs.
        4.2.4.4.4. The SSM will interface with other Systems Directorate’s internal
        organizations on other aspects of program management, systems engineering,
        contracts, including configuration management, quality assurance, test & evaluation,
        and reliability & maintainability to ensure that system safety engineering and policy
        requirements are included in all applicable Systems Directorate activities.
        4.2.4.4.5. The SSM will interface with other SMC organizations including SMC/SE,
        and other Systems Directorate SSMs or SSOs to identify common SMC system safety
        issues and to formulate system safety policy to resolve these issues.
        4.2.4.4.6. The SSM will also interface with organizations outside of SMC to make
        system safety engineering policy facilitates tailoring of Range requirements, and to
        help ensure the contractor meets these requirements.
        4.2.4.4.7. The SSM will coordinate system safety activities such that contractor and
        government personnel will all typically participate in a single team effort for systems
        engineering, systems safety engineering and mishap risk control and acceptance.
            4.2.4.4.7.1. Typical roles of prime contractors include performance of technical
 30                                                                 SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


               analyses, and day-to-day participation in design and development efforts.
               4.2.4.4.7.2. Typical roles of government, SETA and FFRDC personnel include
               requirements development and review and verification of a contractor’s plans
               technical analyses and reports.
        4.2.4.5. Systems Directorate personnel will be properly trained on the Systems
        Directorate’s unique processes and tools. The Systems Director or PM or PSM will
        ensure that his/her personnel have access to processes and tools (e.g. Hazard Log
        Database) needed to perform the work.
        4.2.4.6. SMC/SE assists system safety personnel in obtaining appropriate training.
        4.2.4.7. Individuals assigned system safety responsibilities in the Systems Directorate
        (e.g. both government and contractor) must have the appropriate qualifications (See
        Table 4.2) to properly perform their system safety functions. The Systems Directorate’s
        system safety staff will ensure that similar requirements are flowed down to the
        product/system contractor for implementation. The acquisition certification requirement
        may not apply for product/system contractor key System Safety personnel but is
        desirable.
        4.2.4.8. Qualifications for key system safety personnel (including SSMs, SSOs and
        SSEs) must include adequate education and training, experience and proven ability
        (through means such as certification) in order for each key person to fulfill his or her role.

Table 4.2. Minimum Qualifications For Government And Contractor Key System Safety
Personnel*

 Program Complexity
                          Education                Experience               Certification
 and hazard potential

                                                                            Desired: CSP# or
                          BS in Engineering,
                                                                            Professional
                          Physical Science,        Four years in system
 High                                                                       Engineer
                          plus training in         safety
                                                                            Required: APDP
                          System Safety++
                                                                            Level 1 or equivalent

                                                                            Enhancement: CSP
                          Bachelor’s Degree        Two years in system      or Professional
 Moderate                 plus training in         safety or related        Engineer.
                          System Safety            discipline               Required: APDP
                                                                            Level 1 or equivalent

                          High School
                                                                            Required: APDP
                          Diploma plus             Four years in system
 Low                                                                        Level 1 or equivalent
                          training in system       safety
                          safety
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                            31



* NOTE: Application for Waivers will be processed by the SMC Chief of System Safety
(SMC/SES). Applications must include justification (e.g, lack of personnel, oversight by qualified
person) and required developmental path to qualification for the applicant. Contact SMC/SES for
examples.

@ Most SMC programs are of high complexity and hazard potential. All programs will be classified
“High” unless justification is approved by the SMC Chief of System Safety (SMC/SES).

 # CSP – Certified Safety Professional in System Safety Aspects.

 ++ System Safety Training for government key system safety personnel (including at least one
responsible full time System Safety Manager or System Safety Engineer per Systems Directorate,
Systems Division, or equivalents) must include the USAF System Safety Analysis Course and System
Safety Management course or equivalents, relevant Space Safety and Explosives/Weapons Safety
courses, plus other initial and update training provided through SMC/SE.

Acquisition Professional Development Program (APDP) Level Certification required for Government
Personnel; equivalent required for FFRDC, SETA Contractors, and other available certification
equivalence approved by SMC/SES.

       4.2.4.9. Contractual Functions. The SSM will work with contract and data management
       organizations to place MIL-STD-882 on contract and to apply the necessary tasks,
       CDRLs, and other requirements to define an appropriate and adequate Systems
       Directorate system safety program. This SMCI is intended to enable the user to apply the
       necessary standards or versions of standards to comply with multiple higher-level
       instructions, using the best available tools for the program while maintaining clear
       compliance with current methodologies. This may require using tasks and other tools of
       MIL-STD-882C along with language referencing the latest MIL-STD-882C. AFI 91-
       202_AFSPCSUP1_I instructs PMs or PSMs to implement and integrate a government
       System Safety Management Plan with their contractor’s MIL-STD-882C-Tailored
       System Safety Program. DoDI 5000.02 also states that, “The PM or PSM shall use the
       methodology in MIL-STD-882D, “DoD Standard Practice for System Safety.” MIL-
       STD-882C is linked with older versions of DIDs than the ones currently listed on DOD
       websites, while MIL-STD-882D is not associated with any DIDs. This SMCI applies the
       updated DIDs and adopts the requirements from both MIL-STDs-882C & D for tailoring
       the needed Systems Directorate system safety program. Provided manpower support is
       available, assistance can be requested from SMC/SES in establishing which MIL-STD-
       882 requirements and DIDs are suitable for application to a specific program. It should
       be noted that other System Safety standards such as the industry standard ANSI/GEIA
       0010 now exist; SMC/SES personnel can advise on appropriate application of these
       standards.
           4.2.4.9.1. MIL-STD-882C/D Tailoring and Associated CDRLs and DIDs. MIL-
           STD-882C/D will be tailored by the SSM specific for the system’s system safety
           program. MIL-STD-882C/D describes the management of all contractor system
           safety programs for the Department of Defense. Generally, MIL-STD-882C/D
           requires the contractor to establish and implement a system safety management
           system with system safety objectives and approaches consistent with mission
32                                                            SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


        requirements with desired results in a timely and cost effective manner. Desired data
        submittals are also obtained by the application of a data management process in
        which information is provided in certain configuration/format as depicted and
        delineated by applicable DIDs. MIL-STD-882C/D discusses the system safety tasks;
        however, the entire document is not used for every system safety program. Applying
        the entire document will generally not be prudent because some requirements may not
        be needed for the specific system. Some requirements may be too excessive and will
        just add unwanted costs. At other times requirements language that is additional or
        different from the standard may be best for a specific program. Therefore, the authors
        of the document strongly recommend to tailor for specific programs.
        4.2.4.9.2. Tailoring MIL-STD-882C/D Tasks. The SSM will tailor the MIL-STD-
        882C/D Tasks to better accommodate the program being supported. Tailoring allows
        for a system safety process that is customized to the specific program, by which
        mission success, timely schedule and cost savings can be realized.
            4.2.4.9.2.1. The Systems Director will be responsible in ensuring that funding is
            made available in order to perform those identified tasks. The sections of tasks
            described by MIL-STD-882C/D include program management and control, design
            and integration, design evaluation, and compliance verification.
            4.2.4.9.2.2. The System Safety section of the Government Statement of Work
            included in the RFP is where the tailored MIL-STD-882C/D task list should be
            located.
        4.2.4.9.3. The SSM will ensure that the Contractor will develop and implement a
        System Safety Program Plan (SSPP), per the MIL-STD-882C/D (Tailored), that
        clearly states how their System Safety Program will be conducted, to include hazard
        analysis for the system throughout its lifetime, addressing both hardware and software
        system safety.
     4.2.4.10. Data Item Description (DID) and Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL).
     The SSM will select, tailor and apply the required DIDs in order to obtain the necessary
     data submittals. Execution of system safety tasks by the Contractor is typically
     demonstrated by the generation of contract deliverables.              The Contract Data
     Requirements List (CDRL) is a list of authorized data requirements for a specific
     procurement that forms a part of the contract. It is comprised of either a single DD Form
     1423, or a series of DD Forms 1423 (individual CDRL forms) containing data
     requirements and delivery information. The CDRL is the standard format for identifying
     potential data requirements in a solicitation, and deliverable data requirements in a
     contract. System safety CDRLs linked directly to MIL-STD-882C tasks include but not
     limited to DI-SAFT-80100A (SSPP), DI-SAFT-80101A (System Safety Hazard Analysis
     Report), DI-SAFT-80102A (SAR), DI-SAFT-80103A (ECPSSR), DI-SAFT-80104A
     (Waiver/Deviation SSR), DI-SAFT-80105A (SSPPR), DI-SAFT-80106A (HHAR). DID
     DI-SAFT-80100A became DI-SAFT-81626 when a DID for SSPP was required for use
     with MIL-STD-882D. The DIDs with the “A” suffix were numbered with “B” suffix in
     the late 1990s when they were updated for use with later versions of MIL-STD-882. The
     “B” DIDs eliminated reference to the System Safety Program Plan DID; during this
     period a policy (since abandoned) existed that SSPPs and other plans could not be
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                    33


     obtained as part of a contract. (The user of “B” DIDs should take care not to
     inadvertently leave out reference to a desired SSPP due to the nature of these DIDs).
     DIDs describe the data content and format. The most common DIDs used in system
     safety are described below:
        4.2.4.10.1. DI-SAFT-80100A System Safety Program Plan (SSPP). The “A” revision
        of this DID is linked with MIL-STD-882C and this plan details the tasks and
        activities of system safety management and system safety engineering required to
        identify, evaluate, and eliminate or control hazards throughout the system lifecycle.
        The purpose of this plan is to provide a basis of understanding between the contractor
        and the managing activity to ensure that adequate consideration is given to safety
        during all life cycle phases of the program and to establish a formal, disciplined
        program to achieve the system safety objectives.
        4.2.4.10.2. DI-SAFT-81626 System Safety Program Plan (SSPP). This DID was
        written to re-establish a DID requiring the SSPP, and is widely used for this purpose
        after the establishment of MIL-STD-882D. As in the previous paragraph, this plan
        details the tasks and activities of system safety management and system safety
        engineering required to identify, evaluate, and eliminate or control hazards
        throughout the system lifecycle. The purpose of this plan is to provide a basis of
        understanding between the contractor and the managing activity to ensure that
        adequate consideration is given to safety during all life cycle phases of the program
        and to establish a formal, disciplined program to achieve the system safety objectives.
        The main difference between DI-SAFT-80100A and DI-SAFT-81626 is that DI-
        SAFT-81626 allows the use of contractor data submittal format. DI-SAFT-81626
        language also makes reference to “craft” (e.g. Navy vessels) and is written in the
        context of modification to an existing system. Organizations tailoring this DID need
        to take care that the tailoring fits the format requirements and the nature and phase of
        the system and program it’s being tailored for.
        4.2.4.10.3. DI-SAFT-81300/A Mishap Risk Assessment Report (MRAR). This Data
        Item report describes format and content preparation instructions for data resulting
        from the work tasks described in MIL-STD-882C Tasks 201 Preliminary Hazard List;
        202 – Preliminary Hazard Analysis; 203 - Safety Requirements/ Criteria Analysis;
        204 – Subsystem Hazard Analysis; 205 - System Hazard Analysis; 206 - Operating
        and Support Hazard Analysis; 207 – Health Hazard Analysis; 301 - Safety
        Assessment; 302 – Test and Evaluation Safety; 303 – Safety Review of Engineering
        Change Proposals, Specification Change Notices, Software Problem Reports, and
        Request for Waiver/ Deviation; 401 – Safety Verification; 402 – Safety Compliance
        Assessment; 403 – Explosive Hazard Classification and Characteristics Data. The
        version without letter suffix is listed in MIL-STD-882C as associated with that
        standard. The data resulting from these tasks and compiled into the MRAR are
        applicable to the system design, test, processing and operations within a contract.
            4.2.4.10.3.1. For programs involved with Range Safety approval process, a
            MSPSP may be the preferred data to be submitted to the Range(s) over the
            MRAR. The MRAR could then be formatted to have two parts; Part 1 will be the
            MSPSP and Part 2 will be the rest of the required contents for the MRAR. The
            MSPSP will then be submitted to the Range(s), but, both Part 1 and Part 2 will
34                                                            SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


           still be required to be submitted to the Systems Directorate.
        4.2.4.10.4. DI-SAFT-80102B Safety Assessment Report (SAR). This Data Item report
        is a comprehensive evaluation of the safety risks being assumed prior to test or
        operation of the system or at contract completion. It identifies all safety features of
        the system, design, and procedural hazards that may be present in the system being
        acquired, and specific procedural controls and precautions that should be followed.
        4.2.4.10.5. DI-SAFT-80101B System Safety Hazard Analysis Report (SSHAR). This
        Data Item report documents hazard analyses that are used to systematically identify
        and evaluate hazards both real and potential, for their elimination or control.
        4.2.4.10.6. DI-SAFT-80103B Engineering Change Proposal System Safety Report
        (ECPSSR). This Data Item report is used to summarize results of analyses, tests and
        tradeoff studies conducted on proposed engineering design changes throughout the
        system life cycle.
        4.2.4.10.7. DI-SAFT-80104B Waiver or deviation System Safety Report (WDSSR).
        This Data Item report summarizes the results of analysis, test, and tradeoff studies as
        they relate to a request for waiver/ deviation. It will identify the risk assessment,
        mishap potential, and justification associated with results of each waiver or deviation
        request received throughout the system life cycle.
        4.2.4.10.8. DI-SAFT-80105B System Safety Program Progress Report (SSPPR).
        This Data Item can be used to cover periodic reviews of safety activities and to
        monitor progress of contractor system safety efforts.
        4.2.4.10.9. DI-SAFT-80106B Health Hazard Assessment Report (HHAR). These
        HHAR Data Items are used to systematically identify and evaluate health hazards,
        evaluate proposed hazardous materials, and propose measures to eliminate or control
        these hazards through engineering design changes or protective measures to reduce
        the risk to an acceptable level.
        4.2.4.10.10. DI-SAFT-80931B Explosive Ordnance Disposal Data. This Data Item is
        used by the Naval Explosive Ordnance Disposal Technology Center
        (NAVEODTECHCEN) to develop, test, validate and publish joint service non-
        nuclear explosive ordnance disposal (EOD) 60 series technical orders. EOD
        technicians will use this data in support of testing, development and operational
        evaluation of new or modified weapon systems, ordnance items and aerospace
        systems.
        4.2.4.10.11. DI-SAFT-81299B Explosive Hazard Classification Data. The purpose
        of this Data Item is to obtain the necessary information for assigning hazard
        classification, such as hazard class/ division, storage compatibility group, and
        Department of Transportation (DOT) marking. These classifications establish the
        procedures for the storage and transportation of the item for all user elements.
     4.2.4.11. As a quick reference for programs applying MIL-STD-882C, the relationship
     between MIL-STD-882C Tasks and the DIDs that support them can be summarized in
     Table A2.17 (MIL-STD-882C Tasks and Data Item Descriptions Matrix) in Attachment
     2.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                  35


     4.2.4.12. A matrix showing how each of the DIDs supports the various MIL-STD-882C
     tasks is also located in Table A2.16.
     4.2.4.13. Based on the level of system safety to be performed, there are basically two
     types of system safety programs defined at SMC. These are the large program (which is
     applicable to satellites and launch vehicles), and the small program (which is applicable
     to user segment items and some ground segments). For each type, a template tailoring
     for both tasks and DIDs have been constructed by SMC/SE and can be found in Tables
     A2.12 and A2.13.
     4.2.4.14. Compliance and Reference Documents. The SSM must ensure that the right
     compliance or reference document is cited for the appropriate requirement. For example,
     MIL-STD-882D is a management type system safety compliance document. It describes
     “how to” manage a system safety program. On the other hand, MIL-HdBk-454B defines
     the criteria a component, subsystem and/or a system should be designed to in order to
     achieve the required performance attribute that promotes safety or make the system fail-
     safe. Also, if Air Force personnel are involved in the construction, operation,
     maintenance and disposal activities, apply Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
     (AFOSH) Standards appropriate for the encountered hazards. For example, apply
     AFOSH 91-501 (Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard) for general
     industry type activity and apply AFOSH STD 48-9 (Radio Frequency Radiation Safety
     Program) when prevention of possible harmful effects of radio frequency (RF) exposure
     is required. Please note, SMC/EN maintains the latest list of Specifications and
     Standards for application to SMC Requests for Proposal and contracts in consultation
     with SMC/SE; consult the list for potential updates. In accordance with the SMC
     Specifications and Standards List, the following compliance and reference documents
     may be included as part of the Request for Proposal:
        4.2.4.14.1. Compliance:
            4.2.4.14.1.1. MIL-STD-882C, “System Safety Program Requirements (Tailored),
            19 January 1993.
            4.2.4.14.1.2. MIL-STD-882D, “Standard Practice For System Safety”, (Tailored)
            10 February 2000.
            4.2.4.14.1.3. AFSPCMAN        91-710,   “Range    Safety   User    Requirements”
            (Tailored), 01 July 2004.
            4.2.4.14.1.4. MIL-STD-1472F, “Human Engineering” (Tailored), 23 August
            1999.
            4.2.4.14.1.5. MIL-STD-1576, “Electroexplosive Subsystem Safety Requirements
            and Test Methods For Space Systems” (Tailored), 31 July 1984 (Notice of
            Validation, 04 September 1992).
            4.2.4.14.1.6. MIL-STD-1522A, “Standard General Requirements For Safe
            Design and Operation of Pressurized Missile and Space Systems” (Tailored), 28
            May 1984 (Notice of Validation, 04 September 1992).
        4.2.4.14.2. References:
            4.2.4.14.2.1. AFI 91-202_AFSPCSUP1_I, 01June 2005; (Certified current 30 Jul
36                                                            SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


            2007) Chapter 9, System Safety, and Chapter 11, Space Safety.
            4.2.4.14.2.2. AFI 91-204_AFSPCSUP_I, 02 January 2007.
            4.2.4.14.2.3. AFI 91-217, Space Safety and Mishap Prevention Program, 18
            February 2010.
            4.2.4.14.2.4. AFMAN 91-222, Space Safety Investigations And Reports, 09
            August 2005.
               4.2.4.14.2.4.1. AFMAN 91-222_AFSPCSUP_I, Space Safety Investigations
               And Reports, 02 January 2007.
            4.2.4.14.2.5. AFOSH STD 91-50, Communications Cable, Antenna and
            Communications-Electronic (C-E) Systems, 01 August 1998.
            4.2.4.14.2.6. AFOSH STD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety
            Standard, 07 July 2004.
            4.2.4.14.2.7. MIL-HDBK-454B, General Guidelines For Electronic Equipment,
            15 April 2007.
            4.2.4.14.2.8. SMC/CV Policy Letter, Mishaps at Contractor Facilities.
     4.2.4.15. While the pertinent AFIs are used as references for the purposes of the RFP,
     they are still considered compliance documents to the Program Office. It will be the
     responsibility of the Program Office to ensure that requirements imposed on the Program
     offices by AFIs is implemented by the contractors through proper flow down of
     requirements and contractual language.
     4.2.4.16. Other RFP/Contractual Items. The SSM will provide input to the other
     RFP/Contractual and related items listed below:
        4.2.4.16.1. Acquisition Strategy Document (ASD).
        4.2.4.16.2. Government or Contractor Statement of Work Award Fee.
        4.2.4.16.3. Federal Acquisition Regulations (FARs).
        4.2.4.16.4. DOD Contractor’s Safety Manual for Ammunition and Explosives.
        4.2.4.16.5. Technical Requirements Document (TRD), System and Subsystem Specs,
        Interface Control Documents.
        4.2.4.16.6. Sample or Reference Mission(s).
        4.2.4.16.7. Tasks.
        4.2.4.16.8. Task Tailoring.
        4.2.4.16.9. Indemnification Strategy.
        4.2.4.16.10. Acquisition Strategy and Template.
        4.2.4.16.11. Line items.
     4.2.4.17. Request for Proposal Instructions to Bidders (RFP Section L). To meet RFP
     requirements, the SSM will coordinate in the Systems Directorate the tailoring of the
     safety items including those listed below as applicable to Section L. The SSM could
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                    37


     choose an option to impose the submittal of a draft SSPP with the proposal. SMC/SES
     can assist in the drafting of particular bidder instructions. The tailoring should impose
     that the Contractor describes the following:
        4.2.4.17.1. Their proposed system safety program strategy, methodology, process,
        major tasks, resources, techniques, tools and criteria to be used to assure the end
        product meets all of the program safety and mishap risk management requirements.
        4.2.4.17.2. Their relevant lessons learned.
        4.2.4.17.3. For Launch Vehicle (LV) programs, their plan to support the Systems
        Directorate’s efforts to satisfy LV system and range safety requirements.
        4.2.4.17.4. For payload programs (e.g., satellites, secondary payloads, experiments,
        demonstrations), their plan to support the Systems Directorate’s efforts to satisfy
        payload system and range safety requirements.
        4.2.4.17.5. For ground control, network and facility systems, their plan to support the
        Systems Directorate’s efforts to satisfy system safety requirements and obtain
        approval/certification.
        4.2.4.17.6. For all programs, their plan to facilitate government system safety insight
        of all relevant contractor system safety activities and their plan to meet system safety
        personnel qualifications as prescribed by the requirements of Table 4.2 of this
        instruction.
        4.2.4.17.7. For all programs, their proposed approach to develop an integrated Test
        and Evaluation (T&E) strategy that will be evaluated. Proposed approach must
        include system safety in a comprehensive, thorough, integrated, and documented
        program T&E plan.
        4.2.4.17.8. For all programs, their proposed approach to develop an integrated
        training program, which includes system safety.
     4.2.4.18. RFP Evaluation Criteria and Standards (Section M). Typically, evaluation
     criteria and standards for system safety will be included under the program management
     and system engineering sections. The following list will be included in Section M for use
     in the evaluation of:
        4.2.4.18.1. The contractor’s detailed description of the System Safety Program. The
        defined approach and specific processes, methodologies, major tasks, resources,
        techniques, tools, and criteria used to develop and implement the system safety
        program will be evaluated against criteria within MIL-STD 882C/D.
        4.2.4.18.2. The contractor’s description of the process by which the system safety
        program will be integrated with the requirements development, system definition,
        system design, operational design, and hazard/risk management processes.
        4.2.4.18.3. The contractor’s proposal in integrating system safety requirements in the
        systems engineering process.
        4.2.4.18.4. The contractor’s proposed approach to developing a T&E strategy. Their
        approach must include system safety in a comprehensive, thorough, integrated, and
        documented program in the T&E plan.
38                                                             SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


         4.2.4.18.5. The contractor’s proposed approach to develop an integrated training
         program which includes system safety.
         4.2.4.18.6. The contractor’s description of how they plan to support the Systems
         Directorate’s efforts to satisfy range safety requirements for payload or launch
         vehicles as defined by the Systems Directorate’s mission.
         4.2.4.18.7. The contractor’s detailed planning (for ground control, network, and
         facility systems) to support the Systems Directorate’s efforts to satisfy all required
         system safety requirements and obtain all required approvals/certifications.
         4.2.4.18.8. The contractor’s description of lessons learned.
         4.2.4.18.9. The contractor’s description (for all programs) of their plan to facilitate
         the government’s system safety requirements and tasks involving all relevant
         contractor system safety activities throughout program life cycle including on-orbit
         and disposal.
     4.2.4.19. Work Breakdown Structure (WBS). The Government PM or PSM and SSM
     must ensure in the RFP’s bidder’s instructions that the contractor provides for a specific
     system safety WBS element.
         4.2.4.19.1. The contractor’s work breakdown structure (CWBS) must identify safety
         elements (tasking and level of effort) and will be consistent with system engineering
         requirements and schedules; the government PM/SSM will ensure this.
         4.2.4.19.2. The SSM must be familiar with the detailed descriptions of both the
         Government’s and contractor’s WBS, and will ensure that system safety is included
         in the WBS and that adequate resources are allocated in order to support system
         safety activities throughout the Program.
     4.2.4.20. Integrated Master Plan /Integrated Master Schedule. Both Government and
     Contractor System Safety tasks will be integrated into the program Integrated Master
     Plan and into the Integrated Master Schedule (IMP and IMS). Contractor’s work
     packages will be consistent with the Government’s system safety tasks.
         4.2.4.20.1. The System Safety task scheduling must guarantee timely safety risk
         identification and control information to support valid management decision making.
         The task schedule will include: task title, phase (for example, Pre-A, A, B, C),
         milestone definitions, and inter task dependencies.
         4.2.4.20.2. Each contractor system safety task will be authorized by inclusion in the
         government approved, contractor created System Safety Program Plan (SSPP).
         4.2.4.20.3. Follow-on contractor tasks authorized by contract change(s) must be
         documented by changes to the approved SSPP. The status of each system safety task
         will be reflected in the SSPP updates, CDRL items/submittals, IMP and IMS in
         accordance with the contract.
  4.2.5. Risk Ranking, Tracking, and Residual Risk Acceptance. The Systems Directorate will
  develop and implement an integrated hazard/risk tracking process.
     4.2.5.1. The results of this process will include the hazardous conditions/actions, hazard
     causes, hazard effects, hazard controls, risk ratings before and after the proposed
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                  39


     control(s), risk and cost effectiveness ranking, hazard control verifications and
     documentation.
     4.2.5.2. The identified hazards and mitigations will be tracked and managed throughout
     the entire program and system life.
     4.2.5.3. The Systems Directorate will manage system safety hazard/risk identification
     and mitigation.
         4.2.5.3.1. Appropriate risk acceptance authorities must be identified and decisions
         must be made and documented prior to the impacted mission or irrevocable action
         (e.g., launch or flight termination).
     4.2.5.4. Risk handling, abatement, control, and/or resolutions strategies will be
     implemented to identify, evaluate, manage and/or resolve each risk, consistent with
     performance, cost and schedule.
     4.2.5.5. Acceptance of residual risk shall be accomplished by signature of the
     appropriate managerial authority on a hazard report, as shown in Table A2.6.
  4.2.6. Reviews and Meetings. The SSM and staff from SMC/SE shall be allowed access to,
  and may participate in government /contractor design reviews, technical interchange
  meetings, management status reviews, source selection boards, system safety group meetings
  and system safety working group meetings, and any other meetings held by the Systems
  Directorate that may be germane to system safety, as determined by SMC/SE.
     4.2.6.1. The SSM shall be included as a member of Program Engineering Change
     Proposal review and Configuration Control Boards (CCB).
  4.2.7. System Safety Group (SSG). A SSG must be established (IAW AFI 91-
  202_AFSPCSUP1_I, Chapter 9) for all SMC acquisition programs that are ACAT 1 or
  equivalent. An SSG should be established for all projects (existing and future SMC space
  systems) that involve design, development, modification, evaluation, demonstration, testing,
  operation and disposal. It applies to all SMC missile, launch vehicle, satellites and ground
  facilities unless waived by AFSPC/SES through SMC/SE.
     4.2.7.1. The SSG will be the method used by senior leadership to provide guidance and
     oversight to the Systems Directorate’s system safety program.
     4.2.7.2. The Systems Director, PM or PSM or the Deputy PM or PSM will chair the
     SSG. The SSG will be responsible for the following:
         4.2.7.2.1. Evaluating the program System Safety status including funding.
         4.2.7.2.2. Ensuring all appropriate managers consider and document the residual
         risks of hazards.
         4.2.7.2.3. Reviewing the analyses of major safety design trade-offs and
         modifications. These analyses will include hazard risk descriptions, proposed
         corrective actions and their effect and current status.
         4.2.7.2.4. Reviewing the status of planned, pending, active, and disapproved safety
         modifications.
40                                                            SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


        4.2.7.2.5. Reviewing and possibly approving or disapproving selected hazard
        analysis and their recommended controls and verification.
        4.2.7.2.6. Reviewing high accident potential reports that have occurred since the last
        meeting.
        4.2.7.2.7. Reviewing User/operator issues.
        4.2.7.2.8. Reviewing the action item summary including action agencies and
        suspense dates; old and new action items.
        4.2.7.2.9. Developing, coordinating and maintaining the SSG charter. (The SSG
        charter will address the purpose and scope of the SSG, SSG membership, operating
        procedures, and administration of the SSG and SSG membership)
            4.2.7.2.9.1. The SSG will consist of the Systems Director/PM/PSM, the SMC
            Chief of System Safety, the Program SSM, and representatives from the using
            organization [i.e., HQ AFSPC, Numbered Air Force (NAFs), Centers, 30th and
            45th Space Wings], Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center (AFOTEC),
            HQ AFSC and other DoD operators and users, including developers and users
            from industry organizations (see AFI 91-202 AFSPCSUP1).
        4.2.7.2.10. Identifying and establishing SSWGs as necessary to work detailed safety
        risks.
     4.2.7.3. The SSG will meet as required (at least annually) at the request of the
     government program manager or product support manager. Any member of the SSG
     may request that the program manager or product support manager call a meeting.
     4.2.7.4. The SSG activities will be embedded in the Systems Directorate/Division SSMP.
     4.2.7.5. The SSG/SSWG will include participation from all Systems Directorate
     stakeholders’ organizations. Physical attendance at any SSG by SMC/SE personnel will
     be funded by the Systems Directorate.
     4.2.7.6. The Systems Director or PM or PSM will be responsible for preparing minutes
     of SSG meetings and distributing them to SSG members and attendees within 30 calendar
     days of the meeting.
        4.2.7.6.1. SSG minutes will be sent to the SMC Directorate of Safety (SMC/SE).
        4.2.7.6.2. If a SSG meeting is not held on a major program within a year of the
        previous meeting, an explanatory letter must be sent to HQ AFSC (copy to
        AFSPC/SES and SMC/SES).
     4.2.7.7. The System Safety Working Group (SSWG).            IAW AFI 91-
     202_AFSPCSUP1_I, the government SSWG will be established by the SSG to work
     detailed safety issues.
        4.2.7.7.1. The SSWG will be chaired by the SSM and does not generally require the
        attendance of the Systems Director or PM or PSM.
        4.2.7.7.2. Typical SSWG activities will include: assessing the status of safety
        activities in the total system, various system segments, elements, subsystems and
        components. Hazards and their mitigations will be reviewed and disposed as follows:
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                        41


             4.2.7.7.2.1. Ill-defined hazards will be returned to the originator for clarification.
             4.2.7.7.2.2. Valid hazards for which mitigation proposals have not been made
             will be assigned to an action officer, for mitigation.
             4.2.7.7.2.3. Valid hazards that have been completely mitigated will be recorded; a
             hazard report form will be generated and presented to the appropriate risk
             acceptance authority for signature, and tracked until final disposition is reached.
             4.2.7.7.2.4. Valid hazards that have been partially mitigated will be documented,
             assigned to an action officer and tracked until final disposition is reached.
             4.2.7.7.2.5. Non-valid hazards and low hazard risks will be documented and
             archived.
         4.2.7.7.3. Typical SSWG members will be government and contractor SSMs,
         contractor specialists, SMC staff system safety engineers (SMC/SES), program office
         engineers, and range safety personnel. Specific attendance at an SSWG meeting will
         depend on the nature of the issues and support required by the SSWG.
         4.2.7.7.4. The SSM will ensure that minutes of meetings are prepared and distributed
         to members and attendees within 30 calendar days after the date of the meeting.
             4.2.7.7.4.1. System safety reviews, SSG/SSWG meeting minutes, and
             audit/inspection results will be written, distributed and stored in the Systems
             Directorate’s system safety filing system or library.
  4.2.8. System Safety Information Architecture and Maintenance. Systems Directorate
  activities will include a process for collecting, reviewing, auditing, analyzing, and sharing of
  system safety information and lessons learned. Required components will include, but are
  not limited, to:
     4.2.8.1. System Safety Management Plan (SSMP) /System Safety Program Plan SSPP.
     4.2.8.2. Preliminary Hazard List.
     4.2.8.3. Preliminary Hazard Analysis Report (system safety, explosive safety and
     bioenvironmental).
     4.2.8.4. Safety Requirements /Criteria Analysis Report.
     4.2.8.5. Subsystem Hazard Analysis Report.
     4.2.8.6. System Hazard Analysis Report.
     4.2.8.7. Operating and Support Hazard Analysis Report.
     4.2.8.8. Health Hazard Assessment Report.
     4.2.8.9. Safety Assessment Report.
     4.2.8.10. Test and Evaluation Safety Report.
     4.2.8.11. Safety Review of Engineering Change Proposals, Specification Change
     Notices, Software Problem Reports, and Requests for Deviation /Waiver.
     4.2.8.12. Safety Compliance Assessment Report.
42                                                             SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


     4.2.8.13. Explosive Hazard Classification and Characteristics Data.
     4.2.8.14. Hazardous Material Management Program Report (HMMPR).
     4.2.8.15. Hazard/Mishap Risk Assessment Matrix (H/MRAM).
     4.2.8.16. System Safety Status Report.
     4.2.8.17. Mishap Risk Assessment Reports (MRARs).
     4.2.8.18. Missile System Pre-launch Safety Packages (MSPSPs).
     4.2.8.19. Environmental Impact Statement or Environmental Impact Report.
     4.2.8.20. Hazard Tracking Logs.
     4.2.8.21. Space Debris Assessment Report (SDAR).
  4.2.9. Hazard Tracking System. In the Systems Directorate, a hazard and mitigation
  tracking system will be implemented as part of the system safety process. The SSM is
  responsible for developing (when necessary) and implementing tracking procedures for all
  identified hazards and their solutions, when feasible or applicable.
     4.2.9.1. The Systems Director, PM or PSM and SSM will ensure that follow-up/close-out
     actions are appropriately tracked and documented.
     4.2.9.2. The Systems Director, PM or PSM and SSM must ensure that management
     decisions for acceptance of residual risks are documented.
     4.2.9.3. The hazard tracking system will provide “closed-loop” feed-forward/feedback
     control of hazards to assure that, for example:
         4.2.9.3.1. Safety recommendations are actually implemented as hazard controls.
         4.2.9.3.2. Test information is used to confirm or update system safety analysis.
         4.2.9.3.3. Safety risks and safety control system performance levels, as determined
         by system safety analyses, will be validated or upgraded with ongoing mishap and
         system performance information.
     4.2.9.4. Part of this tracking will occur through the generation, use and approval of
     analysis documents such as signed hazard reports (see example in Appendix A).
     However, a Hazard Tracking Log will be used later in the tracking process to assure that
     controls identified for each hazard are actually implemented.
     4.2.9.5. The Hazard Tracking Log will summarize each hazard and highlights those that
     are not formally closed. Hazards noted in the Hazard Tracking Log are annotated with
     Hazard Risk Indices (also known as Mishap Risk Assessment Values).
     4.2.9.6. The Hazard Tracking Log will be used to track both design related and
     operationally related hazards.
         4.2.9.6.1. All hazards which have not been closed at the time of issue of the most
         current system safety analysis document (such as MRAR or MSPSP) must be
         summarized as open hazards in the hazard log.
         4.2.9.6.2. Hazards will be tracked from their identification (in the various hazards
         analyses, tests or operational experiences) throughout the system life cycle.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                    43


        4.2.9.6.3. Hazard log entries will be continuously available for reference, and open
        entries will be presented at key milestones including program reviews.
        4.2.9.6.4. All identified hazards must be verified closed prior to the phase of the
        mission when hazard exposure could occur or irrevocable action and decision will
        take place (e.g., launch).
        4.2.9.6.5. Closure of each hazard will be denoted by the signature of appropriate
        contractor and government management on the associated hazard report.
            4.2.9.6.5.1. A hazard will be considered closed only when the cognizant safety
            organizations and program management have determined that one or more of the
            following requirements are met:
                4.2.9.6.5.1.1. The hazard has been eliminated through design, and the design
                action is verified, or,
                4.2.9.6.5.1.2. The hazard has been reduced to an acceptable level in
                accordance with the system safety order of precedence and the level of
                reduction has been suitably verified, or,
                4.2.9.6.5.1.3. The hazard has been assessed and noted. The risk has been
                accepted by contractor and government program offices and other
                stakeholders through the SSG.
                4.2.9.6.5.1.4. Safety concerns affecting schedule, cost, system safety
                precedence, or requiring deviation or waiver to safety requirements have been
                appropriately resolved.
        4.2.9.6.6. While historically paper forms have been used to track hazards, Systems
        Directorates and other organizations conducting acquisition functions are authorized
        and encouraged to operate and maintain hazard risk tracking database software. Each
        system must have a current log of identified hazards and residual mishap risk,
        including an assessment of the residual mishap risk. The tracking system for hazards,
        their closures and residual mishap risk must be maintained throughout the system life
        cycle. As changes are integrated into the system, the hazard log is updated to
        incorporate added or changed hazards and the associated residual mishap risk.
            4.2.9.6.6.1. The Government must formally acknowledge acceptance of system
            hazards and residual mishap risk.
            4.2.9.6.6.2. The SSM should reference MIL-STD-882C/D for contents of the
            hazard tracking system. Assistance can be provided by SMC/SES upon request if
            required support personnel are available.
     4.2.9.7. It will be the responsibility of the Systems Directorate to maintain and use a log
     of all identified hazards and residual mishap risk, as part of their overall system safety
     program. This function must not be delegated to system development contractors, must
     be under the direct cognizance of the Systems Directorate and will be delineated in the
     SSMP. Maintenance and use of hazard logs by Systems Engineering & Integration
     (SE&I) and System Engineering Technical Assistance (SETA) contractors assigned to the
     Systems Directorate must have government oversight for the process to be considered
     “under the direct cognizance of the Systems Directorate.”
 44                                                             SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


4.3. System Safety Engineering. The system safety engineering function (as performed by a
SSM, SSE, or other key safety personnel) must possess and maintain specialized knowledge and
skills and apply engineering principles and techniques to identify, and eliminate or control
system hazards and hazardous conditions, and verify the hazard mitigation in the following
manner:
   4.3.1. Integrating System Safety Engineering in Systems Engineering. System safety will be
   involved in systems engineering throughout the lifecycle, and system safety must be
   embedded as early as possible in the design.
   4.3.2. The System Safety Manager (SSM) or System Safety Engineer (SSE) will perform
   analyses and makes technical recommendations throughout the life cycle, i.e., from concept
   design, development, build, operations, sustainment, and disposal.
       4.3.2.1. Technical documents will be reviewed, evaluated, and corrected by the SSE to
       ensure design safety has been implemented.
       4.3.2.2. System safety approval will be required for release of drawings, specifications,
       computer source code, procedures, and other program documentation that the SSE
       decides has potential system safety impact or designates as safety-critical.
       4.3.2.3. The SSM or SSE interfaces with personnel from other specialties and will
       participate in milestone reviews that include SDR, PDR, CDR, TSR, MRR, FRR and
       LRR.
       4.3.2.4. The SSM or SSE will also work with operational safety organizations and gather
       lessons learned throughout operations and disposal. Safety engineering data will be
       obtained from:
          4.3.2.4.1. Existing analyses from other fields (such as FMECA from reliability).
          4.3.2.4.2. Requirements (Air Force Instructions, MIL-STD’s, etc.).
          4.3.2.4.3. Mishap, high accident potential (HAP) and incident/anomaly data.
          4.3.2.4.4. Lessons learned from similar or previous programs.
          4.3.2.4.5. Test and development data.
          4.3.2.4.6. System safety analysis.
          4.3.2.4.7. Other sources (for example, reports on inspections/assessments, foreign
          object damage, deficiency, injury, maintenance and hazard & maintenance logs).
   4.3.3. System Safety Design Criteria. The SSE will establish system safety design criteria.
   Recommendations for new system safety design criteria will be made using studies, analyses
   and test data.
       4.3.3.1. System Safety design criteria will be used to further evaluate requirements if
       they are adequate, inadequate, or overly restrictive.
       4.3.3.2. System Safety will use the Engineering Change Process to incorporate
       appropriate system safety related changes.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                    45


  4.3.4. Hazard Control and Verification. System Safety engineering tasks will provide
  controls and verifications for hazards identified by hazard analyses and/or failure analyses.
  The results of the system safety process will be documented.
  4.3.5. Non-Developmental Item (NDI). NDIs (such as Commercial Off-the-Shelf or COTS,
  and Government Furnished Equipment or GFE), systems, components, equipment will be
  analyzed for the intended use to identify and resolve hazards.
  4.3.6. Software Safety. Software safety engineering activities will fully support and shall be
  fully integrated to the existing system safety engineering program and functionally link
  software architecture to hazards and their failure pathways. All computer software elements
  must be identified and must be placed under software configuration control. System safety
  design requirements must be properly incorporated into the software and supporting
  documentation.
  4.3.7. Requirements Review, Allocation, and Traceability. Upon request, SMC/SES assists
  the Systems Directorate in developing a list of safety requirements documents for use by the
  SMC program office. The Program’s uniquely tailored documents will be periodically
  updated as baselines, configurations, performance, and processes change. The following list
  identifies some of the Contractor-generated safety requirements documents.
     4.3.7.1. The System Safety Program Plan, which demonstrates how the Contractor
     supports the Government system safety program.
     4.3.7.2. The Hazardous Material Management Plan, which demonstrates how the
     Contractor supports the government hazardous material management program portion of
     the SSMP.
     4.3.7.3. Hazard Reports and Hazard Analysis Reports, which define the safety risks
     found in the Program, and their associated controls.
  4.3.8. Safety-related requirements can also be found in the Technical Requirements
  Document (TRD) and system and sub-system specifications.
  4.3.9. There are also requirements that can be traceable to external documentation, such as:
     4.3.9.1. AFI 91-202_AFSPCSUP1_I, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program.
     4.3.9.2. AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports.
     4.3.9.3. MIL-STD-882C/D, System Safety Program Requirements /Standard Practice For
     System Safety.
     4.3.9.4. MIL-STD-1522A, Standard General Requirements For Safe Design And
     Operation Of Pressurized Missile And Space Systems.
     4.3.9.5. MIL-STD-1540D, Product Verification Requirements For Launch, Upper Stage,
     And Space Vehicles.
     4.3.9.6. MIL-STD-1576, Electroexplosive Subsystem Safety Requirements and Test
     Methods For Space Systems.
     4.3.9.7. MIL-STD-1472F, Human Engineering.
     4.3.9.8. MIL-HDBK 454B, General Guidelines For Electronic Equipment.
46                                                             SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


     4.3.9.9. AFI 91-217, Space Safety And Mishap Prevention Program.
     4.3.9.10. AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards.
     4.3.9.11. AFSPCMAN 91-710, Range Safety User Requirements.
     4.3.9.12. DODI 5000.02, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System.
     4.3.9.13. AFI 63-101, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management.
     4.3.9.14. AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering.
  4.3.10. The SSM must play an active role and be heavily involved in the requirements
  process. SSEs may be assigned to support the SSM to perform specific system safety
  engineering tasks. In the absence of SSEs, responsibilities roll up to the SSM. Activities
  will include:
     4.3.10.1. Review - The SSM will review appropriate Program documentation to ensure
     system safety requirements have been properly incorporated.
     4.3.10.2. Allocation - The SSE will ensure that tasks are allocated from safety
     requirements to the system specifications, the Contractor Statement of Work (CSOW)
     and other documents. The SSM will also ensure that system safety tasks are allocated to
     other disciplines, facilities and organizations. This includes requirement allocation,
     hazard analyses, data, test, configuration control, and facilities.
     4.3.10.3. Traceability - The SSE will ensure that the system safety requirements are
     traced to the appropriate specification. The SSM will also ensure that the responsibility
     for safety concerns is assigned to the appropriate organization (vendor, contractor or
     government).
  4.3.11. Change Control. The SSE will be responsible for the review of design changes for
  system safety impacts, which includes system safety inputs for recommended changes and/or
  corrective actions associated with change activities.
     4.3.11.1. System safety impacts of proposed design changes will be considered in all
     government/contractor configuration control board actions.
     4.3.11.2. A system safety assessment of design changes with recommended mitigations
     will be provided to the PM or PSM and the systems engineer.
     4.3.11.3. Government SSE will be authorized to participate in government configuration
     control board meetings.
  4.3.12. Mishap Risk Mitigation and Control. The SSE will ensure that the system safety
  order of precedence is applied in the mishap risk mitigation and control process. The system
  safety order of precedence, in descending order of preferred technique, includes:
     4.3.12.1. Design for Minimum Risk: The designer shall attempt to eliminate the risk. If
     risk elimination is not possible, the designer shall attempt to modify/change the design so
     as to reduce the risk. Examples of these design modifications/changes include safety
     factors. [A safety factor is the ratio of tensile or yield strength over the maximum
     allowable stress of the material or the ratio of burst pressure over the maximum allowable
     working pressure. Safety factors are used usually when a single point failure in the
     system structure would lead to a safety critical or catastrophic failure. For example,
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                    47


     safety factors are usually used in structural design of high pressure containment systems
     and structural systems in satellites and rockets. Also, they are used in Ground Support
     Equipment (GSE) such as in hoists.]
     4.3.12.2. Incorporate Engineered Safety Features: If risk still remains after designing
     for minimum risk, the designer shall attempt to minimize the risk through engineered
     safety features. Examples of these features include active devices, i.e., redundant
     backups (fault tolerance), interlocks, and pressure relief valves. Provisions shall be made
     for periodic functional checks of the devices when applicable.
        4.3.12.2.1. In the fault tolerance method, the design introduces redundant subsystems
        into the system to increase the probability that if one or more of the redundant
        subsystems failed, the remaining redundant subsystem(s) would still function. As an
        example, for non-safety critical command and control functions; an item (system,
        subsystem, component, or subcomponent) is designed in such a way that item failure
        or malfunction requires two or more independent human errors, or requires two or
        more independent failures, or a combination of independent failure and human error.
        For safety critical command and control functions; the item (system, subsystem,
        component, or subcomponent) is designed such that prior to the item failing or
        malfunctioning at least three independent failures, or three human errors, or a
        combination of three independent failures and human errors must happen.
     4.3.12.3. Incorporate Safety Devices: If the mishap risk can't be designed out, and
     engineering safety features don't work, the designer mitigates the risk through the use of
     fixed, passive protective barriers (e.g. guards, shields, latches, and catches). Provisions
     shall be made for periodic functional checks of safety devices when applicable.
     4.3.12.4. Provide Warning Devices: When design changes, engineered safety features,
     nor safety devices cannot adequately reduce risk, devices shall be used to detect the
     condition and to produce an adequate warning signal to alert personnel of the hazard.
     Warning signals and their application shall be designed to minimize the probability of
     incorrect personnel reaction to the signals and shall be standardized within like types of
     systems. Examples of warning devices include chemical sniffers with alarm for high
     values of the harmful chemical, low oxygen level alarm, warning lights, and computer
     hazard monitoring & annunciation devices. These devices are of limited value for people
     with vision and hearing impairments.
     4.3.12.5. Develop Procedures and Training: Where it is impractical to reduce risk to an
     acceptable level through design selection, with design changes, engineered safety
     features, safety devices, or warning devices, procedures and training shall be used.
     Procedures and training may include formal or informal training, checklists, certification
     or experience requirements, Personal Protective Equipment, etc. From MIL-STD-882C,
     without a specific waiver from the Systems Directorate, no warning, caution, or other
     form of written advisory shall be used as the only risk reduction method for hazards with
     Category I or II severity. Precautionary notations shall be standardized as specified by
     the Systems Directorate. Tasks and activities judged to be safety critical by the Systems
     Directorate may require certification of personnel proficiency. Frequently, combinations
     of the above techniques are used. For example, the designer could use engineered safety
     features, safety devices, and provide training for both of these methods.
48                                                              SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


  4.3.13. Mishap Risk Verification. To ensure the mishap risk mitigations are acceptable for
  safety critical hardware, software, and procedures, the designer shall verify the mishap risk
  mitigations. The verification methods shall include test, analysis, inspection, simulation, and
  demonstration. Depending on the situation, these methods may be used alone or together.
  For example in some situations, testing and analysis may be the required verification
  methods. For clarification, the following verification processes are provided for guidance:
     4.3.13.1. Test. System and subsystem testing shall be typically the preferred method for
     mishap risk verification. SSPPs and test plans and procedure documents shall include
     these system verification tests. Testing usually gives the most accurate results of all the
     verification methods. However, this technique is costly, and utilization of testing may or
     may not be used, or combined with one of the other verification methods, such as
     analysis.
     4.3.13.2. Analysis. If proposed safety testing has a high or serious risk or is too
     expensive to perform, modeling or modeling in conjunction with a reduced amount of
     testing with a medium or low risk and low cost may be the technique of choice. Analysis
     is a mathematical model of the system/subsystem/component operation with the risk
     mitigation incorporated. Analysis can be relatively inexpensive to conduct. Analysis can
     be used alone or in conjunction with each of the other verification methods. The primary
     limitation of analysis, is that typically the model is simpler than the real world situation
     and therefore, may not give as accurate results as testing or analysis in conjunction with
     testing.
     4.3.13.3. Inspection. While inspection is commonly used for quality and workmanship,
     as a verification technique, inspection is the process in which the control,
     system/subsystem/ component, and the interface are carefully viewed to ensure they are
     built to the correct design. If the correct design build has not been accomplished, the
     system is reworked until the design build is accomplished. This method does not address
     the operation of the system/subsystem/component, control, and interface. However, by
     ensuring the as-built design is correct before testing, the method ensures that an
     incorrectly built system is not tested and used.
     4.3.13.4. Simulation. Simulation is a verification technique which mimics the full scale
     testing of the system/subsystem/component with control. Simulation includes small scale
     (laboratory) testing, testing functional mockups, analogy (obtain the risk verification by
     examining this verification in similar systems), and computer simulation through the use
     of software models. Simulation tends to be less expensive than testing; however, the
     technique is of limited use as it will not give as accurate results of the design/operations
     safety of the system/subsystem/component of the system (including control) as testing or
     analysis in conjunction with testing.
     4.3.13.5. Demonstration. Demonstration is a very realistic mishap risk verification
     process as it is conducted to demonstrate that the inherent safety features of the system,
     subsystem or component work. Resources (processes, equipment, personnel, time
     factors, etc.) required to prepare for the demonstration should be equivalent to what is
     required in actual operation. Like the other verification processes, demonstration has
     limitations. For example, if demonstration is the only verification process applied, then,
     it would be similar to a fix-fly-fix process. The processes of verification should be
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                       49


       applied with “an order of precedence,” (For example, perform the analysis first). For
       effect, a combination of the verification processes should be applied.
4.4. System Safety in Operations and Testing. Program management will ensure that the
system can be safely tested and operated. Appropriate safety personnel will review all operating
plans, including test plans and perform hazard analysis to ensure that potential hazards are
identified and their associated risks eliminated or otherwise controlled to acceptable safe levels.
   4.4.1. Safety analysis and verification will be performed on facilities, equipment,
   requirements, specifications, documentation, procedural steps, necessary training and criteria
   to ensure and verify that the hazards are controlled. During operation or test execution,
   ensure safe performance of the operation or test.
       4.4.1.1. The system safety management will implement the hazard tracking and
       mitigation risk resolution database to document hazardous conditions and systems
       deficiencies to enable the development of follow-on test or operational requirements for
       modified or new systems.
   4.4.2. Hazardous systems and subsystems that are to be tested must be tested safely, whether
   the tests are considered developmental or operational. In some cases the loss of a test item
   due to the test may be expected, and the loss of the test item may not be considered a mishap
   unless it represents an unexpected loss to the government.
       4.4.2.1. Test plans and objectives will be considered in advance so that program and
       safety personnel will be able to identify and prevent potential mishaps and to
       appropriately react to a mishap should it occur.
   4.4.3. Test Safety Review Board (TSRB) Process. The AFSPC/SMC TSRB will be
   conducted IAW AFI 99-103 and applied in conjunction with AFI 63-101, AFI 63-1201, AFI
   91-217, AFI 91-202_AFSPCSUP1_I, AFMAN 63-119 and their supporting MAJCOM
   supplements and as applicable AFSPCMAN 91-710. The TSRB will provide an independent
   review of critical tests. The test safety review process is a tool that provides SMC risk
   acceptance authorities the information needed to evaluate the mishap prevention readiness of
   the test activity.
       4.4.3.1. The TSRB will determine which tests are safety-critical but in the case of a
       dispute SMC/SE will be the final SMC authority for determining which tests are safety-
       critical. If SMC/SE is not a member, the TSRB may consult with SMC/SE in
       determining which tests are safety-critical. The Systems Directorate TEMP and other test
       plans will identify safety-critical tests based on the unique risks created by, or mitigated
       using, that test. The Systems Directorate and test personnel are urged to communicate
       test plans early to prevent undesired schedule impacts to the program, and to allow for
       TSRB planning, activities, deliberation, and possible test plan changes.
       4.4.3.2. Changes to the test plan after TSRB review will require re-coordination with the
       TSRB. The TSRB will occur before execution of the test. The TSRB will be convened
       in a timely manner, considering proximity of the board to the beginning of the test and
       requirements to staff the test package. The test team may request the TSRB be combined
       with other review boards (e.g., technical and/or security review boards) to meet schedule
       objectives.
50                                                             SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


     4.4.3.3. TSRB membership will include technically qualified system safety personnel
     who are organizationally independent from the test team or the organization executing the
     test activity. SMC/SE should be consulted as the SMC authority for determining who is
     technically qualified for system safety membership. Test plans for safety critical tests
     must not be released without TSRB approval.
     4.4.3.4. The PM or PSM, in concert with the user and the T&E community, will provide
     safety releases to include a formal system safety risk acceptance to the developmental
     and operational testers prior to any test involving personnel. All system-related system
     safety risks must have been accepted at the appropriate management level prior to
     exposing people, equipment, or the environment to known hazards. A safety release must
     be provided to the Operational Test Agency (OTA) before start of dedicated operational
     testing. The safety release must transmit system safety hazard data to the operators,
     maintainers, and testers.
     4.4.3.5. The PM or PSM must ensure that the system must be capable of being operated
     and maintained in its intended operational environment during dedicated operational
     testing with an acceptable level of system safety risks.
     4.4.3.6. The PM or PSM must ensure that all system safety hazards with an assessed
     mishap risk level of “Serious” or “High” must be mitigated to an acceptable level and a
     safety release provided to the OTA before start of dedicated operational testing.
     4.4.3.7. The PM or PSM must ensure that “The Logistics Support Concept (LSC)” and
     other Air Force concepts (Ref. AFMAN 63-119) must be reviewed and system safety
     constraints and limitations resolved.
  4.4.4. Operational and Space System Safety. Systems Directorates will ensure that proper
  safety tasks are planned, qualified people are provided to accomplish the tasks, authority is
  established and tasks implemented, and that sufficient resources (manning and funding) are
  provided to accomplish the tasks.
     4.4.4.1. Systems Directorate System Safety personnel will participate in OSS&E
     processes such as Space Flight Worthiness Criteria development, Independent Readiness
     Review Team activities, and sometimes other special safety activities, in order that the
     system may safely become and remain operational. SMC Systems Directorates may have
     initial operational as well as developmental responsibilities. Since SMC’s systems are
     almost always space systems or space-related systems, special safety requirements that
     apply to space systems will be observed.
     4.4.4.2. Space Flight Worthiness Criteria (SFWC). Systems Directorate system safety
     and engineering personnel will participate in the development of SFWC, thresholds and
     targets for operational safety for their particular systems. SMC/SE representatives will
     assist if requested and provided that required resources are available.
     4.4.4.3. Operational and Space Safety Tasks. Operational and Space System Safety
     personnel will help plan and execute tasks including list and schedule preparation of
     operational plans and procedures, operating instructions, technical manuals, safety
     training inputs, emergency and recovery procedures, mishap and anomaly reporting,
     corrective actions, continuous safety improvement, disposal or demilitarization, and
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                      51


     collection and feedback of lessons learned into the Systems Director or PM or PSM and
     higher office processes.
     4.4.4.4. Corrective Actions. The corrective action process will track hazards, list any
     needed corrective actions and establish corrective action priorities. The SSM will be
     represented on change board with sign-off responsibility for items with potential system
     safety impact or those designated safety-critical. The SSM, following the guidance of
     SMC/SE, must have the authority to determine what has system safety impact or is to be
     designated safety-critical.
  4.4.5. Qualified People. Operational and space system safety personnel must meet
  qualification requirements that typically include training, experience, certification, education
  and/or other requirements. Training requirements that may apply include weapons safety
  training, space safety or orbital safety training. SMC/SE representatives can assist in
  verifying qualification requirements and obtaining training.
  4.4.6. Establishing authority. Operational and space system safety personnel will assist
  management in establishing and maintaining authority for task accomplishment. Examples
  of authorizing documents that require safety input include SMC Instructions, Systems
  Directorate operating instructions, and program management guides or plans such as the
  SSMP.
  4.4.7. Resources. Operational and space system safety personnel will assist management in
  obtaining resources, both manning and funding, to accomplish operational safety tasks.
  Manpower loading will be planned for the program to allow for application of the appropriate
  amount of resources when they are needed. For example, participation of range safety
  personnel, operating wing Orbital Safety Officers or system safety engineers, customers, and
  warfighters/system users will be planned, budgeted and obtained as required.
 52                                                                SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


                                            Chapter 5

   OTHER ACTIVITIES REQUIRING MAJOR SYSTEM SAFETY INVOLVEMENT

5.1. Other Activities and the System Safety Function. Paragraph 1.1.6. discussed the system
safety relationship to other activities that included interfacing with external agencies such as the
DoD Explosives Safety Board and the USAF Non-Nuclear Munitions Safety Board. At SMC,
there are USAF mandated activities implemented at the SMC level. These activities require
major system safety participation and include some of the following:
5.2. Orbital Operations and Safety. Orbital safety, in accordance with AFI 91-
202_AFSPCSUP1_I, covers activities, after orbital insertion, associated with testing and
operating space vehicles in orbit or deep space, including reentry, recovery and disposal. Orbital
safety begins in the earliest phases of a program when it must be incorporated as part of mission
planning and in the design phase.
   5.2.1. Orbital safety will also be implemented in accordance with AFI 91-217 (Space Safety
   and Mishap Prevention Program) and must cover on-orbit risks and mitigation plans
   including the following subject areas:
       5.2.1.1. Collision Avoidance (minimize the risk of on-orbit collisions with other
       satellites or space debris, maintaining separation of functional and non-functional space
       objects through coordinated launch window management, accurate tracking and orbital
       element set updating; and coordination of planned orbit changes and evasive
       maneuvering to preserve operational space systems and to avoid the generation of
       additional space debris).
       5.2.1.2. Directed Energy (minimize hazards or interference with spacecraft or the general
       public and property on the earth’s surface or in the atmosphere).
       5.2.1.3. Orbital Debris Minimization (minimize the generation of orbital debris during
       and after their service life).
           5.2.1.3.1. Orbital vehicle end-of-life safing (the spacecraft should safely reenter the
           atmosphere or be moved into a disposal orbit at the end of its useful life where it will
           be less likely to interfere with operational spacecraft).
       5.2.1.4. Space Environment (designed to minimize damage due to natural phenomena
       such as meteoroids, solar radiation, spacecraft charging and high energy cosmic radiation,
       solar flares, etc.).
       5.2.1.5. Human Factors (consider human factors in the design of the system and
       operations).
   5.2.2. The Systems Directorate/Division will ensure that a Space Debris Assessment Report
   (SDAR) is generated prior to PDR and updated by CDR addressing timely resolutions of
   identified on-orbit hazard issues in order to minimize program cost and schedule impacts.
       5.2.2.1. The SDAR and EOLP will address and meet requirements and criteria imposed
       by AFI 91-217.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                        53


       5.2.2.2. The Systems Directorate will ensure that the SDAR and EOLP requirements are
       adequately addressed in the RFP and in data submittals.
   5.2.3. To support the orbital safety effort and other aspects of mishap prevention in the
   orbital phase, an on-orbit phase hazard analysis describing possible hazards to, from, by or
   through the space system including the on-orbit asset (e.g. spacecraft) during on-orbit
   operations shall be generated by the contractor prior to PDR and updated by CDR.
       5.2.3.1. Programs that fail to have contractors conduct such on-orbit hazard analysis are
       still responsible for the satisfaction of this requirement; failure to do so must be noted as
       a Program Risk by the Program Manager or Product Support Manager, for either
       resolution or acceptance by the Program Executive Officer. Program Risk notification
       must be submitted immediately after the discovery of the deficiency.
5.3. Programmatic Environment, Safety and Occupational Health Evaluation
(PESHE). The SSM will ensure that the PESHE requirements from the different levels of
instructions and standards (DoDI, AFIs, AFMANs) have been appropriately flowed down to the
program/systems acquisition plans and specifications. The PESHE document is a requirement
applicable to MDAPs and MAIS acquisition programs in accordance with DoDI 5000.02,
Operation of the Defense Acquisition System. It is required to support major milestone
decisions to include MS-B, MS-C, Full-Rate Production or Full Deployment activities. The
PESHE enables DOD program offices to meet several statutory requirements including the
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).
   5.3.1. The SSM will apply the PESHE process in the program and should consult SMC/SE
   for interpretation of the system safety and health functions (and should consult SMC/EN for
   environmental functions) and activities to appropriately implement the evaluation process.
   5.3.2. A separate SMC PESHE instruction (currently being written) will address the overall
   PESHE process.
5.4. Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E). Air Force Policy Directive
63-1, Acquisition And Sustainment Life Cycle Management, establishes the requirement for the
Systems Director or Program Manager (PM) or Product Support Manager (PSM) to assure
OSS&E of all systems and end items currently in or entering the operational inventory.
Additionally, AFPD 63-1 mandates that the, “Air Force shall apply Systems Engineering
processes and practices to all analysis and technical planning activities throughout the life cycle,
from the development of concepts to meet user needs to system disposal.” As such, it is the
responsibility of the System Safety Manager to:
   5.4.1. Ensure mishap-reporting policies and procedures require an evaluation of system or
   end-item operational safety where system or end-item failures or deficiencies or failure to
   follow OSS&E processes are found to have contributed to the mishap.
   5.4.2. Ensure that appropriate System Safety policies and procedures are available for use in
   the acquisition process and for all systems and end-items.
   5.4.3. Ensure that mishap investigation information and recommendations are provided to
   the responsible Program Manager or Product Support Manager for a system or end-item
   involved in a mishap.
 54                                                             SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


   5.4.4. Identify and communicate system and end-item safety hazards, risks, and
   recommendations to Program Managers or Product Support Managers and using
   commands/organizations for their assessment and action.
5.5. SMC Independent Readiness Review Team (IRRT). The SMC IRRT will provide for
participation of SMC/SE representatives, and the Systems Directorate will provide resources as
required for SMC/SE representative participation.
   5.5.1. SMC/SE may participate on the SMC IRRT to provide independent System Safety
   Assessments of program activities, to ensure mishap prevention readiness and to share
   lessons learned.
   5.5.2. SMC/SE will receive and be provided timely IRRT overview briefs, in-progress
   reviews such as MRR current risk assessments, consent to ship, available Aerospace
   Corporate President Reviews, Flight Readiness Review (FRR) formal risk assessments, and
   Post Flight Reviews.
5.6. Range Safety. Early and continuous coordination between the SSM, SMC/SE, and the
Range Safety Office (“the Range”, typically either the 30th SW/SE at Vandenberg AFB, or the
45th SW/SE at Patrick AFB) ensures that Launch Safety requirements are addressed early in the
Program, and are key to a successful Launch and Mission partnership. Examples of such
involvement include participation in the program reviews, SSGs/SSWGs, and review of safety
documentation such as the MRAR and MSPSP.
   5.6.1. SMC Program Offices will obtain coordination or concurrence of safety
   documentation, to include any tailoring of such documents, with the applicable Range. SMC
   program offices should consult with SMC/SE for assistance as required.
   5.6.2. Although these requirements are intended for Range Users and Operators, the SSM
   must ensure that any items brought to the ranges by the SMC Systems Directorate to support
   launch operations also comply with Range Safety requirements.
   5.6.3. Range Safety requirements from the above documents are tailored (i.e. deleted,
   altered, or added) to better accommodate the program being supported in a more efficient and
   economical manner. It is the responsibility of the Systems Directorate to ensure that funding
   is made available in order to perform both the tailoring activity and the proper execution of
   those tailored tasks.
   5.6.4. Tailoring of AFSPCMAN 91-710 (or EWR 127-1 for legacy programs) will be
   conducted by the Contractor and/or the SSM, with concurrence from the applicable Range.
   Similarly, the tailoring for AFSPCMAN 91-711 will be conducted by the SSM. The Systems
   Directorate SSM may consult with SMC/SE for assistance as needed. The Ranges reserve
   final approval authority for tailoring these documents.
   5.6.5. Range personnel, as well as their contractors, should be participants at the regularly
   scheduled System Safety Working Groups and System Safety Group meetings. Specific
   agenda topics that may be of interest to the Range include:
       5.6.5.1. Incidents, near-misses, and mishaps (to include Investigation and Root Causes),
       particularly those involving pre-launch, launch, and post-launch operations.
       5.6.5.2. Flight Termination Systems.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                      55


       5.6.5.3. Launch Vehicle and Upper-stage debris or disposal.
       5.6.5.4. Controlled re-entry of launch vehicles and upper stages.
       5.6.5.5. Explosives, Propellants, and Pressure Vessels.
       5.6.5.6. On-orbit safety analysis.
   5.6.6. As part of the overall Program Office’s Lessons Learned process, the SSM should
   capture and implement any lessons learned and design solutions recognized by the Ranges as
   an acceptable means of compliance.
5.7. Risk Management. There is a direct relationship between system safety and risk
management. All SMC organizations are required to have a risk management plan tailored to
their mission and acquisition strategy. This risk management plan will be a valuable tool to the
System Safety Manager and every effort should be made to leverage the strengths of both
programs to ensure the greatest opportunity for mission success.
   5.7.1. There are several areas that a SSM should focus on with risk management. The SSM
   should perform the following for risk management:
       5.7.1.1. Read, understand and be able to properly interpret and apply AFI 90-
       901_AFSPCSUP1_I (Operational Risk Management), AFPAM 90-902, and all applicable
       SMC and organizational risk management guidance. The organization’s Risk Manager
       (RM) is the functional expert in this area and will provide a better understanding of both
       the AF’s and the organization’s tailored policies.
       5.7.1.2. Meet and develop a working relationship with the organization’s RM and his
       alternate to understand their roles in the program and how they are able to assist the SSM.
       5.7.1.3. Ensure that system safety issues, when identified and appropriate, are included
       in the Program Office’s RM database.
       5.7.1.4. Attend the scheduled risk management meetings and provide input to mitigation
       actions and risk rankings.
   5.7.2. SSMs will provide guidance to the risk management team if and when necessary.
SSM’s are always welcome to contact SMC/SE to clarify any questions or assist in the Risk
Management Process.
5.8. Interface with Air Force Operational Test & Evaluation Center (AFOTEC). For SMC
programs that have AFOTEC involvement, close coordination between the Systems Directorate
SSM, SMC/SE and AFOTEC/SE is key to a successful and safe operational test.
   5.8.1. AFOTEC is a mandatory member of SSGs (IAW AFI 91-202). AFOTEC may require
   a copy of any safety documentation on the program in sufficient time prior to observing,
   participating or conducting tests. Typical safety documents required by AFOTEC/SE
   include, but are not limited to: safety certifications and reviews, PESHE, SSMP, SSPP, PHL,
   PHA, SSHA, SHA, O&SHA, SRCA, MRAR, MSPSP and the SAR.
5.9. USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution (DRI&R), T.O. 00-35D-
54. The Systems Director or PM or PSM is responsible for implementing DRI&R IAW T.O. 00-
35D-54. PMs or PSMs will ensure active oversight and awareness of DRI&R status and,
depending on the category of the Deficiency Reports (DRs), the PM or PSM will either accept
 56                                                               SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


the risk or recommend the acceptance of risk to the appropriate level of the chain of command
prior to closing a DR. The PM or PSM will ensure members, of their assigned units, receive
role-based DRI&R training as defined in T.O. 00-35D-54. PMs or PSMs are responsible for
maintaining visibility of DRs reported against their system regardless of where the DR is
assigned for resolution. The SSM will be an integral member of the DRI&R process for their
system.
   5.9.1. The SSM will coordinate and participate with the screening point and/or the assigned
   Single Point of Contact (SPOCO) to properly categorize DRs for validity, correctness of
   entries, accuracy and completeness of information and proper transmission of DRs to the
   proper Action Point.
   5.9.2. The PM or PSM will establish a proactive process to analyze data and act accordingly
   to implement solutions to include the following specific objectives:
       5.9.2.1. Correction of deficiencies is done within the program’s available resources and
       prioritized by risk.
       5.9.2.2. Identify and resolve T&E, product quality and materiel deficiencies throughout
       the system life cycle.
       5.9.2.3. Commence deficiency reporting and resolution processes as early as possible,
       but not later than CDR. Early monitoring and oversight of system anomalies promotes
       the most effective technical and programmatic decisions for reducing total ownership
       cost.
       5.9.2.4. Integrate deficiency analysis and resolution processes within quality, systems
       engineering and overall lifecycle management plans and documentation to identify root
       cause and prevent or mitigate recurrence.
       5.9.2.5. Assess safety risks and investigate as necessary to resolve materiel deficiencies.
       5.9.2.6. Provide historical collection of deficiency data to share knowledge with
       authorized activities responsible for design, development, safety, contracts and other
       related acquisition functional activities.
5.10. Risk Management Plans. The PM or PSM is required to prepare a Risk Management
Plan (RMP) for all ACAT programs, potential ACAT programs, and Services Category I and II
programs IAW AFI 63-101. The RMP describes the strategy by which the program will
coordinate and integrate its risk management efforts to include a description and the
responsibilities of the cross-functional risk management IPT.
   5.10.1. The PM or PSM may be required to use the 5x5 risk matrix, likelihood criteria, and
   consequence criteria (IAW AFI 63-101) to assess cost, schedule, performance and other
   program risks including system safety. Per AFI 63-101, risks identified using the MIL-STD-
   882D system safety methodology shall be translated using Table 3.1 of AFI 63-101 (Table
   5.1 below, Translation of MIL-STD-882D Risk Matrix to the OSD Risk Management Guide
   Matrix). All “High” and “Serious” ESOH risks identified using the MIL-STD-882D system
   safety methodology and the translation table will be presented by the PM or PSM as risk
   related information a part of all program technical, and Milestone decision reviews or to
   support other key decisions.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                  57


   5.10.2. The SSM must be familiar with the MIL-STD-882D methodology, the translation of
   risk process IAW AFI 63-101 and how the identified system safety risks are factored in and
   related to the overall program risk management process.
   5.10.3. Note that Tables A2.7 – A2.10 have been tailored to meet MIL-STD-882D or C
   mishap risk management methodology, applied to the SMC organization and hierarchy.
   Tables A.1.8 – A.1.11 will be used as the starting point for SMC government and
   RFP/contractual System Safety program tailoring. Variations will be coordinated in advance
   with appropriate authorities including SMC/SES, and shall be approved at appropriate levels
   in the SMC and higher level organizational hierarchy.

Table 5.1. Translation of MIL-STD-882D Risk Matrix to the OSD Risk Management
Guide Matrix.




                                           PAUL J. MEJASICH, GGE-15, DAFC
                                           Director of Safety
 58                                                             SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


                                       Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Table A1.1. Definition of Terms.

 Terms               Definitions

                     A condition with the potential to cause harm.
 Hazard
 Hazard Report       A report used for tracking and mitigating hazards. This report contains
 (HR)                the details of the hazard, how it affects the system, the risks, and all
                     necessary references needed to track the hazard. This report also
                     contains the signatures of the persons responsible for accepting the
                     hazard.
 Hazard Risk         A matrix that shows each hazard, its probability, and level of severity.
 Assessment Matrix   This matrix is very useful in quickly assessing the overall program risks.
 (HRAM)              It is sometimes referred to as a Hazard Action Matrix or Mishap Risk
                     Assessment Matrix.

 High Accident       Significant aircraft, missile, space, explosives, miscellaneous air
 Potential (HAP)     operations, or ground events with a high potential for causing injury,
 Event               occupational illness, or damage if they recur. These events do not have
                     reportable mishap costs.

                     As defined in AFI 91-202 (USAF Mishap Prevention Program), Space
                     incidents/anomalies do not meet the Class A, B, C or D mishap or Class
                     E event reporting criteria, but the cause of which could have important
                     mishap prevention value, shall be investigated and reported as a HAP
                     event. In this context, it is important for each incident to be investigated
                     to determine the “root cause” and to extract information that could be
                     useful in the exchange of mishap prevention information as “lessons
                     learned.”

 Mishap              An unplanned event, or series of events, that results in damage to DoD
                     property; occupational illness to DoD military or civilian personnel;
                     injury to DoD military personnel on/off duty; injury to on-duty civilian
                     personnel; damage to public and private property or injury and illness to
                     non-DoD personnel caused by DoD operations. Also includes the
                     degradation of nuclear or radiological safety. Mishaps are further
                     classified as follows:

                     Missile Mishap – Unplanned damage to or functioning of a missile; or
                     damage, illness, or injury caused by a missile; or when the missile fails to
                     complete its intended mission.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                        59


                     Orbital Mishap – For satellites, declaration of a space mishap will be
                     based upon the permanent loss or degradation of a primary or non-
                     primary mission capability. Degradation includes shortened life span
                     and/or degraded data or mission performance.

                     Space Mishap – An accident involving a space system and/or unique
                     space support equipment. Mishaps which occur prior to launch, or are
                     limited to components or equipment commonly used in non-space
                     applications, and not specifically configured for space related use will be
                     classified as ground and industrial mishaps with space involvement.

Mission Capability   This term encompasses the purpose and functions of the space system
                     throughout its intended system mean mission duration (e.g., the design
                     life of the space vehicle).

Preliminary Hazard   A basic hazard analysis, which establishes the framework for other
Analysis (PHA)       hazard analyses and safety engineering evaluation of the design. It is
                     designed to obtain an initial safety risk assessment of a concept or
                     system. It is performed to identify safety critical areas, evaluate
                     hazardous conditions and identify safety design criteria. The analysis
                     results are used to develop safety requirements and to prepare
                     performance, design and verification requirements.

Preliminary Hazard   A list of hazards developed at the very start of a program, or project to
List (PHL)           assess the suspected risks/hazards/mitigations. This list is only an
                     assessment to focus the systems safety effort and is usually developed
                     after the first review of the system description.

System Safety        System Safety is a process that applies engineering and management
                     principles, criteria, and techniques to optimize all aspects of safety within
                     the constraints of operational effectiveness, time and cost throughout all
                     phases of the system life cycle. System Safety is also a value of a
                     program or an attribute of a system similar to quality, reliability, or life
                     cycle cost. System Safety as an attribute is inversely related to mishap
                     risk, and the process is sometimes called mishap risk management.

System Safety        The SSE is a uniquely trained engineer who performs system safety
Engineer (SSE)       engineering activities on behalf of the System Safety Manager.

System Safety        System Safety Engineering is an engineering discipline requiring
Engineering          specialized professional knowledge and skills in applying scientific and
                     engineering principles, criteria, and techniques to identify and eliminate
                     hazards, in order to reduce the associated risk.

System Safety        System Safety Management is the use of processes that plan, organize
Management           and control the program’s mishap risk, as well as interfacing with other
60                                                          SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


                  disciplines and organizations. Government and contractor management
                  is responsible for providing a program with the necessary skilled
                  personnel and resources to focus on the specific objectives of providing a
                  product that is safe and meets all performance, cost and schedule
                  requirements. The evolution of a comprehensive System Safety Program
                  (SSP) is critical in the process of defining and integrating cost, schedule
                  and performance requirements.

System Safety     The SSM is a uniquely trained engineer who performs system safety
Manager (SSM)     management activities on behalf of program management. The
                  government or contractor SSM is officially assigned in writing by the
                  appropriate Program Manager or Systems Directorate. A SSM serving
                  part time, assisting the primary SSM or in a geographically separate
                  location is sometimes referred to as a System Safety Officer (SSO), and
                  shall meet the same qualification requirements. There shall be at least
                  one responsible full time System Safety Manager or System Safety
                  Engineer per Directorate or Program Office.

System Safety     The SSMP is a document that contains guidance on how the Program
Management Plan   Office or Directorate will implement System Safety requirements. When
(SSMP)            signed by both the Directorate or Program Office and SMC/SE, it ensures
                  the planning, implementation, and accomplishment of system safety tasks
                  and activities consistent with the overall program requirements. The
                  SSMP is written for and overall government organization’s effort,
                  meeting the same types of requirements as a System Safety Program Plan
                  (see below), and integrating, but not duplicating, associated documents
                  such as contractor System Safety Program Plans.

System Safety     When implemented as part of a tailored MIL-STD-882C/D, the SSPP is a
Program Plan      description of the planned tasks and activities to be used by the
(SSPP)            responsible organization(s) to implement the required system safety
                  program. This description includes organizational responsibilities,
                  resources of funds and personnel, methods of accomplishment,
                  milestones, depth of effort, and integration with other program
                  engineering and management activities and related systems.

Safety            Safety is the freedom from those conditions that can cause death, injury,
                  occupational illness, or damage to or loss of equipment or property, or
                  damage to the environment.

System            System is a composite, at any level of complexity, of personnel,
                  procedures, material, tools, equipment, facilities, and software. The
                  elements of this composite entity are used together in the intended
                  operational or support environment to perform a given task or achieve a
                  specific capability, purpose, support, or mission requirement.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                 61


Table A1.2. Acronyms List.
   ACAT                Acquisition Category
   ADM                 Acquisition Decision Memorandum
   AFI                 Air Force Instruction
   AFPD                Air Force Policy Directive
   AFOSH               Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
   AFOTEC              Air Force Operational Test and Evaluation Center
   AFSC                Air Force Safety Center
   AFSPC               Air Force Space Command
   AFSPCMAN            Air Force Space Command Manual
   AoA                 Analysis of Alternatives
   APB                 Acquisition Program Baseline
   APDP                Acquisition Professional Development Program
   ASD                 Acquisition Strategy Document
   ARAR                Accident Risk Assessment Report
   ASR                 Alternative Systems Review
   BS                  Bachelor of Science degree
   CARD                Cost Analysis Requirements Description
   CAE                 Component Acquisition Executive
   CCA                 Clinger-Cohen Act (CCA)
   CCB                 Configuration Control Board
   CDD                 Capabilities Development Document
   CDR                 Critical Design Review
   CDRL                Contract Data Requirements List
   COTS                Commercial Off The Shelf
   CPD                 Capability Production Document
   CSOW                Contractor Statement of Work
   CSP                 Certified Safety Professional
   CWBS                Contractor Work Breakdown Structure
   DAL                 Data Accession List
   DID                 Data Item Description
   DoD                 Department of Defense
   DoDI                DoD Instruction
   DOT                 Department of Transportation
   DR                  Decision Review
   ECP                 Engineering Change Proposal
   DRIS                Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System
   EHC                 Explosive Hazard Classification
   EMD                 Engineering & Manufacturing Development
   EOLP                End-of-Life Plan
   ESOH                Environment, Safety and Occupational Health
   EWR                 Eastern and Western Range
   FCA                 Functional Configuration Audit
62                                                      SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


     FDP            Flight Data Package
     FFRDC          Federally Funded Research and Development Corporation
     FMECA          Failure Mode Effects and Criticality Analysis
     FOC            Full Operational Capability
     FRP            Full Rate Production
     FRR            Flight Readiness Review
     GFE            Government Furnished Equipment
     GSE            Ground Support Equipment
     GSOW           Government Statement of Work
     HAP            High Accident Potential
     HHAR           Health hazard Assessment Report
     HMMPR          Hazardous Material Management Program Report
     HRAM           Hazard Risk Assessment Matrix
     HSI            Human Systems Integration
     HSIP           Human Systems Integration Plan
     IAW            In Accordance With
     IBR            Integrated Baseline Review
     ICD            Initial Capabilities Document, Interface Control Document
     IMP            Integrated Master Plan
     IMS            Integrated Master Schedule
     IOC            Initial Operating Capability
     IRRT           Independent Readiness Review Team
     ISR            During Operations and Support In-Service Reviews
     ITR            Initial Technical Review
     LRIP           Low Rate Initial Production
     MAJCOM         Major Command
     MDD            Materiel Development Decision
     MIL-STD        Military Standard
     MRAM           Mishap Risk Assessment Matrix
     MRAR           Mishap Risk Assessment Report
     MRR            Mission Readiness Review
     MS             Master of Science degree
     MSA            Materiel Solution Analysis
     MS-A           Milestone A
     MS-B           Milestone B
     MS-C           Milestone C
     MSPSP          Missile System Pre-Launch Safety Package
     NAVEODTECHCE
                    Naval Explosive Ordnance Disposal Technology Center
     N
     NDI            Non-Developmental Item
     O&S            Operations & Support
     ORM            Operational Risk Management
     O&SHA          Operating & Support Hazard Analysis
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                               63


   OSS&E             Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
   OT&E              Operational Test & Evaluation
   OTRR              Operational Test Readiness Review
   PCA               Physical Configuration Audit
   PDR               Preliminary Design Review
   P&D               Production & Deployment
   PEO               Program Executive Officer
                     Programmatic Environment, Safety, & Occupational Health
   PESHE
                     Evaluation
   PHA               Preliminary Hazard Analysis
   PHL               Preliminary Hazard List
   PM                Program Manager
   PMB               Performance Measurement Baseline
   PMR               Program Management Review
   PRR               Production Readiness Review
   PSM               Product Support Manager
   RF                Radio Frequency
   RFP               Request for Proposal
   RFQ               Request for Quotation
   SAE               Service Acquisition Executive
   SAF               Secretary of the Air Force
   SAR               Safety Assessment Report
   SAF/AQ            Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition
   SAF/AQR           Deputy Assistant Secretary (Science, Technology and Engineering)
   SAF/US            Under Secretary of the Air Force
   SAR               Safety Assessment Report
   SDAR              Space Debris Assessment Report
   SDR               Systems Design Review
   SEP               Systems Engineering Plan
   SETA              Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance
   SFR               System Functional Review
   SFWC              Space Flight Worthiness Criteria
   SMC               Space and Missile Systems Center
   SMC/EN            SMC Engineering Directorate
   SMC/ENF           SMC Enterprise Engineering Division
   SMCI              Space and Missile Systems Center Instruction
   SMC/SE            SMC Directorate of Safety
   SMC/SES           SMC System Safety Division
   SOW               Statement of Work
   SRR               System Requirements Review
   SSE               System Safety Engineer
   SSG               System Safety Group
   SHA               System Hazard Analysis
64                                                   SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


     SSHA       Subsystem Hazard Analysis
     SSHAR      System Safety Hazard Analysis Report
     SSM        System Safety Manager
     SSMP       System Safety Management Plan
     SSO        System Safety Officer
     SSPP       System Safety Program Plan
     SSWG       System Safety Working Group
     SVR        System Verification Review
     TD         Technology Development
     TDS        Technology Development Strategy
     TES        Test and Evaluation Strategy
     T&E        Test and Evaluation
     TEMP       Test and Evaluation Master Plan
     TRA        Technology Readiness Assessment
     TRD        Technical Requirements Document
     TRR        Test Readiness Review
     TSRB       Test Safety Review Board
     USD AT&L   Undersecretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and logistics
     WBS        Work Breakdown Structure
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                      65


                                        Attachment 2
                             APPLICABLE DOCUMENTS LIST

Table A2.1. Applicable Documents List.
Document                     Comments                               Source
AF System Safety             This handbook provides an              Air Force Safety Center,
Handbook                     overview of System Safety              Kirtland, AFB

AFI 91-202, Air Force        SMC uses the AFSPC                     http://www.e-
Mishap Prevention            Supplement                             publishing.af.mil/
Program
AFI 91-204, Safety           SMC uses the AFSPC                     http://www.e-
Investigations and Reports   Supplement                             publishing.af.mil/
AFI 91-217, Space Safety     Provides requirements for Space        http://www.e-
And Mishap Prevention        Debris and End-of-Life.                publishing.af.mil/
Program
AFI 63-101, Acquisition      Translation of MIL-STD-882D Risk       http://www.e-
And Sustainment Life         Matrix to the OSD Risk                 publishing.af.mil/
Cycle Management             Management Guide Matrix.
AFI 91-110, Nuclear          Defines the nuclear safety review      All versions can be found on
Safety Review And            and launch approval procedures for     the Web or from SMC/SE
Launch Approval For          using radioactive materials in space
Space Or Missile Use Of      or missiles.
Radioactive Material And
Nuclear Systems
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle                                             http://www.e-
Systems Engineering                                                 publishing.af.mil/
AFMAN 63-119,                Defines PESHE requirements during      http://www.e-
Certification Of System      operational tests.                     publishing.af.mil/
Readiness For Dedicated
Operational Test And
Evaluation
AFMAN 99-103,                                                       http://www.e-
Capabilities-Based Test                                             publishing.af.mil/
And Evaluation
AFPD 91-2, Safety            Air Force Safety Policy Directive      http://www.e-
Programs, 28 September                                              publishing.af.mil/
1993
AFSPCMAN 91-710,             Superseded EWR 127-1.                  http://www.e-
Range                        Used for new programs.                 publishing.af.mil/
Safety User Requirements
Manual
66                                                              SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


AFSPCMAN 91-711,                                                     http://www.e-
Launch                                                               publishing.af.mil/
Safety Requirements for
Air
Force Space Command
Organizations
 AFSPCI 10-1204,            Establishes guidance and procedures      http://www.e-
 Satellite Operations       for satellite operations and disposal.   publishing.af.mil/


AFSPCI 10-604,              Outlines Space Operations Weapon         http://www.e-
Operations                  System Management processes of           publishing.af.mil/
Space Operations Weapon     concept development, system
System Management           development, acquisition,
                            testing, and operations of Air Force
                            Space Command (AFSPC) systems
                            and equipment. Assigns
                            roles and responsibilities of the
                            planners, developers, operators, and
                            maintainers, and describes the
                            overall processes to conceive,
                            develop, acquire, train, test, and
                            transition a program or system
                            providing space capabilities.

AFMAN 91-222, Space                                                  http://www.e-
Safety Investigations and                                            publishing.af.mil/
Reports
AFMAN 91-201,               Provides requirements for operations http://www.e-
Explosives Safety           and facility siting involving        publishing.af.mil/
Standards                   explosives.
AFOSHSTD 48-9, Radio                                             http://www.e-
Frequency Radiation                                              publishing.af.mil/
(RFR) Safety Program
AFOSHSTD 91-50,                                                      http://www.e-
Communications Cable,                                                publishing.af.mil/
Antenna And
Communications-
Electronic(C-E) Systems
AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air                                                 http://www.e-
Force Consolidated                                                   publishing.af.mil/
Occupational Safety
Standard
EWR 127-1, Eastern and      Used for legacy programs
Western Range, 31           Only.
October,
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                          67


1997


DoDI 5000.02, Operation   Guidance for DoD Space           Can be found on
of the Defense            System Acquisition Process.      the Web or from SMC/SE
Acquisition System, 08
December 2008
DoDI 3100.12, Space       Guidance on Space Policy         Can be found on
Support, 14 September                                      the Web or from SMC/SE
2000
DoDD 3100.10, Space       Guidance on Space Policy         Can be found on
Policy, 09 July 1999                                       the Web or from SMC/SE

MIL-STD-882C, System      SMC Standard. Provides           All versions can be found on
Safety Program            uniform requirements for         the Web or from SMC/SE
Requirements              developing and implementing
                          a system safety program.
MIL-STD-882D,             SMC Standard. Provides           All versions can be found on
Department Of Defense     uniform requirements for         the Web or from SMC/SE
Standard Practice For     developing and implementing
System Safety             a system safety program.

ANSI/GEIA-STD-0010,       Commercial Standard. Provides    TechAmerica Standard
Standard Best Practices   uniform requirements for
for System Safety         developing and implementing
Program Development       a system safety program.
and Execution, 12
February 2009

MIL-STD-1472F, Human      Guidance of safety, health and   All versions can be found on
Engineering               human factors engineering for    the Web or from SMC/SE
                          equipment and facilities
MIL-STD-1576,                                              All versions can be found on
Electroexplosive                                           the Web or from SMC/SE
Subsystem Safety
Requirements and Test
Methods For Space
Systems

MIL-STD-1522A,                                             All versions can be found on
Standard General                                           the Web or from SMC/SE
Requirements For Safe
Design And Operation Of
Pressurized Missile And
Space Systems
68                                                              SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011




MIL-STD-1542B,              Guidance for system safety              All versions can be found on
Electromagnetic             design/grounding for space system       the Web or from SMC/SE
Compatibility               facilities.
And Grounding
Requirements
For Space System
Facilities

MIL-STD-1540D, Product                                              All versions can be found on
Verification Requirements                                           the Web or from SMC/SE
For Launch, Upper Stage,
And Space Vehicles

MIL-HDBK 454B,                                                      All versions can be found on
General Guidelines For                                              the Web or from SMC/SE
Electronic
Equipment

Software Safety             Funded and developed by the Joint       All versions can be found on
Handbook                    Services Computer Resources             the Web or from SMC/SE
                            Management Group, U.S. Navy,
                            U.S. Army, and the U.S. Air Force
                            Under the direction and guidance of
                            the Joint Services Software Safety
                            Committee of the Joint Services
                            System Safety Panel
                            and the Electronic Industries
                            Association, G-48 Committee.

29 CFR 1910, General                                                All versions can be found on
Industry                                                            the Web or from SMC/SE

29 CFR 1926,                                                        All versions can be found on
Construction                                                        the Web or from SMC/SE

GIDEP (Government-          A cooperative activity between          All versions can be found on
Industry Data Exchange      government and industry                 the Web
Program)                    participants seeking to reduce or
                            eliminate expenditures of resources
                            by sharing technical information
                            essential during research, design,
                            development, production and
                            operational phases of the life cycle
                            of systems, facilities and equipment.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                     69


 SMC-S-015 (2008)            End-of-Life Disposal of Satellites       Aerospace
                             Operating at Geosynchronous
                             Altitude

 SMC-S-001 (2008)            Systems Engineering                      Aerospace

 AEROSPACE REPORT                                                     Aerospace
 NO. TOR-2008(8583)-
 8215, Space and Missile
 Systems Center
 Compliance
 Specifications and
 Standards

 T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF        Provides the Air Force with a means      All versions can be found on
 Deficiency Reporting,       of identifying deficiencies, resolving   the Web or from SMC/SE
 Investigation, And          those deficiencies within the bounds
 Resolution                  of program resources and the
                             appropriate acceptance of risk for
                             those deficiencies that cannot be
                             resolved in a timely manner.

The Program Office or Systems Directorate SSMP describes system safety management and
engineering tasks in the System Safety Program (SSP). While each program will be different, all
SSMPs have the same general content. The following sample SSMP outline is provided as an
aid in the effort to create the unique Systems Directorate SSMP. SMC/SES will work with
Systems Directorate personnel in drafting the SSMP by providing additional samples and writing
support.

Table A2.2. System Safety Management Plan Outline.
Government Systems Directorate/Division System Safety Management Plan (SSMP) Outline:

TITLE PAGE

SIGNATURE PAGE

Revision History.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER 1: GENERAL

1.1. SSP Scope, Purpose and Objectives.

1.2. Reference key documents including SMCI 63-1205, and separate Systems Directorate
System Safety operating instructions or SSG charters, if any. Reference appendices with terms,
 70                                                              SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


reference documents, mishap risk management procedures.


CHAPTER 2: MANAGEMENT

2.1. System Safety and Systems Directorate organization.

2.2. Personnel authority and responsibility including Military, Civil Service, FFRDC, SETA and
contractor.

2.3. Interfaces with other organizations including SMC System Safety Staff.

2.4. Interfaces and integration with other Systems Directorate processes including Risk
Management, PESHE, OSS&E /Mission Assurance and Systems Engineering to ensure all
necessary tasks are accomplished and none duplicated.

2.5. SSM direct access to program manager or product support manager.

2.6. SSM Functions in the Systems Directorate:

2.6.1. Systems Directorate point of contact for System Safety activities and consultation of
behalf of the Systems Director.

2.6.2. Systems Directorate SSG, SSWG and Mishap Prevention/Risk Management.
Government Systems Directorate/Division System Safety Management Plan (SSMP) Outline
(continued):

2.6.3. SSM/SSE Design Drawing Review and Approval.

2.6.4. SSM membership in Systems Directorate’s processes including CCB.

2.7. Task, Data, Schedule and Resource Requirements:

2.7.1. Schedule, manning and funding policy for tasks and data for all Systems Directorate
programs in various phases.

2.7.2. Tasks including acquisition strategy participation, RFP development, proposal evaluation
and source selection, Task Order & Plans development for FFRDC support, obtaining SETA
support, etc.

2.7.3. Schedule.

2.7.4. Manning resources for Systems Directorate and programs including Military, Civil
Service, FFRDC, SETA and contractor.

2.7.5. Funding.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                       71



2.8. Personnel Qualification Requirements (Education, Training, Experience, and Certification).


CHAPTER 3: SYSTEM SAFETY ENGINEERING

3.1. Areas of emphasis for system safety efforts.

3.2. List analyses and data needed (i.e., PHL, PHA, SSHA, SHA, O&SHA, SSPP, MRAR, etc.)

3.3. Require system safety personnel to review each ECP, hazard or mishap risk classification,
accident and mishap or anomaly, corrective action suspense and corrective action. Specify ECP
safety review sheet information.

3.4. Specify that design review presentations will include system safety engineering impacts,
and that concept and design proposals will not be accepted as complete unless they include
safety impacts.

3.5. Specify participation in SSG/SSWG activities by Military, Civil Service, FFRDC, SETA
and Contractor personnel. (See appendix for SSG Charter).

3.6. Schedule milestones and deadlines for system safety engineering tasks.

3.7. Draft schedule completion dates.

3.8. PHAs complete deadline, example 30 days before PDR.

3.9. SSHA complete deadline, example 30-45 days before CDR.
Government Systems Directorate/Division System Safety Management Plan (SSMP) Outline
(continued):

3.10. SHA complete deadline, example 30-45 days before CDR.

3.11. O&SHA complete deadline, example 60 days before test or operation.

3.12. Other…


CHAPTER 4: SAFETY VERIFICATION AND OPERATION

4.1. Task safety engineering personnel to prepare and coordinate test plans and procedures.

4.1.1. Test Safety and Test Safety Review Board.

4.1.2. Safety Tests.
 72                                                                SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


4.2. Operational and Space Safety.

4.2.1. System Safety roles and responsibilities in Systems Directorate and Program OSS&E.

4.2.1.1. Space Flight Worthiness Criteria.

4.2.1.2. Independent Readiness Review Team.

4.2.2. Plan operational and space safety tasks (list and schedule preparation of operational plans
and procedures, operating instructions, technical manuals, safety training inputs, emergency and
recovery procedures, mishap and anomaly reporting, corrective actions, continuous safety
improvement, collection and feedback of lessons learned into Systems Directorate and higher
processes, …).

4.2.3. Provide requirements for qualified people to accomplish the tasks (Weapons Safety
training, Space Safety training, Orbital Safety Officers, …)

4.2.4. Establish authority for implementing tasks through all levels.

4.2.5. Provide resources (manning and funding) to accomplish the tasks State requirements for
getting the operational community (range safety officers, operating wing Orbital Safety Officers,
customers and warfighters/system users) involved in the Systems Directorate programs’ System
Safety processes.


CHAPTER 5: OTHER/SPECIAL TOPICS

5.1. This chapter might include instructions for interfacing with external safety organizations
that may be dealt with on a fairly regular basis such as Nuclear Safety Activities, Non-nuclear
Munitions Safety Board, Air Transportation Logistics Agency, Range Safety or
operator/user/customer organizations.

Table A2.3. Sample Language for Statement of Objectives.

"Implement an environmental, system safety and health program from concept through disposal
that is in accordance with Department of Defense, Air Force, and SMC policy directives and
instructions, and also with federal, state, and local laws"


Table A2.4. Sample Language for Statement of Work.

“The Contractor shall develop and implement a preliminary System Safety Program Plan (SSPP)
for the Program. Contractor shall implement and conduct a Phase A appropriate environmental,
system safety and health program that supports the system life cycle from concept through
disposal and that is compliant with federal, state, and local environmental, safety, and health laws
and regulations and applicable Department of Defense, Air Force, and SMC policy directives and
instructions.
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                          73



“The contractor shall establish and implement a system safety engineering and management
program in accordance with MIL-STD-882C (Tailored), shown below,
and …”


Table A2.5. Preliminary Hazard Analysis.

  1. Subsystem/Operation: TT&C.
  2. Mission Phase: Pre-Launch Tests and Processing.


  Hazard       Hazard Level   Safety             Hazard           Verification      Status
  Cause        /Effect        Requirements       Control



  1. RF       1. Critical –   1. AFSPCMAN        1. Testing and   1. Review of      1. Open
  energy      Personnel       91-710 V3, Para.   maintenance      drawings, RF
  exceed      Injury          8.1.1.1, Radio     of RF            hat
  allowable                   Frequency          emitters is      attenuation
  personnel                   Emitters shall     accomplished     analysis, test,
  limits for                  be designed to     with antenna     and
  planned                     ensure that        hats installed   procedures.
  ground                      personnel are      to attenuate
  and                         not exposed to     the RF energy
  pre-launch                  hazardous          so that
  operations.                 energy levels in   personnel are
                              accordance with    not exposed
                              ANSI/IEEE          to average RF
                              C95.1, Safety      power density
                              Levels with        levels
                              Respect to         exceeding 10
                              Human              mw/cm2 in
                              Exposure           accordance
                              to Radio           with
                              Frequency          ANSI/IEEE
                              Electromagnetic    C95.1.
                              Fields.


Table A2.6. Hazard Control Report Form (Sample).
  SMC/SES                        HAZARD REPORT                      Hazard Report Number:_______
  System Safety Program                                             Date:______________________
  FROM:                          TO:                                ACTION ADDRESSEES:
  SYSTEM:                        COMPONENT:
74                                                                    SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011

 SYSTEM PHASE OR OPERATION:
 HAZARD DESCRIPTION (Outcome, mechanism and source)


 INVESTIGATION:




 SEVERITY: I II III IV     PROBABILITY:               A   B   C   D   E   INITIAL RISK INDEX:
 RECOMMENDED HAZARD CONTROL ACTION(S):




 RECOMMENDED VERIFICATIONS


 REFERENCE(S):
                                                                          TELEPHONE:
 INDIVIDUAL IDENTIFYING
 SITUATION:
 FINAL RESOLUTION and RISK
 INDEX:
                                  _____________________________
                                  HR REVIEW AUTHORITY (DATE)              USE ADDITIONAL SHEETS

                                                                          AS NECESSARY
 HAZARD RESOLVED & HR             PAGE 1 OF _______
 CLOSED:
                                  __________________________
                                  RISK ACCEPTANCE
                                  AUTHORITY
                                  (DATE)
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                       75


Table A2.7. Mishap Risk Assessment Matrix.




Mishap Risk Acceptance. The Mishap Risk Assessment Matrix (Table A2.7) above contains
mishap severity categories that are defined to provide a qualitative or quantitative measure of the
worst credible mishap from personnel error; environmental conditions; design inadequacies;
procedural deficiencies; or system, subsystem or component failure or malfunction. These
mishap severity categories provide guidance to a wide variety of programs. However, adaptation
to a particular program is generally required to provide a mutual understanding between the
Systems Directorate and their contractors as to the meaning of terms used in the category
definitions. The adaptation shall define what constitutes system loss, major or minor system or
environmental damage, and severe and minor injury and occupational illness.

The probability that a mishap risk will be created during the planned life expectancy of the
system can be described in potential occurrences per unit of time, events, population, items, or
activity. Assigning a quantitative mishap probability to a potential design or procedural mishap
risk is generally not possible early in the design process. A qualitative mishap risk probability
may be derived from research, analysis, and evaluation of historical safety data from similar
systems. Supporting rationale for assigning a mishap probability shall be documented in hazard
analysis reports.

As hazards are identified and assessed, it is important to make sure they enter the program risk
management process where mitigation plans would be tracked and monitored. The Probability
and Severity assessment should be mapped to the standard risk assessment criteria of Likelihood
and Consequence. (Possibly there would be a mapping for each hazard, rather than a single
mapping that applies to all hazards in the program.) Typically, hazard mitigation would have
impact on schedule and cost, so in the risk management process, a safety risk should appear as a
schedule and/or cost risk.
 76                                                             SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


Table A2.8. Mishap Probability Definition.


  Mishap Probability Definition

  Frequent            Likely to occur frequently in life of system, item, facility, etc.
                      Continuously experienced in fleet/ inventory. Probability of Occurrence:
                      X) > 10-1
  Probable            Will occur several times in life of item. Will occur frequently in
                      fleet/inventory. Probability of Occurrence: 10-1 > (X) > 10-2
  Occasional          Likely to occur sometime in life of item. Will occur several times in
                      fleet/inventory. Probability of Occurrence 10-2 > (X) > 10-3
  Remote              Unlikely but possible to occur in the life of an item. Unlikely, but can
                      reasonably be expected to occur in fleet or inventory. Probability of
                      Occurrence 10-3 > (X) > 10-6
  Improbable          So unlikely it can be assumed occurrence may not be experienced.
                      Unlikely to occur, but possible in fleet or inventory. Probability of
                      Occurrence 10-6 > (X)

Table A2.9. Mishap Severity Definition.


  Mishap Severity Definition

  Catastrophic        Death or permanent total disability, system loss, major property damage,
                      loss exceeding $1M, or irreversible severe environmental damage that
                      violates law or regulation.
  Critical            Permanent partial disability or temporary total disability in excess of
                      three months, major system damage, significant property damage Loss
                      exceeding $200K but less than $1M, or reversible environmental
                      damage causing a violation of law or regulation.
  Marginal            Minor injury, lost workday accident, or compensable injury/illness;
                      minor system or property damage, loss exceeding $10K but less than
                      $200K, or mitigable environmental damage without violation of law or
                      regulation where restoration activities can be accomplished.
  Negligible          First aid or minor supportive medical treatment, minor system
                      impairment. Could result in injury or illness not resulting in a lost work
                      day, loss less than $10K, minimal environmental damage not exceeding
                      law or regulation.

Table A2.10. Mishap Risk Acceptance Matrix.

  Mishap Risk Acceptance Matrix
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                       77



  Residual Mishap Risk           Mishap Risk                      Mishap Risk
  Assessment Value               Category                         Acceptance Level


  IA, IB, IC, IIA, IIB           High                             Milestone Decision
                                                                  Authority (PEO/MDA)


  ID, IIC, IIIA, IIIB            Serious                          Program Executive
                                                                  Officer (PEO)


  IE, IID, IIE, IIIC, IIID,      Medium                           Program Manager (PM) or
  IIIE, IVA, IVB                                                  Product Support Manager
                                                                  (PSM)



  IVC, IVD, IVE                  Low                              SSM/Chief Engineer
                                                                  Summary to PM or PSM

The above chart (Table A2.10) was created by SMC/SES to help the user assign risk to the
appropriate residual risk acceptance authority for SMC programs and projects. It has a direct
correlation to the Mishap Risk Assessment Matrix above for severity, probability and risk.

Table A2.11. Mishap Risk Assessment Matrix (NASA Sample).




The above chart is an example of the Mishap Risk Assessment Matrix from the NASA X40A
Phase 2 acquisition program.
 78                                                                SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


Table A2.12. Example Tailored MIL-STD-882C Task Lists: Satellite/Launch Vehicle (Ref.
for programs applying MIL-STD-882C).
      Example Tailored MIL-STD-882C Task List: Satellite/Launch Vehicle
      Task                 Tailoring
      Task 101 (System     Comply with all of Section 4. The qualification requirements of the
      Safety Program)      SSM shall be based on Table 3 for the program of high complexity.
                           Acceptable level of risk shall be based on Figure 2. The resolution of
                           residual risk shall be accomplished per the requirements of Figure 3.
                           System safety shall be included in the WBS.
      Task 102 (SSPP).     The SSPP shall be contractually binding when approved by the
                           Systems Directorate.
      Task 103             Apply entire task except 103.2.1 and 103.2.2.
      (Integration of
      Associate
      Contractors,
      Subcontractors and
      A&E Firms).
      (Assume prime
      and sub
      contractors).
      Task 104 (System     Contractor shall support all milestone reviews and audits.
      Safety Program
      Reviews).
      Task 105             The contractor shall be a technical advisor to the SSG. The contract
      (SSG/SSWG            shall support one SSG, a test review meeting and two other safety
      Support).            meetings per contract year. This support shall include briefing assigned
                           topics at these meetings and answering questions related to the system
                           safety effort.
      Task 106 (Hazard     The contractor shall maintain a hazard log of all hazards initially
      Tracking and Risk    ranked as a Category I, II or III (Catastrophic, Critical or Marginal)
      Resolution).         severity. These hazards shall be included in the Data Accession List
                           (DAL) and be accessible to the government.
      Task 107 (System     Prepare quarterly system safety reports as part of the Systems
      Safety Progress      Directorate’s Quarterly Review.
      Summary)
      Task 201 (PHL).   The contractor shall begin preparing the list NLT shortly after MS-A
                        approval. The list shall be completed by SRR.
      Task 202 (PHA).   All
      Task 203 (SR/CA). All
      Task 204 (SHA).   All
      Task 205 (SSHA). All
      Task 206          All
      (O&SHA).
      Task 207(HHA).    All (task will be discussed).
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                        79


   Task 301 (Safety     All
   Assessment).
   Task 302 (Test and   The contractor testing shall conform to OSHA, State, and Local Safety
   Evaluation Safety)   regulations.
   Task 303 (Safety     The contractor SSM shall notify the Systems Directorate within one
   Review of ECPs,      working day of identifying the change in the hazard severity or
   SCNs, SPRs, and      probability by one level or greater.
   Requests for
   Deviation/Waiver).
   Task 401 (Safety     All.
   Verification).
   Task 403 (EHC        Tailor 403.2.1 to include only the AF Explosive Hazard Classification
   Data).               Procedures. Delete 403.2.1.2.

Table A2.13. Example Tailored MIL-STD-882C Task List: Ground System (Ref. for
programs applying MIL-STD-882C).
   Example Tailored MIL-STD-882C Task List: Ground System
   Task                 Tailoring
                        Comply with all of Section 4. The qualification requirements of the
   Task 101 (System     SSM shall be based on Table 3 for the program of high complexity.
   Safety Program)      Acceptable level of risk shall be based on Figure 2. The resolution of
                        residual risk shall be accomplished per the requirements of Figure 3.
                        System safety shall be included in the WBS.
   Task 102 (SSPP).     The SSPP shall be contractually binding when approved by the
                        Systems Directorate.
   Task 103             Apply entire task except 103.2.1 and 103.2.2.
   (Integration of
   Associate
   Contractors,
   Subcontractors and
   A&E Firms).
   (Assume prime
   and
   subcontractors).
   Task 104 (System     Contractor shall support all milestone reviews and audits.
   Safety Program
   Reviews).
   Task 105             The contractor shall be a technical advisor to the SSG. The contract
   (SSG/SSWG            shall support one SSG, a test review meeting and two other safety
   Support).            meetings per contract year. This support shall include briefing assigned
                        topics at these meetings and answering questions related to the system
                        safety effort.
 80                                                               SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011


      Task 106 (Hazard    The contractor shall maintain a hazard log of all hazards initially
      Tracking and Risk   ranked as a Category I, II or III (Catastrophic, Critical or Marginal)
      Resolution).        severity. These hazards shall be included in the Data Accession List
                          (DAL) and be accessible to the government.
      Task 107 (System    Prepare quarterly system safety reports as part of the Systems
      Safety Progress     Directorate’s Quarterly Review.
      Summary)
      Task 201 (PHL).    The contractor shall begin preparing the list NLT shortly after MS-A
                         approval. The list shall be completed by SRR.
      Task 202 (PHA).    All
      Task 203 (SR/CA). All
      Task 204 (SHA).    All
      Task 205 (SSHA). All
      Task 206           All
      (O&SHA).
      Task 207(HHA).     All (task will be discussed).
      Task 301 (Safety   All
      Assessment).
      Task 302 (Test and The contractor testing shall conform to OSHA, State, and Local Safety
      Evaluation Safety) regulations.
      Task 303 (Safety   The contractor SSM shall notify the Systems Directorate within one
      Review of ECPs,    working day of identifying the change in the hazard severity or
      SCNs, SPRs, and    probability by one level.
      Requests for
      Deviation/Waiver).
      Task 401 (Safety   All
      Verification).

Table A2.14. Contractor Data Requirements Lists (CDRLs).

      Contractor Data Requirements Lists (CDRLs). Satellite/Launch Vehicle
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                       81



   System            Block 2 System Safety Program Plan
   Safety
   Program           Block 4 DI-SAFT-80100A
   Plan
   (information      Blocks 10, 12, and 13. See Block 16
   on 1423-1
   form)             Block 16. Blocks 10, 12 & 13. Initial submission with bid. Final initial
                     submission 30CD after contractor award. Updated preliminary versions
                     shall be submitted 30CD prior to each IPA and each design review.
                     Update final versions due 30CD after each IPA/design review.

                     Block 14. 1 copy to SMC Systems Directorate’s SSM and 1 copy to SMC/SE


   Mishap Risk       Block 2. Mishap Risk Assessment Report/ Missile Systems Pre-launch
   Assessment        Safety Package.
   Report
                     Block 4 DI-SAFT 81300A
   Part A:
   MSPSP/other       Blocks 10, 12, and 13. See Block 16
   range
   requirements.     Block 16. Preliminary submission 30CD prior to PDR, CDR and 90 CD
   Tailor            prior to shipment. Final submissions 45 CD after PDR, CDR and 30CD
   MSPSP to          prior to shipment.
   AFSPCMAN
   91-710            Block 14. 1 copy to SMC Systems Directorate’s SSM, 1 copy to SMC/SE,
   requirements.     and 1
                     copy to range safety.
   Part B: other
   than range
   requirements
   for entire life
   cycle.

   Ground System
   System        -Block 2 System Safety Program Plan
   Safety
   Program       -Block 4 DI-SAFT-80100A
   Plan
   (information -Blocks 10, 12, and 13. See Block 16
   on 1423-1
   form)         -Block 16. Blocks 10, 12 & 13. Initial submission with bid. Final initial
                 submission 30CD after contractor award. Updated preliminary versions
                 shall be submitted 30CD prior to each IPA and each design review.
                 Update final versions due 30CD after each IPA/design review.
 82                                                           SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011



                   -Block 14. 1 copy to SMC Systems Directorate’s SSM and 1 copy to
                   SMC/SE (same as for
                   satellite/launch vehicle program)
      Safety       -Block 2 Safety Assessment Report.
      Assessment   -Block 4 SI-SAFT-89182A
      Report       -Blocks 10, 12, and 13. See Block 16
      (SAR)        -Block 16. Preliminary submission 30CD prior to PDR and CDR. Final
                   submissions 30 CD after PDR and CDR.
                   -Block 14. 1 copy to SMC Systems Directorate’s SSM and 1 copy to
                   SMC/SE.

Table A2.15. Data Item Descriptions (DID) List and Data Accession List (DAL).
      DID Number             DID Title

      DI-SAFT-81626          System Safety Program Plan (SSPP)
      DI-SAFT-80101B         System Safety Hazard Analysis Report
      DI-SAFT-80102B         Safety Assessment Report
      DI-SAFT-80103B         Engineering Change Proposal System Safety Report
      DI-SAFT-80104B         Waiver or Deviation System Safety Report
      DI-SAFT-80105B         System Safety Program Progress Report
      DI-SAFT-80106B         Health Hazard Assessment Report
      DI-MISC-80508B         Technical Report – Study/Services
      DI-SAFT-80931B         Explosive Ordnance Disposal Data
      DI-SAFT-81065          Safety Studies Report
      DI-SAFT-81066          Safety Studies Plan
      DI-ADMN-81250A         Conference Minutes
      DI-SAFT-81299B         Explosive Hazard Classification Data
      DI-SAFT-81300A         Mishap Risk Assessment Report
      DI-ILSS-81495          Failure Mode Effects, and Criticality Analysis Report

Table A2.16. Data Item Descriptions And MIL-STD-882C Tasks Matrix (Ref. for
programs applying MIL-STD-882C).
      DID No.               DID Description             Tasks Supported

      DI-SAFT-80100A        System Safety Program       101 - System Safety Program
                            Plan                        102 -System Safety Program Plan

      DI-SAFT-80101A        System Safety Hazard        201 - Preliminary Hazard List
                            Analysis Report             202 - Preliminary Hazard Analysis
                                                        203 - Safety Requirements/Criteria
                                                        Analysis

                                                        204 - Subsystem Hazard Analysis
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                                83


                                                     205 - System Hazard Analysis
                                                     206 - Operating and Support Hazard
                                                     Analysis

   DI-SAFT-80102A         Safety Assessment Report   301 - Safety Assessment
                                                     401 - Safety Verification
                                                     402 - Safety Compliance Assessment

   DI-SAFT-80103A         Engineering Change         303 - Safety Review of Engineering
                          Proposal                   Change Proposals, Specification
                          System Safety Report       Change Notices, Software Problem
                                                     Reports, and Requests for
                                                     Deviation/Waiver

   DI-SAFT-80104A         Waiver of Deviation        303 - Safety Review of Engineering
                          System Safety Report       Change Proposals, Specification
                                                     Change Notices, Software Problem
                                                     Reports, and Requests for
                                                     Deviation/Waiver

   DI-SAFT-80105A         System Safety Program      106 - Hazard Tracking and Risk
                          Progress Report            Resolution

                                                     107 - System Safety Progress
                                                     Summary
                                                     207 - Health Hazard Assessment

   DI-SAFT-80931          Explosive Ordinance        404 - Explosive Ordnance Disposal
                          Disposal Data              Data

   DI-SAFT-81299          Explosive Hazard           403 - Explosive Hazard Classification
                          Classification Data        and Characteristics Data

   DI-SAFT-81300          Mishap Risk Assessment     Multiple Tasks
                          Report


Table A2.17. MIL-STD-882C Tasks and Data Item Descriptions Matrix. (Ref. for
programs applying MIL-STD-882C).
   Task Description          DID No.                        DID Description

   101 - System Safety       DI-SAFT-80100A                 System Safety Program Plan
   Program

   102 - System Safety       DI-SAFT-80100A                 System Safety Program Plan
   Program Plan
84                                                SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011



     103 -                       DI-SAFT-80100A   System Safety Program Plan
     Integration/Management
     of Associate Contractors,
     Subcontractors, and
     Architect and Engineering
     Firms

     104 - System Safety         DI-SAFT-80105A   System Safety Program
     Program Reviews/ Audits                      Progress Report

     105 -System Safety          As per CDRL      As per CDRL
     Group/System Safety
     Working Group Support

     106 - Hazard Tracking and DI-SAFT-80105A     System Safety Program
     Risk Resolution                              Progress Report

     107 - System Safety         DI-SAFT-80105A   System Safety Program
     Progress Summary                             Progress Report

     201 - Preliminary Hazard    DI-SAFT-80101A   System Safety Hazard
     List                                         Analysis Report

     202 - Preliminary Hazard    DI-SAFT-80101A   System Safety Hazard
     Analysis                                     Analysis Report

     203 - Safety                DI-SAFT-80101A   System Safety Hazard
     Requirements/Criteria                        Analysis Report
     Analysis

     204 - Subsystem Hazard      DI-SAFT-80101A   System Safety Hazard
     Analysis                                     Analysis Report

     205 - System Hazard         DI-SAFT-80101A   System Safety Hazard
     Analysis                                     Analysis Report

     206 - Operating and         DI-SAFT-80101A   System Safety Hazard
     Support Hazard Analysis                      Analysis Report

     207 - Health Hazard         DI-SAFT-80106A   Health Hazard Assessment
     Assessment                                   Report

     301 - Safety Assessment     DI-SAFT-80102A   Safety Assessment Report

     302 - Test and Evaluation   As per CDRL      As per CDRL
SMCI 63-1205 28 JUNE 2011                                                  85


   Safety

   303 - Safety Review of      DI-SAFT-80103A   Engineering Change Proposal
   Engineering Change                           System Safety Report
   Proposals, Specification
   Change Notices, Software    DI-SAFT-80104A   Waiver of Deviation System
   Problem Reports, and                         Safety Report
   Requests for
   Deviation/Waiver

   401 - Safety Verification   DI-SAFT-80102A   Safety Assessment Report

   402 - Safety Compliance     DI-SAFT-80102A   Safety Assessment Report
   Assessment

   403 - Explosive Hazard      DI-SAFT-81299    Explosive Hazard
   Classification and                           Classification Data
   Characteristics Data

   404 - Explosive Ordnance    DI-SAFT-80931    Explosive Ordnance Disposal
   Disposal Data                                Data

   Mishap Risk Assessment      DI-SAFT-81300    Mishap Risk Assessment
   (App. A, Para 50.5)                          Report
