BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                          SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEM CENTER
SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEM CENTER                                                                  INSTRUCTION 63-102
                                                                                                              7 SEPTEMBER 2006
                                                                                                Certified Current 4 November 2011
                                                                                                                        Acquisition

                                                                                   SPACE ACQUISITION BOARD PROCESS



                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:              Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                            www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SMC/PIDI                                                                   Certified by: SMC/PID (Mr. Steve Soderquist)
Supersedes SMCI 63-102, 31 Aug 04                                                                                 Pages: 29

This instruction is applicable to DoD space Major Defense Acquisition Programs (MDAPs) and also
implements National Security Space (NSS) Acquisition Policy 03-01 (Ref: 8.1.) for Department of
Defense (DoD) Space non-Major Defense Acquisition Programs (non-MDAPs; Acquisition Category
(ACAT) II and III systems) in the portfolio of the Air Force Program Executive Officer for Space
(AFPEO/SP).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication incorporates three major changes, including a revised and consolidated section on pro-
gram decision points that combines former paragraphs 7. and 8. (Ref: 5.), a revised and reorganized Inde-
pendent Program Assessment (IPA) Activity Process Timeline Overview and IPA Activity section that
takes into account lessons learned from recent activities (Ref: Figure A2.1. and A2.3.) and the addition of
the new Space Acquisition Document Matrix in Attachment 5. Updates were made to reflect Under Sec-
retary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology & Logistics) (USD(AT&L)) retention of Milestone Decision
Authority (MDA) and the elimination of the IPAT Member Database. Program office responsibilities
were clarified (Ref: 4.2.9.-4.2.11.). Also, a number of minor changes and additions were made through-
out this instruction in response to lessons learned, including a mandate for all programs to have an Acqui-
sition Strategy and clarification regarding Space and Missile System Center (SMC) involvement with
MDAPs.
      1.      Policy: ........................................................................................................................   3
      2.      Authority: ...................................................................................................................     3
      3.      Applicability: .............................................................................................................       3
      4.      Roles and Responsibilities: ........................................................................................               3
      5.      Program Decision Points: ..........................................................................................                7
      6.      Space Acquisition Boards: .........................................................................................                8
2                                                                                       SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006


    7.   Waivers and Exemptions: ..........................................................................................              9
    8.   References: .................................................................................................................    9

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          11

Attachment 2— PEO SPACE ACQUISITION BOARD PROCESS                                                                                        13

Attachment 3— DESCRIPTION AND MILESTONE DECISION AUTHORITY
           FOR DOD SPACE PROGRAMS                                                                                                        22

Attachment 4— SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE DSAB AND
           PSAB PROCESS                                                                                                                  23

Attachment 5— SPACE ACQUISITION DOCUMENT MATRIX                                                                                          24
SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                            3


1. Policy: This SMC Instruction provides guidance on:
   1.1. Establishing the Program Executive Officer (PEO) Space Acquisition Board (PSAB) as the Mile-
   stone Decision process for DoD Space non-MDAPs.
   1.2. Implementation of IPAs for space programs in the portfolio of the AFPEO/SP to assist in “con-
   sistent and disciplined” acquisition decisions for procuring non-MDAPs and ensuring mission success
   as the first guiding principle.
   1.3. SMC roles and responsibilities regarding the Defense Space Acquisition Board (DSAB)

2. Authority: 10 United States Code (USC) 2430 (Ref: 8.2.) gives the formal definition of an MDAP.
USD(AT&L) is the DoD Space MDA for all DoD Space MDAPs. MDA authority has been delegated to
the AFPEO/SP for Air Force Space non-MDAPs (Ref: 8.3.). A partial exemption and waiver has been
granted to the processes and procedures described in DoDI 5000.2 (Ref: 8.4.), to the extent that the sub-
ject matter is under the jurisdiction of the USD(AT&L), for all programs in the AFPEO/SP portfolio (Ref:
8.5.). The DoD Space MDA waiver authority does not include DoDD 5000.1 (Ref: 8.6.) or other DoD
directives. Granting this waiver facilitates implementation of the streamlined space acquisition process
described in NSS 03-01 for all current AFPEO/SP programs as well as future space acquisition programs
executed under the authority of the AFPEO/SP. NSS 03-01 supports keeping the MDA at the lowest level
possible. Attachment 3 contains the description and decision authority for MDAPs and non-MDAPs,
and the delegation criteria.

3. Applicability: This instruction implements NSS 03-01 for all DoD space MDAPs and non-MDAPs,
including geographically separated programs, executed under the authority of the AFPEO/SP, and for
space non-MDAPs establishes the PSAB as a complementary process to the DSAB. DoD space acquisi-
tion programs are defined in section 3.1 of NSS 03-01. For space acquisitions acquired in accordance
with NSS 03-01 for which the MDA is the AFPEO/SP or his delegate, a PSAB will be convened and an
IPA and independent cost analysis, as outlined in this instruction, will be used to determine whether the
program progresses to the next NSS acquisition phase. With prior MDA approval, the PSAB-IPA can be
waived or tailored to account for unique features of the program. Special Access Programs, as defined by
10 USC 2430, are not covered by NSS 03-01 and are exempted from this policy.

4. Roles and Responsibilities:
   4.1. Milestone Decision Authority: USD(AT&L) is the decision authority for the DSAB, while the
   AFPEO/SP or designee (Ref: 8.7.) is the decision authority for the PSAB. MDA roles and responsi-
   bilities for MDAP programs are given in NSS 03-01, AP2.2.6. The MDA for non-MDAP programs
   will:
       4.1.1. Approve the final scope and any tailoring of the PSAB process.
       4.1.2. Appoint the IPA and independent cost analysis leads.
       4.1.3. Chair the PSAB.
       4.1.4. Issue the Acquisition Decision Memorandum (ADM).
       4.1.5. Be the Waiver Decision Authority for the PSAB-IPA.
   4.2. System Program Office and Joint Program Office: The System Program Director (SPD)/Program
   Manager (PM) is responsible for the program under review. SPDs/PMs will:
4                                                                   SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006


       4.2.1. Keep the MDA, through the SMC Acquisition Center of Excellence (ACE), informed on
       upcoming IPA related meetings and activities.
       4.2.2. Identify assessment requirements and recommend tailoring of the DSAB/PSAB process
       through SMC ACE to the MDA for approval.
       4.2.3. Develop and obtain approval for the Acquisition Strategy before sending the DSAB/PSAB
       Request Letter.
       4.2.4. For all Key Decision Points (KDPs), prepare and provide a formal Integrated Program
       Summary (IPS) at the start of the IPA (Ref: NSS 03-01, AP4.2 and E5).
       4.2.5. Provide a point of contact to support the Independent Program Assessment Team (IPAT)
       and Independent Cost Analysis Team (ICAT), as required (Ref: A2.3. and A2.4.).
       4.2.6. Develop the draft ADM with SMC ACE support and provide recommendations to the IPAT
       Lead and MDA for the next phase. These recommendations should provide a clear rationale for
       supporting KDP completion and continuation to the next phase. This draft ADM must be
       pre-coordinated through at least the program 2-letter offices and SMC staff (Systems Acquisition
       functionals, Contracting, Comptroller, Judge Advocate, System Safety, Logistics), preferably in
       conjunction with the Acquisition Strategy Panel, and given to the IPAT at the start of the IPA.
       4.2.7. Update the Acquisition Strategy after KDP completion to facilitate the solicitation process.
       4.2.8. Define and track entry and exit criteria for each KDP, including those deferred for later
       completion (Ref: NSS 03-01, E1).
       4.2.9. Provide and coordinate signing of appropriate non-disclosure agreement (NDA) and orga-
       nizational conflict of interest (OCI) documentation by IPAT.
       4.2.10. Coordinate any security arrangements for the IPA.
       4.2.11. Provide a list of stakeholders and end-user representatives.
    4.3. SMC Acquisition Center of Excellence: The SMC ACE is the PSAB Executive Secretariat, pro-
    viding expertise to the AFPEO/SP for advice and review on the space acquisition process. At the
    request of the DSAB Executive Secretariat (NSSO/PID), SMC ACE is the focal point, along with the
    Program Office, for facilitating DSAB related activities and coordinating with the office of the Secre-
    tary of the Air Force (SAF/USA) on space acquisition policies and related guidance (Ref: 8.8.). As
    the PSAB Executive Secretariat and the DSAB-IPA Facilitator, SMC ACE will:
       4.3.1. Manage the PSAB IPA process.
       4.3.2. Develop, maintain, and support DSAB/PSAB/IPA related process handbooks and training
       materials for the Program Offices.
       4.3.3. Manage the program assessment team nomination process.
       4.3.4. Standardize, maintain, and support the IPA Tool, which is a database application used by
       team members to capture and document information during their assessment.
       4.3.5. Use, support, and maintain a robust DSAB/PSAB lessons learned program.
       4.3.6. Maintain and provide access to the DSAB/PSAB IPA electronic historical files.
       4.3.7. Track PSAB action items (the DSAB Secretariat tracks DSAB action items).
SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                              5


  4.4. Independent Program Assessment Team Lead: Generally, IPA operation is the same for both
  DSABs and PSABs. For non-MDAPs, the IPAT Lead is selected within thirty days of receiving the
  final PSAB Request Letter (Ref: A2.3.3.), and is formally announced in the MDA Call for PSAB Let-
  ter (Ref: A2.3.5.). The IPA becomes the IPAT Lead’s primary duty for the duration of the IPA and
  continues through the final PSAB briefing. USD(AT&L) selects the IPAT Lead for DSABs, while the
  AFPEO/SP, or his designated representative, selects the IPAT Lead for PSABs. The IPAT Lead for a
  non-MDAP shall be an O-6, O-6 select, or civilian equivalent, with previous program management
  experience and appropriate acquisition training and certification. To support a PSAB, the IPAT Lead
  will:
     4.4.1. Select the IPAT members.
     4.4.2. Exercise management and organization control over the IPAT.
     4.4.3. Be the final authority on the IPAT’s findings and recommendations.
     4.4.4. Develop a detailed IPA agenda/schedule in conjunction with the SMC ACE program
     assessment branch.
     4.4.5. Develop the Key Requirements Matrix (KRM) and Key Requirements Items (KRIs) to
     assess the program under evaluation.
     4.4.6. Identify necessary documents from the Program Office and SMC ACE for IPAT review.
     4.4.7. Conduct the IPA in conjunction with the SMC ACE program assessment branch.
     4.4.8. Develop and present the DSAB/PSAB briefing.
  4.5. Independent Program Assessment Facilitator: The IPA Facilitator will be identified by the SMC
  ACE program assessment branch and will not be associated with the program undergoing the IPA.
  The IPA Facilitator will:
     4.5.1. Provide PSAB IPAT member nomination candidates for the IPAT Lead’s consideration.
     4.5.2. Provide orientation and training on the IPA processes and local SMC implementation pro-
     cedures to IPAT.
     4.5.3. Work with the Program Office undergoing review to identify requirements for administra-
     tive support, logistics, resources, and facilities to conduct a successful IPA.
     4.5.4. Provide full administrative support to the IPAT and IPAT Lead.
     4.5.5. Work with SMC ACE and the Program Office to arrange for secure facilities and handle
     security clearances.
     4.5.6. Prepare and distribute the read-ahead package before the PSAB meeting.
  4.6. Independent Program Assessment Team Members: The IPAT Lead selects IPAT members based
  on their expertise and knowledge of acquisition and the program being evaluated. The IPAT Lead is
  encouraged, but not required, to select the team membership from the SMC IPAT Member Database.
  The team member nominees shall have appropriate program experiences for their role in the IPAT and
  appropriate acquisition certification and training in the field they represent. Based on the needs of the
  specific program, a typical IPAT will have a core team of fulltime members, designated by the IPAT
  Lead, and additional members, such as stakeholder representatives and Subject Matter Experts
  (SMEs), who serve on a part time basis as needed. All IPAT members must:
6                                                                  SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006


       4.6.1. Conduct an unbiased review of the program under evaluation.
       4.6.2. Dedicate their effort solely to the IPAT while it is convened; all IPAT members shall be
       released from their normal duties while serving on an IPA.
       4.6.3. Abide by all non-disclosure agreements and conflict of interest rules and be sensitive to any
       Program Office source selection activities.
    4.7. IPAT Stakeholder Representatives: Organizations that operate, use, or otherwise have a stake in
    the success of the program may provide personnel to participate in the IPAT. Stakeholder representa-
    tives shall:
       4.7.1. Bring to the IPA specific issues and concerns from their organization.
       4.7.2. Brief their organization and leadership on IPA specific findings.
       4.7.3. Participate in IPAT discussions as needed.
       4.7.4. Maintain confidentiality of IPA data until conclusion of the DSAB/PSAB.
    4.8. Subject Matter Experts: The SMEs provide in-depth knowledge of a particular functional area,
    such as contracting, launch activities, acquisition systems protection, logistics, system engineering,
    test and evaluation, system safety, and so forth. The SME will:
       4.8.1. Identify concerns, issues, and questions concerning their specific area to the IPA Lead
       before the start of the IPA and proactively identify any other issues as soon as possible during the
       IPA for adequate discussion and resolution.
       4.8.2. Participate in IPAT discussions as needed.
       4.8.3. Support the development of the DSAB/PSAB briefing section covering their respective
       area of expertise.
       4.8.4. Provide “lessons learned” inputs to the IPAT to improve the process.
    4.9. SMC/FM: The AFPEO/SP’s focal point for independent cost analysis activity, SMC/FM is
    responsible for preparing Independent Cost Assessments (ICAs) and Independent Cost Estimates
    (ICEs) (Ref: NSS 03-01 AP3.0). SMC/FM will:
       4.9.1. Ascertain and recommend the scope of the independent cost analysis to the MDA.
       4.9.2. Manage the cost assessment team nomination process and maintain a database of qualified
       functional experts and ICAT Leads to support PSAB-IPAs.
       4.9.3. Maintain the local independent cost analysis process for ACAT II & III programs.
       4.9.4. Identify cost team facilities, equipment, and schedule requirements to SMC ACE.
       4.9.5. Select the ICAT Lead for PSABs.
       4.9.6. Recommend a qualified financial expert to the IPA core team membership.
    4.10. Independent Cost Analysis Team Lead: For DSABs, the Office of the Secretary of Defense
    (OSD) Cost Analysis Improvement Group (CAIG) selects the ICAT Lead; for PSABs, SMC/FM
    makes the selection. The PSAB ICAT Lead will:
       4.10.1. Be the primary liaison with the IPAT.
SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                          7


       4.10.2. Coordinate ICAT independent technical and risk cost assessment with the IPAT to ensure
       open communication and determine consistency.
       4.10.3. Provide the IPAT with an unbiased program cost estimate and an assessment of whether
       the program can be executed within the approved funding profile.
       4.10.4. Work with the Program Office Estimate (POE) team to reconcile the POE and ICA/ICE.
       4.10.5. Present ICAT results at the various meetings, including the PSAB and all pre-briefs as
       required by the MDA.
       4.10.6. Select and manage the ICAT members.
   4.11. Independent Cost Analysis Team Members: ICAT members should be experienced cost estima-
   tors. An ICAT member cannot also be a member of the IPAT. The ICAT members will:
       4.11.1. Provide the IPAT and the MDA with a review of proposed program costs.
       4.11.2. Include an independent technical assessment of the technical cost baseline and assump-
       tions to quantify program cost risk.
       4.11.3. Secure commitment from their organization and supervisor allowing them to perform
       required ICAT duties.

5. Program Decision Points: These include KDPs; Build Approval, Follow-on Buy, and Post Produc-
tion Upgrades for Small Quantity Systems and Low Rate Initial and Full Rate Production decisions for
Large Quantity Systems, all of which are detailed in the following paragraphs:
   5.1. Key Decision Points: These are described in NSS 03-01, 5.3.2 and AP1.2.
   5.2. Build Approval for non-MDAPs: This is described in NSS 03-01, 5.3.3 and AP1.2.8. The Build
   Approval is an MDA program review, not a KDP, although the meeting will be preceded by an IPA
   and requires an ICA or ICE. The Build Approval IPAT and ICAT teams will follow the same time-
   lines and guidelines established for PSABs (Ref: A2.3. & A2.4.).
   5.3. Follow On Buy Approval Decision Meeting: This is described in NSS 03-01, AP1.1.1.1.
   5.4. Post Production Upgrade Decision for non-MDAPs: At minimum, a POE shall be done to scope
   the cost of the upgrade. For a non-MDAP Post Production Upgrade whose total research, develop-
   ment, test and evaluation (RDT&E) and production cost exceeds $140M (in FY00 dollars) of an
   approved space system baseline, the SPD/PM, through the PSAB Executive Secretariat, will request a
   PSAB or a waiver to a PSAB from the MDA (Ref: 7.). The MDA shall decide which KDP the
   upgrade will be required to meet in order to begin the acquisition process. The SPD/PM may not ini-
   tiate any actions to accomplish the upgrade prior to MDA determination of the KDP for which to pre-
   pare or MDA approval of a waiver to the PSAB. For non-MDAP Post Production Upgrades whose
   total RDT&E and production costs are below $140M (in FY00 dollars) of an approved space system
   baseline, a PSAB is not required but the MDA shall decide which KDP the upgrade will be required
   to meet in order to begin the acquisition process. The SPD/PM may not initiate any actions to accom-
   plish the upgrade prior to MDA determination of the KDP for which to prepare or MDA approval of
   a waiver to any PSAB.
   5.5. Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP) Decision for non-MDAPs: Described in NSS 03-01,
   AP1.1.2. Although not a KDP, the LRIP Decision meeting will usually be preceded by an IPA and
8                                                                   SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006


    requires an ICA or ICE. The LRIP Decision IPAT and ICAT teams will follow the same timelines
    and guidelines established for PSABs (Ref: A2.3. & A2.4.).
    5.6. Full Rate Production (FRP) Decision for non-MDAPs: Described in NSS 03-01, AP1.1.2. Even
    though the FRP decision point is not depicted as a KDP, a PSAB, preceded by an IPA and either an
    ICA or an ICE, will be held. At some predetermined point enough items will be deployed to allow
    declaration of Full Operational Capability (FOC).

6. Space Acquisition Boards: A DSAB or PSAB is a key part of the overall DoD Space acquisition pro-
cess and is conducted at each KDP and Build Approval, and optionally the LRIP and FRP decision points,
to evaluate a program’s readiness to proceed into the next acquisition phase. For space programs utilizing
the large quantity production model (Ref: NSS 03-01 AP1.1.2) a DSAB/PSAB will be held at the LRIP
and FRP decision points. The MDA convenes a DSAB/PSAB to obtain advice and information necessary
to support his decision whether or not to proceed into the next acquisition phase. An MDA decision to
proceed authorizes the PM to perform appropriate activities in accordance with the approved Acquisition
Strategy and ADM. The IPA and independent cost analysis are key preparatory activities for a DSAB/
PSAB. Details on these activities, as they relate to DSABs, are described in NSS 03-01 AP2 and AP3; for
PSABs, see paragraphs A2.3. and A2.4. of this instruction. Attachment 4 summarizes the differences
between a DSAB and a PSAB.
    6.1. Defense Space Acquisition Board: The DSAB is the MDAP acquisition review board and is
    chaired by the DoD Space MDA as the sole decision maker. DSAB principals are advisors and repre-
    sentatives of entities who have a material interest in the program under consideration. Their role is to
    act in an advisory capacity to the DoD Space MDA. Consult NSS 03-01 AP2 for more detail.
    6.2. PEO Space Acquisition Board: The PSAB is AFPEO/SP’s tailored version of the DSAB, per
    NSS 03-01, which allows establishment of local acquisition practices for non-MDAPs. AFPEO/SP is
    the MDA for non-MDAPs but has redelegated this authority to the Vice Commander, Space and Mis-
    sile Systems Center (SMC/CV) and to the Executive Director (SMC/CD) (Ref: 8.7.). The Vice Com-
    mander and the Executive Director will exercise these authorities in coordination with AFPEO/SP.
    These redelegations do not affect AFPEO/SP authority to exercise (retain) any of the redelegated
    authorities, or to issue instructions concerning the exercise of those authorities. The IPAT Lead, with
    the support of the ICAT Lead and IPA Facilitator, shall present the IPAT finding and recommendation
    to the MDA at the PSAB. The MDA chairs and is the sole decision maker for the PSAB.
    Non-MDAPs cover a wide range of size and scope and must be tailored on an individual basis.
    Attachment 3 also provides guidelines on when a PSAB is required. The MDA will determine the
    scope of the program review and may direct other Space programs executed by the MDA to partici-
    pate in the IPA process. Attachment 2 of this instruction provides detailed information on the PSAB
    process. The standing members of the PSAB are listed in paragraphs 6.2.1. - 6.2.13., below. Note that
    a delegate may be sent; however, said delegate must be of the appropriate executive level, and capable
    of contributing to a meeting at the AFPEO/SP level.
       6.2.1. MDA.
       6.2.2. SMC/PK.
       6.2.3. SMC/FM.
       6.2.4. SMC/JA.
       6.2.5. SMC/AX.
SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                             9


       6.2.6. SMC/LG.
       6.2.7. SMC/SE.
       6.2.8. SMC ACE.
       6.2.9. SMC Chief Engineer.
       6.2.10. President, Aerospace Corp.
       6.2.11. PSAB Executive Secretariat.
       6.2.12. At least one SPD, external to the program under review.
       6.2.13. User or stakeholder representatives

7. Waivers and Exemptions: PSAB Executive Secretariat will assist in processing waivers and exemp-
tions to this instruction. Normally, the SPD/PM shall send waiver requests no later than two weeks before
they would send a PSAB Intention Letter (Ref: A2.3.1.). In addition to the waiver package, the MDA
may convene a waiver board, during which the Program Office will be required to present the results of
the Program Office’s assessment and the cost estimate to the MDA. The waiver board membership shall
be the same as the PSAB membership, minus the IPAT Lead and IPA Facilitator. The coordination for
the waiver request shall include all the members of the waiver board. The granting of any waiver is typi-
cally based on the following considerations: nature of the program, program executability, requirements
stability, stability of technology, program risk, program complexity, total program cost, program inter-
faces, Program Office manning, and MDA special interest. The waiver staff summary package shall
include:
   7.1. The waiver or tailoring request letter, stating the program decision point to be waived or aspects
   of PSAB to be tailored and the rationale.
   7.2. A program assessment conducted by the Program Office on each of the IPS areas listed in NSS
   03-01, Table AP4.1.
   7.3. Certification of completion for all required program decision point documents per NSS 03-01,
   E2.
   7.4. If appropriate, the cost estimate results certified and validated by SMC/FMC.
   7.5. Draft ADM for MDA’s signature.

8. References:
   8.1. National Security Space Acquisition Policy 03-01, “Guidance for DoD Space System Acquisi-
   tion Process,” 27 Dec 2004.
   8.2. Title 10 United States Code 2430.
   8.3. USecAF memo on “Delegation of Authorities to the AFPEO for Space,” 22 Apr 2002.
   8.4. DoD Instruction 5000.2, “Operation of the Defense Acquisition System,” 12 May 2003.
   8.5. USecAF memo on “Exemption and Waiver to DoDI 5000.2 and related Guidance for Air Force
   Program Executive Officer for Space (AFPEO/SP) Space Programs,” 20 Mar 2003.
   8.6. DoDD 5000.1, “The Defense Acquisition System,” 12 May 2003.
10                                                             SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006


     8.7. AFPEO/SP memo on “Redelegation of Specific Contracting Authorities,” 12 Feb 2006.
     8.8. MOU “IPA Activities between SMC ACE and NSSO/PID,” 22 Apr 2004.



                                             MICHAEL A. HAMEL, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                             Air Force Program Executive Officer for Space
SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006                                     11


                                     Attachment 1

           GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


ACAT         Acquisition Category
ACE          Acquisition Center of Excellence
ADM          Acquisition Decision Memorandum
AFPEO/SP     Air Force Program Executive Officer for Space
APB          Acquisition Program Baseline
CAIG         Cost Analysis Improvement Group
CARD         Cost Analysis Requirements Description
DoD          Department of Defense
DSAB         Defense Space Acquisition Board
FFRDC        Federally Funded Research and Development Center
FOC          Full Operational Capability
FRP          Full Rate Production
FY           fiscal year
ICA          Independent Cost Assessment
ICAT         Independent Cost Analysis Team
ICE          Independent Cost Estimate
IPA          Independent Program Assessment
IPAT         Independent Program Assessment Team
IPR          in-progress review
IPS          Integrated Program Summary
KDP          Key Decision Point
KRI          Key Requirements Item
KRM          Key Requirements Matrix
LRIP         Low Rate Initial Production
MDA          Milestone Decision Authority
MDAP         Major Defense Acquisition Programs
NDA          non-disclosure agreement
NSS          National Security Space
OCI          organizational conflict of interest
OSD          Office of the Secretary of Defense
PM           Program Manager
PEO          Program Executive Officer
12                                                        SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006


POE         Program Office Estimate
PSAB        PEO Space Acquisition Board
RDT&E       research, development, test and evaluation
SETA        System Engineering and Technical Assistance
SMC         Space and Missile System Center
SME         Subject Matter Expert
SPD         System Program Director
SPO         System Program Office
TDY         temporary duty
TRD         Technical Requirements Document
USC         United States Code
USD(AT&L)   Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics)
USecAF      Under Secretary of the Air Force
SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                             13


                                            Attachment 2

                         PEO SPACE ACQUISITION BOARD PROCESS

A2.1. Overview of the PSAB Process: The overall PSAB-IPA process is depicted in Figure A2.1..

Figure A2.1. Notional IPA Activity Process Timeline Overview (working days)




   A2.1.1. The SPD/PM kicks off the pre-PSAB activities by sending out the PSAB Intention Letter
   (Ref: A2.3.1.), with the Technical Requirements Document (TRD) and preliminary cost data, to
   inform SMC ACE of the Program Office’s intention to undergo a PSAB.
   A2.1.2. SMC ACE schedules the PSAB, conducts training for Program Office personnel, and gives
   the attached cost data to SMC/FM, who initiate the independent cost analysis.
   A2.1.3. The Program Office develops their IPS and works with the ICAT to refine their Cost Analysis
   Requirements Description (CARD) and POE.
   A2.1.4. The formal PSAB process begins when the SPD/PM sends the PSAB Request Letter (Ref:
   A2.3.3.) to AFPEO/SP, who will acknowledge with a MDA Call for PSAB Letter (Ref: A2.3.5.).
   A2.1.5. The IPAT is selected (Ref: A2.3.6.5.) and the scope of the IPA established (Ref: A2.3.7.).
14                                                                   SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006


     A2.1.6. The IPA activities kick off with an Orientation (Ref: A2.3.9.) where the Program Office
     delivers their final IPS and pre-coordinated draft ADM (Ref: A2.2.3.).
     A2.1.7. The ICAT delivers their preliminary findings to the IPA (Ref: A2.3.10.) and their final results
     at the SPD Courtesy Pre-Brief (Ref: A2.3.11.).
     A2.1.8. The IPA findings are briefed to the MDA at the PSAB (Ref: A2.3.12.).
     A2.1.9. After completion of the PSAB, an ADM is issued by the AFPEO/SP, documenting the deci-
     sions of the PSAB (Ref: A2.3.13.).

A2.2. Program Office Activity.
     A2.2.1. Pre-IPA Activity: The Program Office’s primary duty is to produce the IPS (Ref: A2.2.3.) and
     help coordinate various IPA activities. The Program Office will:
        A2.2.1.1. Coordinate with the program contracting officer and SMC/JA to ensure all organiza-
        tional conflict of interest and non-disclosure statements are available for the IPAT and ICAT.
        A2.2.1.2. Recommend to SMC ACE the security clearance level of briefings.
        A2.2.1.3. Budget sufficient resources to comply with the requirements of this instruction. All
        administrative costs associated with the IPA and independent cost analysis are the responsibility
        of the SPD/PM whose program is under review. PSAB costs will vary with the composition of the
        IPAT, the major expense being travel.
        A2.2.1.4. Designate a Program Office IPA Liaison and coordinate with the IPA Facilitator to pro-
        vide necessary administrative, logistics, resources and facilities support to the IPA.
     A2.2.2. IPA Support: During the IPA, the Program Office will:
        A2.2.2.1. Ensure key personnel are available to provide information.
        A2.2.2.2. Present a Program Office overview briefing during the IPAT Orientation.
        A2.2.2.3. Provide the documentation, informational briefings, and other relevant data required by
        the IPAT and ICAT.
        A2.2.2.4. Support the IPAT with coordination meetings to answer questions, clarify issues, fill
        information gaps, and eliminate potential misunderstandings.
     A2.2.3. Integrated Program Summary: The IPS is a collection of various program documents that are
     produced and tracked during the course of the program’s life cycle, packaged together as a concise
     record to document a program’s accomplishments, status, and plans at each program decision point.
     The Program Office shall generate and maintain the IPS per NSS 03-01 AP4.2 and E5. When assem-
     bling the IPS, the Program Office must ensure that the data provided is clear, complete, and relevant.
     In addition, the IPS must be well organized with all data clearly labeled and placed in the appropriate
     folder. The final IPS will be delivered at the IPA Orientation (Ref: A2.3.9.), as the IPAT uses the IPS
     as the starting point for the IPA review. The Program Office is permitted to make real time changes to
     the IPS, if required due to concurrent program reviews, etc. The SPD/PM can request tailoring to the
     IPS requirements in the PSAB intention letter with the degree of tailoring dependent on program size
     and other factors.
     A2.2.4. Acquisition Program Baseline: The Acquisition Program Baseline (APB) for MDAPs is
     described in NSS 03-01, A4.1.3. All non-MDAPs in the AFPEO/SP portfolio shall have an APB or
SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                             15


   equivalent. The KDP-A ADM shall serve as the APB for Phase A; for Phase B a draft APB must be
   ready for KDP-B review and approval. The APB will be updated and approved at KDP-C for Phase
   C and D activities. SMC/FM shall develop guidance and procedures on APB contents and formats
   tailored to non-MDAP programs. The PM and SMC/FM shall coordinate on APBs for non-MDAPs.
       A2.2.4.1. Program Deviation: A program deviation occurs when the SPD/PM has reason to
       believe that the current estimate for the program indicates that a performance, schedule, or cost
       threshold value will not be achieved. The SPD/PM will immediately notify the MDA when a
       deviation occurs, and provide the reason for the program deviation and the actions that need to be
       taken to bring the program back within baseline parameters within 30 days of the occurrence.
       Within 90 days of the occurrence of the program deviation, the program shall be back within APB
       parameters, or a new APB (changing only those parameters that breached) shall be presented to
       the MDA for approval.

A2.3. Independent Program Assessment Activity: The purpose of the IPA is to advise the MDA on
the program's readiness to proceed successfully into the next acquisition phase. The IPA is a focused,
short duration “peer review” of a program that produces an unbiased, structured evaluation of the pro-
posed space acquisition activity. The IPA’s job is to determine whether the SPD/PM has properly identi-
fied and quantified program risk areas and then assess whether adequate risk mitigation plans are in place.
For a PSAB IPA, the review activity runs from one to two weeks, or longer, depending on the program’s
size and scope. The focus of the IPA should be on the identification and evaluation of all elements of pro-
gram risk. NSS 03-01 AP2.2, AP4, and E5 provide detailed guidelines on the conduct, scope, and
required documents of the IPA. Conceptually, the process is the same for DoD Space MDAPs. Refer to
NSS 03-01 for differences with and additions to this guidance on the processes and procedures for
DSAB-IPAs. Throughout the process, the PSAB Executive Secretariat shall provide advice, training, and
sample PSAB products. SMC ACE will develop, maintain, and distribute PSAB schedule and coordinate
security clearances for IPAT. The Program Office will support IPA activities as needed.
   A2.3.1. PSAB Intention Letter: To allow sufficient lead time for planning, training, and cost analysis,
   the SPD/PM will send to the PSAB Executive Secretariat a letter stating the program’s intent to
   undergo a PSAB, and attach the program’s final TRD, POE, draft CARD or technical baseline, and
   risk analysis. The Program Office will also identify a Program Office Cost Assessment Liaison to
   coordinate activities with the cost assessment team. Upon receipt of the cost data, SMC/FM will
   select an ICAT Lead, form a cost analysis team, and initiate the independent cost analysis, starting
   with the CARD review and data collection, followed by the actual cost analysis. After submitting the
   PSAB Intention letter, the Program Office will begin assembling their IPS package. Upon receipt of
   this package, SMC ACE will:
       A2.3.1.1. Coordinate proposed PSAB date and input into the DSAB/PSAB planning tool.
       A2.3.1.2. Plan and conduct PSAB training for the Program Office.
       A2.3.1.3. Forward the attached cost data to SMC/FM.
       A2.3.1.4. Name an IPA Facilitator for the PSAB-IPA.
   A2.3.2. PSAB-IPA Planning: SMC ACE will conduct orientation and training for the Program
   Office, to include PSAB-IPA assessment planning, use of the IPA tool, and the development of all
   PSAB-IPA related documentation.
16                                                                    SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006


     A2.3.3. PSAB Request Letter: The SPD/PM’s draft request letter for a PSAB formally initiates the
     PSAB-IPA process. This draft PSAB request letter is first coordinated through the PSAB Executive
     Secretariat to develop a tailored final letter that is then sent to the MDA. Draft Request Letters should
     be sent a minimum of 105 working days prior to the desired PSAB date to provide adequate time to
     prepare for and conduct the IPA, and complete the independent cost analysis. It is imperative that the
     SPD/PM makes the MDA aware, as early in the process as possible, of his intent to request a PSAB
     date in order for the PSAB Executive Secretariat to recommend the IPA Lead and Team members.
     Prior to formal initiation of the PSAB process, the PSAB Executive Secretariat will maintain an early
     and ongoing dialog with the various SPDs/PMs to facilitate entry of their programs into the formal
     process. In addition, Program Offices will ensure that KDP readiness review checklist items (Ref:
     NSS 03-01, E1) can reasonably be met in time to conduct the IPA. The SMC ACE should be con-
     sulted regarding preparation and completeness prior to submitting the PSAB request letter. The
     PSAB request letter shall include:
        A2.3.3.1. Program name.
        A2.3.3.2. Desired PSAB date.
        A2.3.3.3. KDP being met and existing ADM direction.
        A2.3.3.4. Identification of KDP pre-requisite checklist shortfalls (Ref: 7.).
        A2.3.3.5. List of stakeholders and subject area experts.
        A2.3.3.6. An MDA approved Acquisition Strategy applicable for the upcoming acquisition phase.
        All programs regardless of ACAT are required to have an Acquisition Strategy. Details on the
        Acquisition Strategy creation and approval process are found in NSS 03-01, AP4.1.1.
        A2.3.3.7. A list of proposed IPAT Leads. SPDs/PMs may include their recommendations for IPA
        Team Leads with a biography as an attachment.
        A2.3.3.8. List of identified program risk areas.
        A2.3.3.9. If appropriate, the letter shall also include a request and rationale for the MDA to grant
        an exemption to any of the processes and procedures contained within this instruction.
     A2.3.4. Initial PSAB Activities: Within 5 days after receipt of the final PSAB Request Letter, the
     PSAB Executive Secretariat will staff the PSAB Request Letter and provide nominations for potential
     IPAT Leads to the MDA for consideration and approval (Ref: 4.4.). The actual selection process can
     take upwards of 30 working days.
     A2.3.5. MDA Call for PSAB Letter: The PSAB Executive Secretariat will provide a draft MDA Call
     for PSAB Letter to the MDA for approval. The Final MDA Call for PSAB Letter will provide the fol-
     lowing information:
        A2.3.5.1. PSAB date.
        A2.3.5.2. PSAB location.
        A2.3.5.3. ICAT and IPAT Leads.
        A2.3.5.4. The scope or tailoring of the IPA or waiver of the IPA.
        A2.3.5.5. Items of interest to be addressed by the Program Office, IPAT, and ICAT.
SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                          17


     A2.3.5.6. Invitation to stakeholders, SMC functionals, and Program Offices to augment the IPA
     and cost assessment teams.
  A2.3.6. PSAB IPAT Lead Planning Activities: Within 5 working days after issuance of the PSAB
  Call Letter, the PSAB IPAT Lead will estimate the scope of effort involved with the PSAB and ini-
  tiate a plan of action. The PSAB Executive Secretariat will name a PSAB-IPA Facilitator to assist the
  PSAB IPAT Lead on the following activities:
     A2.3.6.1. Program assessment planning (e.g., issue identification, agenda, etc.).
     A2.3.6.2. Identify review requirements by going through the IPS, IPA, and independent cost anal-
     ysis items identified in NSS 03-01 AP2, AP3, E2, and E5.
     A2.3.6.3. Meet with stakeholders and identify potential issues and concerns.
     A2.3.6.4. Plan for IPAT administrative considerations (e.g., communications, security, computer,
     facilities, travel, etc.).
     A2.3.6.5. Select IPAT members.
         A2.3.6.5.1. SMC IPAT Nomination Process: The PSAB Executive Secretariat will manage
         the IPA member nomination process. With support from the IPA Facilitator, the IPAT Lead
         shall identify areas of expertise required to accomplish the IPA and then select qualified core
         IPA functional and technical experts based on their recognized expertise in a particular area
         requiring IPA review. The size of the core IPA team is usually between 10-15 members,
         depending on the complexity and maturity of the program under review. Each selectee’s
         immediate supervisor and 2-Letter chief will be coordinated with. The MDA has final
         approval authority over all IPAT members. The IPAT Lead shall select the IPAT within 30
         working days after receiving the MDA Call for PSAB Letter, and the PSAB Executive Secre-
         tariat will notify selected personnel within 3 working days of the lead’s decision.
         A2.3.6.5.2. IPAT Core Members: Core IPAT Members are responsible for providing IPA
         assessment status and ratings, and are “voting” members of the IPA. IPAT core member shall
         support the IPA full-time, starting from IPA Orientation until released by the IPA Lead. Dur-
         ing this period, each IPAT Member shall conduct an unbiased review of the program under
         evaluation, applying all relevant experiences and pertinent information to ensure an objective
         evaluation with factual recommendations. Core IPAT and other support members, may be
         recruited from OO-ALC for ICBM systems and from other DoD Services for Joint Programs
         such as MILSATCOM and GPS. HQ AFSPC participation is also encouraged in the IPA pro-
         cess.
         A2.3.6.5.3. IPAT Stakeholder Representatives: Stakeholder representatives are members that
         have a real need to understand the program but either cannot dedicate the time to be full-time
         members or were not selected as core members. Their main purpose is to represent their orga-
         nizations’ interests. Stakeholder representatives shall not reveal IPA assessment status, rat-
         ings, or any other information not specifically related to their organizations’ concerns.
         Stakeholder representatives shall be identified before the start of the IPA process and are
         expected to serve throughout the entire IPA activity in order to maintain continuity and mini-
         mize the need to revisit previously covered material. Stakeholder representatives shall be
         identified by the Program Office, recommended to the PSAB Executive Secretariat, approved
         by the IPA Lead, and notified upon confirmation of team assignment by the PSAB Executive
18                                                                  SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006


            Secretariat. All program review materials and briefing schedules will be available to the
            stakeholder representatives. The stakeholder representatives will work with the PSAB Execu-
            tive Secretariat staff and the IPAT Leader to define their participation in the review process.
            The stakeholder representatives will be provided access to all the IPA review documentation
            via an appropriately secure website and are responsible for preparing their senior principal for
            the PSAB.
                A2.3.6.5.3.1. Due to the interdependence of independent cost analysis and IPAT activi-
                ties, the cost analysis team is considered a stakeholder representative and with IPAT
                Lead’s approval may choose to appoint a full-time ICAT representative to the IPAT.
                Stakeholder representatives shall be approved by the IPA Lead, and notified upon confir-
                mation of team assignment by the IPA Facilitator.
            A2.3.6.5.4. Subject Matter Experts: The IPA Lead defines the scope of SME involvement on
            a particular IPA. The Program Office will assist the IPAT to identify relevant SMEs. The
            SMEs focus on a particular technical area rather than overall program assessment. Technical
            areas can include systems engineering, communications, logistics, acquisition systems protec-
            tion, test and evaluation, program protection, environment, safety and health, system safety,
            and others as appropriate. Unless explicitly notified by the IPA Lead, SMEs are not part of the
            core team, are not voting members of the IPA, and are only part-time members of the IPAT
            who must attend only those sessions that apply to their respective area of expertise. Some
            SMEs should be from organizations outside of internal SMC assets. The IPA Lead will ensure
            that the IPA Facilitator is explicitly made aware of any SMEs who are made members of the
            core team. The Facilitator will ensure that the PSAB Secretariat and the Program Office are
            made aware of the IPA Lead’s decision.
     A2.3.7. MDA and IPAT Lead Meeting: Within 5 working days after issuance of the MDA Call for
     PSAB Letter the IPA Facilitator will set up an IPAT Lead meeting with the MDA. The purpose of this
     meeting is to:
        A2.3.7.1. Define the scope and the level of effort required for the PSAB.
        A2.3.7.2. Inform the MDA of the IPA Lead’s core IPAT member selections.
        A2.3.7.3. Present the proposed IPA schedule that includes all preparatory meetings.
        A2.3.7.4. Allow the MDA an opportunity to present additional guidance as to what he wants the
        IPA to examine.
        A2.3.7.5. Prioritize the IPS review areas based on Program Office recommendations and MDA
        approval.
     A2.3.8. IPS Readiness Review: PSAB Executive Secretariat, IPA Lead, IPA Facilitator and the Pro-
     gram Office will conduct a sufficiency review of the IPS and other documentation to ensure that Pro-
     gram Office is ready to go forward with the IPA. The PSAB Executive Secretariat will develop a draft
     agenda for the IPA, identifying the specific IPS areas requiring additional briefings and discussion.
     A2.3.9. IPA Orientation: The purpose of the IPA Orientation is to familiarize the team members with
     the program undergoing review and the IPA process. The program shall deliver both printed and elec-
     tronic version of the Program Office IPS to the IPA team no later than the day of the IPA orientation.
     Specific IPS areas should be assigned to IPAT members at the beginning of training. The team will
     receive the following briefings and documents during the two-day orientation:
SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                              19


     A2.3.9.1. PSAB IPA process orientation, incorporating training on NSS 03-01, PSAB-IPA pro-
     cess, Key Requirements Metrics, Lessons learned, and the IPA Tool (presented by the IPA Facili-
     tator).
     A2.3.9.2. Program overview briefing (presented by the Program Office).
     A2.3.9.3. ICAT activity status (presented by the ICAT Lead).
     A2.3.9.4. Instructions and templates for final reports and outbriefs.
     A2.3.9.5. List of KRMs and KRIs with which to evaluate the program; this will also be given to
     the Program Office by the IPA Facilitator.
  A2.3.10. Conduct IPA: The IPA is usually conducted in the SMC Decision Support Center (Building
  272, Room 2-238). However, for geographically separated units or programs at KDP-C, it might be
  more advantageous to have the IPA at an alternate location. In this eventuality, the Program Office
  shall be responsible for all temporary duty (TDY) costs incurred by SMC ACE personnel. The IPA
  Facilitator will coordinate with the Program Office to arrange a site selection that is both effective for
  conduct of the evaluation and cost efficient to the government. Note that facility clearance require-
  ments might be an important factor in selecting the IPA location. During the IPA, the Program Office
  will present briefings on IPS areas requiring additional clarifications. Instead of generating a new
  briefing specifically for the IPA, the Program Office is encouraged to use existing documents and
  briefing charts for discussions with the IPAT. The Program Office will deliver a Program Office Esti-
  mate briefing, independent of the draft ICAT briefing. The IPA Facilitator will work with the PM and
  the IPAT and ICAT Leads to coordinate the briefing sequence and content. All questions from the
  IPAT and responses from the Program Office shall be documented in the electronic IPA Tool. The
  IPA is responsible for generating a draft IPA briefing and ADM recommendations.
  A2.3.11. SPD Courtesy Pre-Brief: This meeting is a forum for the IPAT Lead to relay any major find-
  ings to the SPD, obtain clarification on any outstanding issues, and reconcile any information gaps
  before going into the PSAB. The IPAT Lead is encouraged to review the draft IPA briefing and ADM
  recommendations with the SPD at this meeting. All PSAB invitees, except the MDA, are encouraged
  to attend the SPD pre-brief.
     A2.3.11.1. PSAB Preparatory Package: The PSAB Executive Secretariat will make available an
     electronic PSAB read-ahead package to PSAB invitees. The package will include items
     A2.3.11.1.1. - A2.3.11.1.5. Program Office personnel shall be directed to assist the PSAB Execu-
     tive Secretariat in preparation and distribution of the read ahead package. PSAB invitees are
     encouraged to attend the SPD pre-brief. No other pre-briefs to the PSAB invitees will be con-
     ducted unless requested by the MDA. The Stakeholder IPAT members are expected to use the
     PSAB read-ahead package to prepare their leadership to attend the PSAB.
         A2.3.11.1.1. IPA briefing to include program overview and ICAT briefing.
         A2.3.11.1.2. IPS.
         A2.3.11.1.3. MDA approved Acquisition Strategy (for KDP-A, B, C, and Build Approval).
         A2.3.11.1.4. APB or proposed APB (for KDP-B and C).
         A2.3.11.1.5. ADM or proposed ADM (for KDP-A, B, and C).
20                                                                    SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006


     A2.3.12. PSAB: The MDA convenes a PSAB to obtain advice and information necessary to support
     his decision whether or not to proceed into the next acquisition phase. An MDA decision to proceed
     authorizes the PM to perform appropriate activities in accordance with the approved Acquisition
     Strategy, APB, and ADM. The PSAB Executive Secretariat shall organize the PSAB and work with
     the SPD/PM and the IPAT and ICAT Leaders to coordinate the briefing sequence and content. Typi-
     cally, the SPD/PM will present a brief summary of the program, and then the IPAT Lead, with support
     from the ICAT Lead, shall present their independent assessment findings and recommendations. All
     material presented at the PSAB should be at the lowest possible classification level. The PSAB Exec-
     utive Secretariat shall be designated as the Recorder, and shall prepare, coordinate with the PEO and
     SPD/PM, and distribute the PSAB summary, action items, and other decisions not covered in the
     ADM. The PSAB Executive Secretariat shall also coordinate any new or updated ADM, Acquisition
     Strategy, or other program direction with the SPD/PM.
     A2.3.13. Acquisition Decision Memorandum: The purpose of the ADM is to document program
     direction from the MDA. The MDA will issue a written ADM documenting the decisions of the
     PSAB and establishing the exit criteria for the next acquisition phase. Refer to NSS 03-01 AP4.1.2
     for the specifics and content of the ADM. SMC ACE shall assist the Program Office in drafting the
     DSAB/PSAB ADM by providing format and lessons learned advice. The Program Office shall
     include a pre-coordinated draft ADM in the IPS (Ref: 4.2.6.). Based on findings found during the
     IPA, the IPAT shall provide its recommendations and proposed changes to the draft ADM to the MDA
     at the PSAB. The proposed ADM from the IPAT shall be coordinated with the standing members of
     the PSAB (except the MDA) immediately after the SPD Pre-Brief and before the PSAB. The coordi-
     nated ADM will be included in the PSAB Preparation Package. If the decision involves the Program
     Office return to the MDA for an in-phase review (IPR), the ADM shall specify the entry and exit cri-
     teria for the IPR and state if an IPA is required to validate the completion of the IPR entry or exit cri-
     teria. For programs undergoing KDP-C upgrade, the ADM shall document which KDP (e.g. KDP-A,
     B, or C) the upgrade will be required to meet in order to begin the acquisition process. Within 5 work-
     ing days after the completion of the PSAB, the MDA will sign the ADM. The ADM will be addressed
     to the appropriate SPD/PM. The PSAB Executive Secretariat will distribute copies of the ADM to the
     PSAB attendees.

A2.4. Independent Cost Analysis Activity: The ICA/ICE provides the MDA with sound, consistent
cost estimating and analysis results for effective decision making and is a key activity leading up to a
PSAB.
     A2.4.1. SMC/FM shall:
        A2.4.1.1. Select the ICAT Lead upon receipt of the IPA intention letter.
        A2.4.1.2. Develop local cost analysis process methodology, data requirements, and training to
        support the program under review.
        A2.4.1.3. Identify cost team facilities, equipment, and schedule requirements to SMC ACE for
        planning and resource allocation.
        A2.4.1.4. Identify specific data requirements to the Program Office for the cost team’s assessment
        based on the agreed upon scope.
        A2.4.1.5. SMC/FM may augment the ICAT with qualified personnel drawn from across the FM
        community, including the Program Office, SMC/FM, University Affiliated Research Center staff,
SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                            21


       System Engineering and Technical Assistance (SETA) contractors, Federally Funded Research
       and Development Center (FFRDC) staff and/or appropriately experienced external SMC person-
       nel, to serve as team members.
   A2.4.2. The ICAT Lead will form the ICAT and initiate the independent cost analysis after receipt of
   the PSAB Intention Letter. Program costs are compared with budget forecasts and evaluated. For
   non-MDAPs an ICA is performed for KDP-A, and an ICA or ICE for KDP-B, and an ICE for KDP-C
   and Build Approval. SMC/FM will work with the Program Office to understand the program, Acqui-
   sition Strategy, schedule, and cost documentation fidelity to recommend specific tailoring of the inde-
   pendent cost analysis (as appropriate) to be included in the PSAB Call Letter. For PSAB programs,
   150 to 170 working days is the nominal timeline for the ICAT process. The ICAT will deliver a draft
   ICE/ICA Briefing to the IPA. The final ICA/ICE results will be delivered at the SPD Courtesy
   Pre-Brief. For DSABs, to help prepare Program Offices to meet their DSAB ICA/ICE obligations,
   SMC/FM shall conduct a sufficiency review of program cost documentation (CARD, POE, risk
   assessment, ground rules and assumptions, etc.) prior to the documentation being submitted to the
   DSAB ICAT Lead.
   A2.4.3. Required Cost Analysis Data: The Program Office will submit an approved CARD, TRD,
   and POE with the PSAB Intention Letter. The CARD must be approved by the PM as the technical
   baseline to be used for the POE at the time the program’s cost team requires one. These documents
   should be ready prior to the program submitting a PSAB Request Letter. The Program Office will
   also provide support to independent cost analysis activities as needed.

A2.5. Post-PSAB Action Tracking: Program performance and PSAB action item completion account-
ability is the responsibility of the SPD/PM. The IPAT is responsible for reviewing the status of actions
documented in the ADM from the previous KDP as part of their assessment of program readiness for the
next phase. The SPD/PM is responsible for monitoring compliance with ADM direction throughout the
development of the program and is specifically responsible for tracking actions after the KDP-C PSAB is
held. The PSAB Executive Secretary shall track the status of PSAB action items.
   A2.5.1. Program Record Keeping and PSAB History File: The PSAB Executive Secretariat shall
   retain detailed metrics, lessons learned, and examples of IPS, ADM, annotated briefings, independent
   cost analysis results, etc., on the IPA Tool for 3 years as the official program decision record. The
   SPD/PM shall comply with record keeping responsibilities under the Federal Records Act for the pro-
   gram information collected and retained in the form of electronic records (Ref: DoDD 5015.2). Elec-
   tronic record keeping systems shall preserve the information submitted, as required by 44 USC 3101,
   et seq.
                                                                   Attachment 3




                                                                                                                                                 22
                  DESCRIPTION AND MILESTONE DECISION AUTHORITY FOR DOD SPACE PROGRAMS

DoD Space                              Acquisition Designation                           Required    Required Cost Analysis       Milestone
Programs                                                                                 Program                                  Decision
                           (All Dollar Thresholds in FY00 Constant Dollars)
                                                                                        Assessment                                Authority
MDAP        • ACAT I Program                                                          DSAB           ICA for KDP-A              USD (AT&L)
               o Total expenditure estimated by the DoD Space MDA > $365M for RDT&E
                 or $2.190B for procurement, or
                                                                                                     ICE for KDP-B, -C, or
               o Designated by the DoD Space MDA or USD(AT&L) as special interest
                                                                                                     Build Approval
            • ACAT I Program in Post Production Upgrade                               DSAB or as     ICE                        USD (AT&L)
               o Total upgrade expenditure estimated by DoD Space MDA > $180M         directed by
                                                                                      MDA
            • ACAT I Program in Post Production Upgrade                               PSAB or as     ICE or as directed by      AFPEO/SP or as
               o Total upgrade expenditure estimated by DoD Space MDA < $180M         directed by    MDA                        delegated
                                                                                      MDA
Non-        • ACAT II Program                                                         PSAB           ICA for KDP-A              AFPEO/SP or as
MDAP           o Total expenditure estimated by the DoD Component Head > $140M for                   ICA or ICE for KDP-B       delegated
                 RDT&E or $660M for procurement, or                                                  ICE for KDP-C
               o Designated by DoD Component Head as a “major” system
            • ACAT III Program                                                        PSAB           ICA for KDP-A              AFPEO/SP or as
               o Total expenditure estimated by SMC/FM > $50M for RDT&E or $236M                     ICA or ICE for KDP-B       delegated
                 for procurement, or                                                                 ICE for KDP-C




                                                                                                                                                 SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006
               o DoD Space non-major system
            • ACAT III Program                                                        Not required   ICA, ICE, or as directed   AFPEO/SP or as
               o Total expenditure estimated by SMC/FM < $50M for RDT&E or $236M                     by MDA                     delegated
                 for procurement
            • Non-MDAP Program in Post Production Upgrade                             PSAB           ICE or as directed by      AFPEO/SP or as
               o Total upgrade expenditure estimated by SMC/FM > $140M                               MDA                        delegated
            • Non-MDAP Program in Post Production Upgrade                             Not required   ICE or as directed by      AFPEO/SP or as
               o Total upgrade expenditure estimated by SMC/FM < $140M                               MDA                        delegated
                                                                          Attachment 4




                                                                                                                                                                      SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006
                                 SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE DSAB AND PSAB PROCESS

Activity                                   DSAB (all durations in working days)                       PSAB (all durations in working days)
Program Assessment Request Letter          DSAB request letter initiates the DSAB process             PSAB request letter initiates the PSAB process
MDA                                        USD(AT&L)                                                  AFPEO/SP or delegate
Planning and Guidance Meeting and Timing DSAB planning meeting is required 8 days after request letter Not required, MDA provides guidance in PSAB call letter
                                         is received
IPAT Team Lead                             O-7 or civilian equivalent or above appointed by MDA       O-6 or civilian equivalent or above appointed by MDA
Size of the IPA Core Team                  15-18                                                      10-15
ICAT Team Lead                             Appointed by MDA                                           Appointed by MDA
ICA/ICE                                    460-640 days                                               150-170 days
Readiness Review                           DSAB Readiness Review is required 60 days after request    Not required, Program Office is responsible for ensuring that
                                           letter is received                                         IPA readiness review checklist and key entry criteria are met
                                                                                                      prior to submit the request letter
Integrated Program Summary                 Required, due two weeks before start of IPA                Required, due two weeks before start of IPA, can be tailored
Technical Readiness Assessment             Must be coordinated with SAF/AQR prior to IPA              Does not require SAF/AQR coordination
Timing of IPA                              55 days after request letter is received                   70 after request letter is received
Duration of IPA                            25 days                                                    10 days
Pre-DSAB/PSAB Briefing                     AFPEO/SP Pre-DSAB Briefing                                 SPD Pre-Brief
ADM                                        Issued 10 days after DSAB                                  Issued 10 days after PSAB




                                                                                                                                                                      23
                                                                                     Attachment 5




                                                                                                                                                                                                  24
                                                               SPACE ACQUISITION DOCUMENT MATRIX

            Document            Written By     KDP or Phase            Approval               Approval        Approval         Coord Required       Coord Required (Per      Ref. Documents
              Title                                                    Threshold              Required        Required           Per Statute             SAF/US)
                                                                                             Per Statute     Per SAF/US
Acquisition Decision           SPO & DoD     KDP-A               Any program            N/A                MDA              N/A                   SPD/PM; PEO; CAE;        DoDI 5000.2 E3.T2
Memorandum (ADM)               Space MDA     KDP-B               conducting a PSAB                                                                ASD(NII); USD(I);        NSS 03-01 AP4.1.2 &
                               Staff         KDP-C               or DSAB                                                                          PA&E; Lead User/           E2
                                             Build Approval                                                                                       Operating Command;       SMCI 63-102 4.2.6.,
                                                                                                                                                  Affected Agencies and      A2.3.15
                                                                                                                                                  Departments, SMC
                                                                                                                                                  ACE, SMC Staff
Acquisition Program Baseline   SPO           KDP-B               All programs           N/A                MDA              OSD(C)                J8; SPD/PM; PEO;         10 USC §2435
(APB)                                        KDP-C                                                                          (10 USC 2220)         USD(I); PA&E; CAE;       10 USC §2220(a)(2)
                                             Build Approval                                                                                       Lead User/ Operating     NSS 03-01 AP4.1.3 &
                                                                                                                                                  Command; ASD(NII);          E1, E2, E3
                                                                                                                                                  Affected Agencies and    AFI 63-123
                                                                                                                                                  Departments              SMCI 63-102 A2.2.4.
Acquisition Strategy           SPO           KDP-A               All programs           N/A                MDA; PEO;        N/A                   CAE; Service             10 USC §2440
                                             KDP-B                                                         SPD/PM                                 Contracting Authority;   10 USC §2469
                                             KDP-C                                                                                                ASD(NII);Lead            DFARS 207.103(d)(i)
                                             Build Approval                                                                                       User/Operating           DoDI 5000.2 E3.T2
                                                                                                                                                  Command                  NSS 03-01 AP4.1.1 &
                                                                                                                                                                              E2
Analysis of Alternatives       Lead OPS      KDP-A               ACAT I                 Director, PA&E     Director, PA&E   Director, PA&E        Director, PA&E           DoDI 5000.2 E3.T2,
(AoA)                          command       KDP-B (update)      As directed by MDA for                                                                                      E6.5
                                             KDP-C (update)      ACAT II & ACAT III                                                                                        NSS 03-01 AP1.2.1.2,




                                                                                                                                                                                                  SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006
                                                                                                                                                                             E1, E4.6
Beyond-LRIP Report (OSD        DOT&E &       Phase D             MDAP                   NA                 N/A              SECDEF                N/A                      10 USC §2399
T&E Oversight programs only)   SPO                                                                                          USD (AT&L)                                     NSS 03-01 E2
                                                                                                                            Congressional                                  AFI 99-103
                                                                                                                            Defense                                        Defense Acquisition
                                                                                                                            Committees                                        Guidebook
Capability Development         Capability    KDP-A (Initial)     All programs           JROC               N/A              DIA/J-2, J-6, DoD     N/A                      CJCSM 3170.01
Document (CDD)                 Needs         KDP-B                                                                          Components, DoD
                               Authority     KDP-C                                                                          agencies, JWCA
                               (J8)                                                                                         teams, PA&E,
                                                                                                                            CRD leads,
                                                                                                                            Integrated
                                                                                                                            architecture leads.
                                                                                                                                                                                       SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006
           Document             Written By      KDP or Phase         Approval          Approval         Approval       Coord Required      Coord Required (Per     Ref. Documents
             Title                                                   Threshold         Required         Required         Per Statute            SAF/US)
                                                                                      Per Statute      Per SAF/US
Capability Production          Capability     Build Approval   All programs        JROC              N/A            DIA/J-2, J-6, DoD     N/A                    CJCSM 3170.01
Document (CPD)                 Needs                                                                                Components, DoD
                               Authority (J8)                                                                       agencies, JWCA
                                                                                                                    teams, PA&E,
                                                                                                                    CRD leads,
                                                                                                                    Integrated
                                                                                                                    architecture leads.
Clinger Cohen Act (CCA)        SPO           KDP-A             MDAP                MILDEP CIO        N/A            SAF/USA               N/A                    PL 107-248 Sec.
Compliance Table                             KDP-B                                 Concurrence                      AFSPC/LC                                        8088
Certification                                KDP-C                                                                                                               PL 105-261 Subtitle
                                             Build Approval    Non-MDAP            MILDEP CIO                       APSPC/LC                                        D, Sec. 311
                                                                                   Confirmation of                                                               40 USC §11101 et
                                                                                   Receipt                                                                          seq
Concept of Operations          AFSPC or      KDP-A             All programs        CSAF              N/A            HQ AF/XO              N/A                    AFPD 10-28
(CONOPS)                       lead          KDP-B                                                                  AF/XOX
                               operations
                               command
Cooperative Opportunities      USD(AT&L)     KDP-A             All programs        N/A               N/A            DAB                   N/A                    10 USC §2350a
with Allies Consideration      SPO           KDP-B
                                             KDP-C
Cost Analysis Requirements     SPO           KDP-B             ACAT I required     PEO               N/A            N/A                   N/A                    DoDI 5000.2
Description (CARD)                           KDP-C             ACAT II & III                                                                                     DoD 5000.4M
                                             Build Approval    optional                                                                                          AFI 65-508
Developmental                  SPO or        Phase B           All programs        N/A               SPD            N/A                   N/A                    NSS 03-01
Specifications (“B” & “C”      contractor    Phase C
Specs)
DoD Strategic Plan             Air           KDP-A             All programs        Director OMB      N/A            Congress              N/A                    5 USC §306
Compliance Certification (as   Staff/User    KDP-B                                                                  Affected agencies                            10 USC §118
part of AoA, whenever                        KDP-C                                                                                                               PL 106-65, Sec 901-
practical)                                   Build Approval                                                                                                         902
                                                                                                                                                                 NSS 03-01 AP4.1.1,
                                                                                                                                                                    E1, E4.2
Final PESHE/NEPA plans         SPO           Phase C           All programs        SPD/PM            N/A            NA                    N/A                    42 USC 4321 et seq
                                                                                                                                                                 NSS 03-01 AP1.1.8,
                                                                                                                                                                    E1, E3, E4.15
Independent Cost Analysis      OSD/CAIG      KDP-A             All programs (see   N/A               N/A            N/A                   N/A                    NSS 03-01
(ICA)                          or SMC/FM     KDP-B             exception in SMCI                                                                                 SMCI 63-102
                                             KDP-C             63-102
                                             Build Approval
Independent Cost Estimate      OSD/CAIG      KDP-B             MDAPs               N/A               N/A            N/A                   N/A                    10 USC §2434
(ICE) and Manpower             or SMC/FM     Build Approval                                                                                                      NSS 03-01
Estimate                                                       Non-MDAPs                                                                                         SMCI 63-102




                                                                                                                                                                                       25
                                                                                                                                                                                     26
            Document             Written By     KDP or Phase         Approval         Approval        Approval       Coord Required      Coord Required (Per     Ref. Documents
              Title                                                  Threshold        Required        Required         Per Statute            SAF/US)
                                                                                     Per Statute     Per SAF/US
Industrial Capabilities (part   SPO           KDP-A            All programs        N/A             N/A            N/A                   N/A                    10 USC §2440
of Acquisition Strategy)                      KDP-B
                                              KDP-C
                                              Build Approval
Information Assurance           SPO           KDP-A            All programs        SPD/PM          N/A            Using Command         N/A                    Defense Acquisition
Strategy                                      KDP-B                                                               DAA                                            Guidebook
                                              KDP-C                                                                                                            DoD 8510.1-M
                                                                                                                                                               DoDD 8500.1
                                                                                                                                                               DoDI 8500.2
                                                                                                                                                               AFI 33-202
Initial Capabilities Document   Capability    KDP-A            All programs        JROC            N/A            DIA/J-2, J-6, DoD     N/A                    CJCSM 3170.01
(ICD)                           Needs                                                                             Components, DoD
                                Authority                                                                         agencies, JWCA
                                (J8)                                                                              teams, PA&E,
                                                                                                                  CRD leads,
                                                                                                                  Integrated
                                                                                                                  architecture leads.
Integrated Logistics Support    SPO           Phase A          All programs        SPD/PM          N/A            N/A                   N/A                    Defense Acquisition
(ILS) Planning                                KDP-B                                                                                                              Guidebook
                                              KDP-C                                                                                                            AFI 10-102, Para
                                              Post KDP-C                                                                                                         A2.5.1
                                                                                                                                                               MIL-PRF-49506
Integrated Master Schedule      SPO           KDP-B            All programs        N/A             SPD/PM prior   N/A                   NONE                   DI-MISC-81183A
(IMS)                                         KDP-C                                                to IPA
                                              Build Approval
Independent Program             IPAT          KDP-A            All programs (but   N/A             MDA            N/A                   N/A                    NSS 03-01
Assessment (IPA)                              KDP-B            see exceptions in                                                                               SMCI 63-102




                                                                                                                                                                                     SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006
                                              KDP-C            SMCI 63-102)
                                              Build Approval
Integrated Program              SPO           KDP-A            All programs        N/A             SPD/PM prior   N/A                   NONE                   PL 107-314 Sec. 803
Summary (IPS)                                 KDP-B                                                to IPA                                                      NSS 03-01 AP4.2
                                              KDP-C
                                              Build Approval
Information Support Plan        SPO           KDP-B            All programs        N/A             CAE            N/A                   ASD(NII)               DoDI 4630.8
(ISP) – replaces C4ISP                        KDP-C                                                                                                            DoDD 4630.5
                                              Build Approval                                                                                                   CJCSI 6212-01C
Life Cycle Cost Estimate*       SPO           KDP B            All programs        N/A             N/A            N/A                   N/A                    NSS 03-01
included in POE                               KDP-C
                                              Build Approval
Live Fire Waiver & alternate    46            Phase B          Covered systems     DOT&E           N/A            DOT&E                 N/A                    10 USC §2366
LFT&E Plan                      OG/OGM                         only                                                                                            AFI 99-103 5.10
                                                                                                                                                                                         SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006
           Document               Written By     KDP or Phase         Approval             Approval        Approval       Coord Required     Coord Required (Per     Ref. Documents
             Title                                                    Threshold            Required        Required         Per Statute           SAF/US)
                                                                                          Per Statute     Per SAF/US
Live Fire Test & Evaluation      DOT&E         Phase D          OSD-covered            Congress         N/A            SECDEF               N/A                    10 USC §2366
(LFT&E) Report                                                  programs only                                                                                      Defense Acquisition
                                                                                                                                                                      Guidebook
LRIP Quantities                  User, SPO,    KDP-B            All Programs           MDA              MDA            OT&E Agent for       N/A                    10 USC §2400
                                 OT&E                                                                                  OT test quantities                          10 USC §2399
                                 Agent
Market Research                  Agency        KDP-A            All programs           N/A              N/A            N/A                  N/A                    10 USC §2377
                                 Head, SPO     KDP-B                                                                                                               15 USC §644(e)(2)
NEPA Documents                   SPO           Phase A          All programs           SMC/EPC          CAE            N/A                  N/A                    42 USC 4321 et seq
                                               Phase B                                                                                                             EO 12114
                                               Phase C                                                                                                             NSS 03-01 AP1.1.8,
                                               Phase D                                                                                                                E1
New Start Certification          SPO           KDP-A            All programs           SPD/PM           N/A            N/A                  N/A                    AFFARS 5332.702-90
                                               KDP-B                                   Program
                                               KDP-C                                   Control Chief
                                               Build Approval
Operational View (OV)            SPO           KDP-A            All programs           N/A              N/A            N/A                  N/A                    DoDI 5000.2
                                               KDP-B
                                               KDP-C
Operational Test Plan            OT Agent      KDP-B            All programs           DOT&E            N/A            N/A                  N/A                    10 USC §2399
                                               KDP-C                                                                                                               AFI 99-103
                                               Build Approval
Post Deployment Performance      End User      Phase D          All programs           N/A              N/A            N/A                  N/A                    5 USC §306
Review                                                                                                                                                             40 USC §11101 et
                                                                                                                                                                      seq
                                                                                                                                                                   PL 107-217 Sec.
                                                                                                                                                                      11313
Program Deviation Report         SPD/PM        As required by   MDAPs only             SAE              N/A            SAE                  N/A                    10 USC §2432
                                               statute          ACAT II & III to PEO                                                                               10 USC §2433
                                                                but not congress                                                                                   10 USC §2435
Program Office Estimate (includes SPO          Phase B          All                    SPD/PM           N/A            N/A                  N/A                    NSS 03-01
Lifecycle Cost estimate)                       Phase C
                                               Phase D
Programmatic Environment         SPO           KDP-B            All programs           N/A              N/A            N/A                  N/A                    42 USC §4321 et seq
Safety and Occupational Health                 KDP-C                                                                                                               NSS 03-01 AP1.1.8,
Evaluation (PESHE)                             Build Approval                                                                                                         E1, E3, E4.14




                                                                                                                                                                                         27
                                                                                                                                                                                        28
            Document            Written By     KDP or Phase         Approval            Approval        Approval       Coord Required      Coord Required (Per      Ref. Documents
              Title                                                 Threshold           Required        Required         Per Statute            SAF/US)
                                                                                       Per Statute     Per SAF/US
Program Protection             SPO           Phase A          All programs           SPD/PM and      N/A            Operating & using     N/A                     DoDD 5200.39
Planning (PPP)                               Phase B                                 MDA                            organizations                                 NSS 03-01 AP1.1.12
                                             Phase C                                                                                                              AFPD 63-17
                                             Phase D                                                                                                              AFPEO/SP SRTP
                                                                                                                                                                    Policy 63-17
                                                                                                                                                                  Defense Acquisition
                                                                                                                                                                    Guidebook
Registration of mission-       SPO           KDP-B            Mission-critical and   N/A             N/A            N/A                   N/A                     PL 107-248, Sec
critical and mission-                                         mission-essential                                                                                     8088
essential information                                         information systems                                                                                 PL 106-398, Sec 811
systems                                                       only                                                                                                NSS 03-01 AP1.1.8,
                                                                                                                                                                    E4.15
Risk Management Plan           SPO           KDP-B            All programs           N/A             N/A            N/A                   N/A                     NSS 03-01 E4.9
                                             KDP-C
                                             Build Approval
Selected Acquisition Report    SPO           Phase B          MDAPs only             N/A             N/A            N/A                   N/A                     10 USC §2432
(SAR)                                        Phase C
                                             Phase D
Segment Synchronization        SPO           KDP-C            All programs           N/A             N/A            N/A                   N/A                     NSS 03-01
Planning                                     Post KDP-C
Source of Repair Analysis      SPO           KDP-B            All programs           N/A             ASP Chairman   N/A                              SPD          10 USC §2460
(SORAP) (part of acquisition                 KDP-C                                                   or SMC/CC                                  SMC/CC or CV      10 USC §2464
strategy; includes Depot                                                                                                                         HQ AFMC/LG       10 USC §2466
Core Analysis & Depot                                                                                                                              JDMAG          10 USC §2469
Maintenance Interservice                                                                                                                        ASP Chairman or   10 USC §2474
Study)                                                                                                                                             SMC/CC         NSS 03-01 E1
Space Situational              SPO           KDP-B            All programs           N/A             N/A            N/A                   N/A                     NSS 03-01




                                                                                                                                                                                        SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006
Awareness Support
Spectrum Certification         SPO           Phase B          All programs using     N/A             N/A            N/A                   N/A                     47 USC §305
Compliance                                   Phase C          electromagnetic                                                                                     47 USC §901-904
                                                              spectrum                                                                                            PL 102-538 Sec. 104
                                                                                                                                                                  DoDD 4650.1
                                                                                                                                                                  NSS 03-01
System Disposal Plan           SPO           KDP-C            All programs           N/A             N/A            N/A                   N/A                     NSS 03-01
                                             Phase C
System Specification (“A”      SPO or        Phase A          All programs           N/A             SPD            N/A                   N/A                     NSS 03-01
Spec)                          contractor
System Security                SPO           KDP-B            All programs           SPD/PM          N/A            DAAs for              N/A                     DoDI 5200.40
Authorization Agreement                      KDP-C                                                                  interfacing systems                           PL 100-235
(SSAA)
                                                                                                                                                                                   SMCI63-102 7 SEPTEMBER 2006
           Document         Written By      KDP or Phase         Approval        Approval         Approval         Coord Required     Coord Required (Per      Ref. Documents
             Title                                               Threshold       Required         Required           Per Statute           SAF/US)
                                                                                Per Statute      Per SAF/US
System Threat Assessment   Intelligence   Phase A          All programs      Service           N/A               N/A                N/A                      DoDD 5105.21
Report (STAR)              Office         Phase B                            Assistant Chief                                                                 Defense Acquisition
                                          Phase C                            of Staff for                                                                      Guidance
                                          Phase D                            Intelligence
System View (SV)           SPO            KDP-B            All programs      N/A               N/A               N/A                N/A                      DoDI 5000.2
                                          KDP-C
                                          Build Approval
Technical View (TV)        SPO            KDP-B            All programs      N/A               N/A               N/A                N/A                      DoDI 5000.2
                                          KDP-C
                                          Build Approval
Technology Development     SPO            KDP-A            All programs      N/A               N/A               N/A                N/A                      PL 107-314 Sec. 803
Strategy                                  KDP-B
                                          KDP-C
Test & Evaluation (T&E)    SPO            KDP-A            All programs      N/A               Dir OT&E for      N/A                Service Test Authority   DoDI 5000.2
Strategy                                  KDP-B                                                MDAPs;
                                                                                               ASD(NII);
                                                                                               Service OTA
                                                                                               for “major”
                                                                                               systems;
                                                                                               SPD/PM; CAE;
                                                                                               PEO
Test & Evaluation Master   SPO            KDP-B            All programs      Dir OT&E for      MDA;ASD(NII);     N/A                Affected Services        DoDI 5000.2
Plan (TEMP)                                                                  MDAPs;            Program CAE;                         and/or Agencies          10 USC 139
                                                                             Service OTA       PEO; Service                                                  10 USC 2366
                                                                             for “major”       Test Authority;                                               10 USC 2399
                                                                             systems           SPD/PM;                                                       10 USC 2399
                                                                                                                                                             10 USC 2400
                                                                                                                                                             AFI 99-103
Technical Requirements     SPO                             All programs      Component         N/A               DUSD(S&T)          N/A                      TRA Deskbook
Document (TRD)                                                               S&T Exec;
                                                                             MDA
Training System            AFSPC/LC       Phase B          All programs      N/A               ASP Chair or      N/A                PM, LC, UC               AFI 36-2251
Requirements Analysis                                                                          SMC/CC                                                        AFMAN 36-2234
(TSRA)
Unit Cost Report           SPO            Phase B          MDAPs only        N/A               N/A               N/A                N/A                      10 USC §2433
                                          Phase C
                                          Phase D
Value Engineering          SPO            KDP-A            All programs      N/A               N/A               N/A                N/A                      41 USC §432
                                          KDP-B
                                          KDP-C
                                          Build Approval




                                                                                                                                                                                   29
