BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER
SPACE & MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER                                     INSTRUCTION 63-109

                                                                            5 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                       Acquisition

                                                       SPACE & MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER
                                                            (SMC) COST CENTRALIZATION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: SMC/FM                                                                 Certified by: SMC/FM
                                                                             (Colonel James Bell)
                                                                                          Pages: 14




This publication implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 65-508, Cost Analysis Guidance and
Procedures. This Instruction describes features of the Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC)
cost centralization process. Specifically, it distinguishes operational control (OPCON) and
administrative control (ADCON) of cost analysis human resources between the Financial
Management and Comptroller Directorate (SMC/FM) and the directorates. The intent of this
document is to clarify the purpose, organizational structure, roles and responsibilities, processes,
and products associated with cost centralization. This instruction applies to military and civilian
personnel assigned to SMC and programs under the Air Force Program Executive Office for
Space (AFPEO/SP). If there is any conflicting guidance between this publication and DoD or
Air Force regulations, policy, or instructions, the latter shall take precedence. Recommended
changes and questions about this publication should be referred to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route the
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command . Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 36-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
 2                                                            SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                             Chapter 1

                                SMC COST CENTRALIZATION

1.1. Purpose. SMC cost centralization is a change in the Operational Control (OPCON) of
financial management cost analysis assets including processes, products, and personnel; cost
centralization does not apply to earned value or schedule personnel. The change in OPCON
provides center-level standards, procedures, processes, and metrics for cost estimating activities.
Specifically, it gives SMC/FM the authority to perform functions in assigning AFPEO/SP and
Higher Headquarters (HHQ) tasks, designating objectives, training of personnel,
approval/concurrence authority in all matters related to cost estimating, and providing the
AFPEO/SP the recommended SMC cost position in support of acquisition milestone reviews and
budgetary submissions. Cost centralization provides cost estimating personnel a single entity,
SMC/FM, for direction and guidance, with the ability to standardize application of will cost,
should cost and Operating and Support (O&S) guidance. Centralizing cost operations under FM
provides a more effective and efficient decision support process in ensuring the delivery of high
fidelity estimates to the System Program Director (SPD) and AFPEO/SP. It contributes to the
standardization and consistent application of cost estimating principles and disciplines, tools,
models, documentation, training, data sources, cost resource management and other aspects of
cost estimating across SMC.
1.2. SMC Cost Centralization Structure. Describes ADCON and OPCON by position and
product.
     1.2.1. ADCON – Program Control Chiefs (PCCs) and Cost Chiefs. Under SMC cost
     centralization, a core team consisting of the directorate cost chief (or “cost chief”) and cost
     analysts will be assigned to their respective program offices. The PCCs retain ADCON of
     their cost analysis personnel in handling routine matters such as time keeping, leave
     approvals, work schedules, and conducting mid-term and annual appraisal reviews, unit
     logistics, discipline, training/certification, and other matters not included in the operational
     missions of the cost estimating staff. The PCCs remain the front-line supervisors of the
     assigned estimating personnel with no changes to the organizational UMD nor the current
     grade of their positions.
     1.2.2. OPCON – Program Control Chiefs (PCCs) and Cost Chiefs. The PCCs and cost
     chiefs retain responsibility for internal cost work and taskings, such as estimate excursions;
     however, any product leaving SMC or being presented to the PEO must have FM
     concurrence.
     1.2.3. SMC/FM OPCON – Estimating and Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL).
     SMC/FM has OPCON of all financial management cost analysis assets. SMC/FM and the
     SPD are the approval authorities for the recommended SMC Single Best Estimate (SBE) that
     is provided for AFPEO/SP approval in support of milestone reviews, annual updates, and
     budgetary submissions. SMC/FM OPCON includes the approval or concurrence authority in
     areas that include estimating, personnel, and cost CDRLs. With OPCON for all cost
     estimating efforts, SMC/FM strengthens the goals of improving consistency, standardization,
     and efficiency. SMC/FM will review all will cost and should cost estimate products,
     including cost methodologies, schedule risk assessments, and phasing of estimates.
SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    3


  Additionally, SMC/FM and the SPD have joint approval authority in the areas of cost
  reporting and CDRL deliverables.
     1.2.3.1. Programs not located at SMC, but in the AFPEO/SP portfolio, will follow
     approval/concurrence guidelines for cost products described in this document, with the
     exception of 1.2.4. SMC/FM Concurrence on Personnel Actions.
  1.2.4. SMC/FM Concurrence on Personnel Actions. For personnel, SMC/FM must concur
  with all performance objectives and appraisals for Defense Civilian Intelligence Personnel
  System (DCIPS) employees or any subsequent civilian performance management system.
  FM must also concur with evaluations for all cost estimating personnel, cost training, and
  certifications. In other words, raters and Higher Level Reviewers (HLRs) remain in their
  current configuration, but FM will concur on DCIPS objective and appraisals before
  submission to the HLR. Similar to the DCIPS approach, SMC/FM must also concur on
  General Schedule employee appraisals.
     1.2.4.1. Cost Resource Management. SMC/FM will concur on all cost resource
     management, including hiring actions, assignment rotations, staffing, and the
     requirements and utilization of cost support Advisory and Assistance Services (A&AS)
     and Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance (SETA) contractors. See 2.3 for
     additional details.
     1.2.4.2. Use of Task Management Tool (TMT). SMC/FM will send taskers through
     TMT to initiate, coordinate, and track personnel actions requiring concurrence.
  1.2.5. SMC/FM Interaction with Program Offices: Estimates and Resources. SMC/FM
  provides all cost estimating direction, guidance, taskings, and the review of AFPEO/SP and
  HHQ cost excursions prior to PCC integration. The PCCs and cost chiefs retain
  responsibility for internal cost work and taskings, such as estimate excursions. However, any
  product leaving SMC or being presented to the PEO must have FM concurrence. The
  assigned program office cost staff retains a closer proximity working relationship with SPDs
  and PCCs to provide quick turnaround support. Cost estimating OPCON under SMC/FM
  provides cost analysts direct guidance in the planning and delivery of estimating activities
  from inception and ensures higher fidelity estimates are provided to the PCCs for integration
  efforts. The centralized cost reporting structure, through SMC/FM, enables the cost team to
  receive estimating assistance and guidance from a central source with certified cost
  professionals and establishes a greater pool of resources for the SPDs, in both cost estimating
  and schedule risk assessments.
  1.2.6. SMC/FM will coordinate with SPDs to assess cost resources every six months based
  on program requirements and the life cycle phase of the program. A centralized structure
  allows FM the flexibility to quickly and efficiently provide support to the SPDs during
  instances such as source selections and special studies. This structure maximizes the
  utilization of cost analysts and avoids the need to permanently add personnel due to surge
  support needs. Furthermore, a centralized structure provides SPDs a single high-fidelity
  estimate from the start for the baseline program, without multiple independent FM cost and
  schedule assessments. Figure 1.1 illustrates FM and directorate structures under SMC cost
 4                                                              SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


     centralization, and Chapter 2 describes the roles and responsibilities of personnel within the
     structures.

Figure 1.1. SMC Cost Centralization Organizational Chart

       Staff                                                  Directorate
                            FM                                                   SPD


                           FMC
                                                                                 PCC
                                                        OPCON




                                                                 Cost           Budget
         FMCR              FMCC                                 Chiefs          Chiefs



                          Staff Cost                            Cost
                          Analysts                            Analysts




 ADCON         PCC   Directorate Cost Chiefs and subordinates remain in the program office under
 OPCON         FM    administrative control of the PCC, but operational control resides with FM
SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                       5



                                           Chapter 2

                             ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. SMC/FMC Roles and Responsibilities. Key roles and responsibilities of SMC/FMC
personnel under cost centralization are described below.
   2.1.1. SMC/FMC Division Chief. The SMC/FMC Division Chief provides cost estimating
   guidance and direction to all staff branch chiefs and directorate cost chiefs; sets guidelines to
   establish credible cost estimating methods and practices; conducts estimate deep-dives; and
   coordinates, validates, and submits completed estimate for FM and SPD coordination. Key
   SMC/FMC Division Chief responsibilities include:
      2.1.1.1. FMC retains OPCON of all matters related to cost estimating and cost personnel.
      FMC supervises FMC branch chiefs and their subordinates, including approval of cost
      duties, objectives, and appraisals. FMC provides guidance and direction to assigned cost
      personnel and concurrence on cost duties, objectives, and appraisals.
      2.1.1.2. Lead estimate kick-off meetings with the Air Force Cost Analysis Agency
      (AFCAA) and Office of the Secretary of Defense Cost Assessment and Program
      Evaluation (OSD/CAPE). FMC will set SMC guidelines to establish credible cost and
      defendable estimating methods and practices. FMC will work continuously and
      interactively with cost chiefs to develop defendable Program of Record baseline
      estimates.
      2.1.1.3. Coordinate, validate, and approve cost estimating approaches in life cycle cost
      estimates for space programs, business case analyses, and economic analyses. The
      division chief delegates responsibility to the various SMC/FMC branch chiefs and/or
      directorate cost chiefs for developing such products; reviews those products to ensure that
      they are valid and defendable; provides products for FM and SPD coordination.
      2.1.1.4. Interact directly with SPDs and PCCs, at least on a semi-annual basis, to assess
      program office requirements, resource allocations, provide personnel rotation plans, and
      to ensure cost estimating support is fully integrated and utilized at the directorate. The
      SMC/FMC Division Chief allocates the resources needed to produce cost estimating
      products in support of the program office. FMC is responsible for submitting completed
      estimates for FM and SPD coordination.
      2.1.1.5. FMC assists SMC units interpret cost policies established by Headquarters Air
      Force (HQ/AF) and OSD; develops and provides interpretation of SMC cost policies;
      reviews practices at SMC to ensure compliance with cost policies.
   2.1.2. Cost Branch Chief (FMCC). The cost branch chief supervises all cost leads and
   analysts located within FMCC; assists the FMC Division Chief oversee and manage SMC
   will cost and should cost estimating activities and processes on SMC portfolio ACAT I, II,
   and III programs. FMCC assists FMC in the implementation of cost centralization across the
   SMC portfolio, including staffing and workload assessments. Key FMCC Cost Branch Chief
   responsibilities include:
6                                                            SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


       2.1.2.1. Supervise all FMCC cost estimating leads and analysts. Review their work
       products, provide feedback, and perform administrative duties such as performance
       appraisals, timesheet approvals, and providing training and developmental opportunities.
       Assist the division chief with resource allocation decisions and cost-related briefings to
       the SMC/FM Comptroller/Deputy Comptroller, as well as the SMC Command Section.
       2.1.2.2. Interact regularly with directorate personnel (directorate cost chief and cost
       leads, SPD, and PCC) to receive updates on program status, cost estimating products, and
       cost estimating resource or training needs; FMCC will disseminate information such as
       schedules, cost-related guidance from SMC/FM Comptroller, HQ/AF, and OSD, and
       policy interpretation that the directorate cost chiefs/leads need to meet deliverables.
       2.1.2.3. Report directly to the SMC/FMC Division Chief, providing the status of all
       SMC cost estimating products. FMCC monitors and integrates cost estimating and
       schedule risk analyses deliverables to ensure high-quality, timely, and defendable cost
       products.
    2.1.3. Cost Research Branch Chief (FMCR). The Cost Research Branch Chief supervises all
    cost research leads and analysts within FMCR and is responsible for developing, researching,
    integrating and standardizing various cost estimating methodologies and cost estimating
    techniques. FMCR will work closely with all cost chiefs to ensure credible cost estimating
    methodologies and best practices are used in cost estimates. Key FMCR Cost Branch Chief
    responsibilities include:
       2.1.3.1. Supervise all FMCR cost research leads and analysts. Review their work
       products, provide feedback, and perform administrative duties such as performance
       appraisals, timesheet approvals, and provide training and developmental opportunities.
       Assist the division chief with resource allocation decisions and cost research related
       briefings to the SMC/FM Comptroller/Deputy Comptroller, as well as the SMC
       Command Section.
       2.1.3.2. Centrally manage SMC cost research and data collection efforts, interact
       regularly with directorate personnel and industry partners to ensure continuous updates to
       the SMC databases, including the Unmanned Space Cost Model (USCM) and the
       Cost/Schedule Reference Model (CSRM). Discuss and collect research needs and inputs
       from SPDs on an annual basis. Provide most current cost estimate methodology
       developments and disseminate research results to all cost chiefs. Continue to identify
       cost estimate weaknesses across the center and provide actionable resolutions.
       2.1.3.3. Interact with external organizations and agencies to research and leverage other
       cost estimating methodologies and techniques that are used within the cost estimating
       community.
       2.1.3.4. Report directly to the SMC/FMC Division Chief, providing the status of all
       SMC cost estimating research products.
       2.1.3.5. Develop and maintain a centralized cost methodology library/database for SMC
       cost analysts.
    2.1.4. FMCC/Directorate Cost Leads and Analysts. Cost analysts will share similar
    responsibilities regardless of their physical location, on staff or with a core team assigned to
SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                     7


   the SPD. Rotations allow analysts to backfill each other and enhance continuity of
   knowledge. Analysts currently assigned to FMC will work jointly with the directorate
   analysts to develop the SMC SBE. Key responsibilities include:
      2.1.4.1. Gather directorate inputs and prepare life cycle cost estimates, cost excursions
      and responses to HHQ taskings. Prepare an SBE for the program; reconcile with
      AFCAA Non-Advocate Cost Assessment (NACA); and prepare a should cost estimate
      for the program. Update cost products regularly, as specified by OSD, HQ AF and SMC
      policies.
      2.1.4.2. Responsible for providing status updates and cost estimating products. FMCC
      Cost Leads/Analysts report directly to FMCC. Directorate cost leads/analysts report
      directly to the directorate cost chief.
      2.1.4.3. At the discretion of FMC management, provide surge support to a directorate
      that temporarily needs additional cost estimating support. SMC/FM will provide cost
      support for Request for Proposal (RFP) write-ups and cost support for source selection
      when possible. Providing such support may require temporary co-location with the
      directorate. FM and the temporarily gaining and losing directorates will coordinate surge
      transfers through a Memo for Record (MFR) that describes surge support duties,
      duration, and requirement for appraisal input.
      2.1.4.4. Staff cost leads and analysts will lead SMC efforts for cross-program activities,
      such as estimating for resiliency activities. Staff cost leads and analysts also have the
      responsibility to refine their abilities in a specific estimating area for example, software
      estimating in order to better position themselves as center cost subject matter experts
      (SMEs). SMEs will provide support in their areas of expertise across the portfolio.
   2.1.5. FMCR Cost Research Leads and Analysts. An FMCR cost research lead and/or
   analyst works closely with FMCC and directorate cost analysts to ensure credible and
   consistent cost estimating methodologies are used in the cost estimate. FMCR personnel are
   responsible for the continuous development of cost estimating methodologies and serve as
   the trusted advisors in cost estimating tools and databases. Key responsibilities include:
      2.1.5.1. Work with FMCC and directorate cost analysts to support development of joint
      life cycle cost estimates; gather data in support of cost estimating methodology
      development.
      2.1.5.2. Develop methodology and database updates to support cost reconciliations with
      external organizations.
      2.1.5.3. Report directly to the FMCR Cost Research Branch Chief, providing status
      updates.
2.2. Directorate Roles and Responsibilities. Key roles and responsibilities of directorate
personnel are described below.
   2.2.1. System Program Director. The SPD is responsible for “accomplish[ing] program
   objectives for development, production, and sustainment to meet the user’s operational
   needs. The [SPD is also] accountable for credible cost, schedule, and performance reporting
   to the Milestone Decision Authority (MDA).” Key SPD responsibilities under SMC cost
   centralization include:
8                                                           SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


       2.2.1.1. SPD and FM will jointly review estimate submissions and assess programmatics.
       SPD and FM will jointly recommend an SBE for AFPEO/SP approval. If there are
       differences between SPD and FM positions, AFPEO/SP will adjudicate.
       2.2.1.2. For cost products that are intended for presentation to the PEO or beyond SMC,
       the SPD will interact directly with FMC for cost estimating, tasking, and excursion needs.
       The PCC and cost chief will continue to interact with the SPD on all SPO cost products.
       FMC Division Chief will meet at least semi-annually to assess program requirements for
       cost estimating and provide resource allocations; will not address day-to-day taskings, but
       annual requirements, projected surge support needs, and career broadening opportunities.
    2.2.2. Program Control Chief. The PCC is the integrator of directorate financial
    management information, including cost estimates, Earned Value Management (EVM)
    reports, and budgetary submissions. Key PCC responsibilities under SMC cost centralization
    include:
       2.2.2.1. PCCs retain ADCON of cost personnel assigned to the program office. ADCON
       includes handling routine personnel matters such as time keeping, leave approvals,
       scheduling, and performing mid-term and annual appraisal reviews, unit logistics,
       discipline, training/certification, and other matters not included in the operational
       missions of the cost estimating staff. PCCs will write and provide DCIPS cost estimator
       appraisal inputs to SMC/FM for concurrence, prior to submission to HLR. PCCs will
       support SPDs and provide programmatic information and updates to complete estimates.
       PCCs will provide FM recommendations on the request/justification of cost estimating
       A&AS and SETA contractor support; see section 2.3 for process explanation.
       2.2.2.2. Report directly to the SPD, providing budget-related products and program
       status updates.
    2.2.3. Directorate Cost Chief. Under centralization, the directorate cost chief receives direct
    guidance from FM in all matters related to cost estimating (OPCON), but remains under the
    daily supervision of the PCCs (ADCON). The directorate cost chief assists the FMC
    Division Chief in delivering high quality, defendable cost estimating products. As the cost
    estimating focal point within the program office, the directorate cost chief synthesizes
    technical and schedule inputs into defensible cost estimating products to obtain FM approval.
    Key directorate cost chief responsibilities include:
       2.2.3.1. Supervise all directorate cost estimating leads and analysts. Review their work
       products, provide feedback, and perform administrative duties such as performance
       appraisals, timesheet approvals, and provide training/certification, and development
       opportunities IAW SMC/FM and AF guidelines.
       2.2.3.2. Interact directly with SPDs, PCCs, and directorate personnel to receive updates
       on program plans and technical and schedule requirements and ensure that cost
       estimating products are delivered to the directorate.
       2.2.3.3. With FMC Division Chief policy guidance, cost chiefs assist PCCs and SPDs in
       meeting daily taskings on all cost estimating concerns. The SPD, PCCs, and cost chiefs
       retain responsibility for internal cost work and taskings, such as estimate excursions;
       however, any product leaving SMC or being presented to the PEO must have FM
SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                    9


       concurrence. Directorate cost chiefs ensure directorate cost analysts interpret and adhere
       to cost policies per SMC and AF guidelines.
       2.2.3.4. Report directly to the PCC for daily operations, but follow FMC Division Chief
       policy guidance in all matters related to cost estimating. The directorate cost chief is a
       member of the SMC/FMC team within the cost estimating OPCON construct. Cost
       chiefs will attend recurring FMC Cost Chief meetings typically weekly to provide status
       of cost estimating products, emphasizing FM goals of consistency, standardization, and
       defensibility of products.
       2.2.3.5. Review and obtain FM concurrence on A&AS, Federally Funded Research and
       Development Center (FFRDC) and SETA cost estimating support requests. Directorate
       cost chiefs will justify non-government cost resource needs based on specific program
       requirements and the life cycle phase of the program; see section 2.3 for process
       explanation.
   2.2.4. Directorate Cost Lead and Analysts. Cost leads and analysts in program offices
   perform similar functions to their FMC staff counterparts. See Paragraph 2.1.4 for
   clarification.
2.3. Non-Government Support Personnel. This document largely applies to military and
civilian personnel, as the roles and responsibilities of SETA contractors, FFRDC personnel, and
other support contractors are specified in their contracts and may vary from year-to-year. Non-
government cost support personnel hired by program offices will receive direction from the
program office Procurement Contracting Officer or Contracting Officer’s Representative.
However, it is important to note that SMC/FM retains OPCON in all matters related to cost
estimating. As mentioned previously, the directorate cost chief needs to obtain FM concurrence
on A&AS, FFRDC, and SETA cost estimating support requests. Under cost centralization,
SMC/FM will assess all cost resources from a center perspective to ensure adequate support is
justified based on specific program requirements and the life cycle phase of the program. FM
will concur on SETA support, after analysis of Contractor Assistance and Advisory Service plans
and portfolio-level analysis of military and civilian fill rates. FM will conduct the portfolio
workload/workforce analysis, while the program offices will justify their need for requested
SETA support. This combination of activities supports the best mix of organic and non-
government cost support across SMC.
 10                                                       SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                          Chapter 3

                              PROCESSES AND PRODUCTS

3.1. Communication Processes (“Battle Rhythm”).
   3.1.1. FMC Meetings. The FMC Division Chief will continue to have weekly staff meetings
   primarily for FMC staff to provide status on current and future cost activities by program.
   The FMC Division Chief will have recurring meetings scheduled weekly, but used as needed
   with FMCC and directorate cost chiefs to discuss human resource matters, cost policies, and
   the status of cost estimate products. FMC will disseminate any additional cost information,
   guidance, and requests that emerge between the recurring cost chief meetings.
   3.1.2. Program Office Meetings. Directorate cost chiefs/analysts will attend program office
   meetings that cover topics relevant to cost estimating; however, as members of the FMC
   team, civilians will not be assigned to Director’s Action Groups that provide executive
   support to program office directors and deputy directors. Cost personnel under the ADCON
   of the PCCs may participate in and volunteer for nominal directorate additional duties.
   3.1.3. Formal Briefings and Reports. Before briefing or submitting cost estimates to the
   PEO, the cost team will brief/submit completed estimates for FM and SPD coordination.
   Once concurrence is received, FM will forward the recommended position for AFPEO/SP
   approval/discussion. The internal SMC briefings must meet the timeline specified in AFI 65-
   508.
   3.1.4. Informal Communication. SPDs, FMC Division Chief, cost personnel, and PCCs or
   leads acting on behalf of those individuals – may communicate with the FMC Division Chief
   informally (e.g., via email, phone call, or unscheduled meeting) as needed to meet
   deliverables and address issues.
   3.1.5. Taskers. TMT taskers assigned to FMC may be delegated to directorate cost chiefs
   and their subordinates when appropriate.
   3.1.6. FMC will annually, or as needed, provide the FM Strategic Council with an
   assessment of SMC's cost analysis workforce, including organic, and non-government
   support personnel.
3.2. Cost Estimating Products and Processes.
   3.2.1. Will Cost Estimating. A single team consisting of the staff branch chief/analysts and
   directorate cost chief/analysts will work jointly to develop a SBE, a program life cycle cost
   estimate developed to establish a cost baseline in support of the Planning, Programming,
   Budgeting and Execution process and various acquisition events. No independent reviews or
   reconciliations will be required, because the SBE is a PEO estimate and deemed a will cost
   estimate.
   3.2.2. Will Cost Estimate Process. A single team consisting of the staff branch
   chief/analysts and directorate cost chief/analysts will work together to provide a
   recommended position for the SBE. The recommended SBE will be presented to FM and
   SPD, with the joint FM/SPD recommendation briefed to the AFPEO/SP, or delegated
   authority for approval. Once approval has been granted by the AFPEO/SP or delegated
SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                                   11


  authority, the SBE will be established and discussion/reconciliation can commence with
  AFCAA on products such as NACAs and Service Cost Positions.
  3.2.3. Should Cost Estimating. The staff and directorate cost team will work closely with
  the SPD and technical staff to develop cost saving initiatives for the should cost estimate.
  The should cost estimate is generated by using a will cost estimate as a baseline and
  identifying potential cost savings initiatives. FMC will facilitate support via the SMC
  Should-Cost Support Team (3ST), as described in the 3ST Charter, to develop the should
  cost estimate plan and should cost estimate for a program.
  3.2.4. Should Cost Estimate Process. The cost team will work together to provide a
  recommended position for should cost estimates. The recommended should cost estimate
  will be presented to FM and SPD, with the final FM/SPD recommendation briefed to the
  AFPEO/SP for approval/coordination. Final review/approval will be granted from the
  MDA/AFPEO/SP or delegated authority. Once approval has been granted by the appropriate
  authority, the should cost estimate will be established and information provided into the
  program Comprehensive Cost and Requirement system.
  3.2.5. What-if Drills and Cost Excursions. The directorate cost chief is responsible for
  creating, updating, and defending cost estimates used in various what-if drills or cost
  excursions. These estimates will be a derivative of the baseline SBE for the program and
  briefed to SMC/FM, if they are intended to leave the center or be briefed to the AFPEO/SP.
  3.2.6. Source Selection Support. The FMC Division Chief will continuously obtain and
  assess cost needs based on program requirements and nominate specific cost analysts to
  participate in pre-contract activities and source selection evaluation teams for a program.
  Cost analysts may be instructed to provide assistance or surge support for program pre-
  contract and source selection activities, as needed.
3.3. Human Resource Management.
  3.3.1. Personnel Assignments. The FMC Division Chief, with SPD and PCC coordination,
  assigns cost chiefs, leads, and analysts to FMC and directorate positions – and may rotate
  them as needed to achieve better skill, experience, and matches between personnel and
  positions. FMC’s long-term cost estimating goal is to train analysts with specialized skills in
  estimating hardware, software, common bus platform, payload, and System Engineering
  Integration and Test/Program Management and rotate these analysts into the program offices
  as appropriate.
  3.3.2. Training. Training requirements and opportunities for cost chiefs, leads, and analysts
  at SMC–whether located in FMC or in a directorate–will be specified by the FMC chain of
  command. Completion of required cost training will be monitored by FMC. FMC will
  provide informal cost training by estimating SMEs to enhance the skill set of organic
  estimators across SMC. FMC will select topics to enhance estimating capabilities specific to
  the SMC mission, for example software cost modeling.
  3.3.3. Leave and Timesheet Approvals. PCCs are responsible for reviewing and approving
  directorate cost chief leave requests and timesheets. Directorate cost chiefs are responsible
  for reviewing and approving leave requests and timesheets for organic cost personnel under
  their supervision.
12                                                     SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


  3.3.4. Performance Appraisals and Awards. PCCs are responsible for performance
  appraisals of directorate cost chiefs. The directorate cost chiefs are responsible for
  performance appraisals for cost personnel under their supervision. However, SMC/FM must
  concur with performance appraisal inputs prior to submission to the pay pool manager or
  SMC/CA.
  3.3.5. Civilian Hiring Actions. SMC/FM will have a member on each interview panel and
  will chair the panel for GG-13 and above. Hiring directorate must coordinate with FMR and
  FMC to assemble interview panel. See the SMC Functional Roles and Responsibilities
  Handbook for additional information.




                                         ELLEN M. PAWLIKOWSKI, Lt Gen, USAF
                                         Commander
SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                       13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 5000.01, §3.5, The Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
SMC Should-Cost Support Team (3ST) Charter, Signed 14 Oct 13
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publications

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A&AS—Advisory and Assistance Services
ADCON—Administrative Control
AFCAA—Air Force Cost Analysis Agency
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPEO/SP—Air Force Program Executive Officer for Space
CAIG—Cost Analysis Improvement Group (OSD)
CAPE—Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation (OSD)
CSRM—Cost/Schedule Reference Model
DoD—Department of Defense
EVM—Earned Value Management
FFRDC—Federally Funded Research and Development Corporation
FM—Financial Management and Comptroller Directorate
FMC—Financial Management and Comptroller Directorate – Cost Analysis and Earned Value
Division
FMCC—FMC Cost Estimating Branch
FMCR—FMC Cost Research Branch
HHQ—Higher Headquarters
HQ/AF—Headquarters Air Force
IAW—In Accordance With
MAJCOM—Major Command
NACA—Non-Advocate Cost Assessment
OPCON—Operational Control
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
 14                                                  SMCI63-109 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


OSD/CAPE—Office of the Secretary of Defense Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation
PCC—Program Control Chief
PEO—Program Executive Officer
SBE—Single Best Estimate
SCCI—SMC Cost Centralization Initiative
SETA—Systems Engineering and Technical Assistance
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SME—Subject Matter Expert
SPD—System Program Director
3ST—SMC Should-Cost Support Team
TMT—Task Management Tool
USCM—Unmanned Space Cost Model
