BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER
SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER                                INSTRUCTION 63-106

                                                                           1 OCTOBER 2009

                                                                                  Acquisition

                                              SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS (S&S)




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: SMC/EAE                                                           Certified by: SMC/EA
                                                                  (Colonel David E. Swanson)
                                                                                    Pages: 19


Compliance with this instruction is mandatory for all Air Force PEO-Space acquisitions and all
SMC organizations whether planning for, acquiring, or managing Product Support for SMC-
developed space and missile systems. Non-compliance with SMCI 63-106 is not punitive under
Article 92, or other articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. This instruction institutionalizes the SMC
Commander’s Policy Letter, Initial Policy on Specifications and Standards Usage at SMC, dated
11 July 2006. This instruction directs the development, use, and maintenance of S&S as an
integral element of SMC acquisition processes. Compliance with this instruction is mandatory
for programs executed by SMC Wings, SMC staff organizations and SMC/AFPEO-Space. S&S
shall be included in all solicitations, placed on contract as compliance documents, and
implemented through the supplier chain. The SMC Chief Engineer maintains a coordinated
master list of compliance documents, entitled Compliance Documents for SMC Acquisitions.
The list includes the minimum essential government, industry, professional and international
S&S for SMC’s total portfolio of launch vehicles, space vehicles, ground systems, user
equipment, missile systems, facilities and research.
2                                                                                           SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009


This policy applies to all new SMC/CC/AFPEO-Space development, acquisition and sustainment
contracts, including new contracts for legacy programs. The necessary S&S will be placed on
contract, as part of the program’s baseline and the Program Office shall enforce them. Any issues
on specifications, standards or implementation that arise between SMC/EA and SMC/Wings and
Staff Organizations will be brought forward to SMC/CC/AFPEO-Space for resolution.

       1.      Introduction. ...........................................................................................................    2
       2.      Organizational Roles and Responsibilities related to S&S. ...................................                                4
       3.      Development of SMC Compliance Standards. ......................................................                              5
Figure 1.      Summary of SMC Compliance Standards Development Process. .........................                                           8
       4.      SMC S&S Information Management. ....................................................................                        10
       5.      Application of SMC Compliance Standards. .........................................................                          11
Figure 2.      SMC Compliance Standards Coordination. ...........................................................                          14
       6.      Training On Use & Generation of S&S. ................................................................                       16

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             18


1. Introduction. The use of specifications and standards (S&S) as part of the SMC acquisition
process is a key element of the Systems Engineering Revitalization effort. Sources of S&S
include Government, FFRDC (The Aerospace Corporation), industry, and professional societies
including IEEE, ISO, and AIAA. S&S selected for the technical baseline were reviewed in light
of current acquisition and program execution practices, life cycle systems engineering
policies/instructions, and new technical knowledge. They will be updated, revised, and tailored
as appropriate for use by SMC.
    1.1. Background. Prior to acquisition reform, use of military S&S in Request For Proposal
    (RFP), contracts and program management practices was one of the primary
    methods/approaches used to define technical requirements, manage contractor performance,
    and incorporate significant lessons learned. One key element of acquisition reform was to
    restrict the Government from contractually dictating prescriptive ―how-to‖ instructions or
    processes used by contractor(s). For a decade this restriction limited and reduced the use of
    S&S in RFPs, proposal evaluations, contractor performance assessments, and on contracts as
    compliance documents. The unintentional result was the compromise of technical baselines
    and established/successful processes. Reorganizations and consolidations of units, missions,
    and facilities, and reductions in assigned Government personnel and industry support
    inadvertently hampered our ability to use lessons learned to prevent repetition of past
    mistakes. The reintroduction of S&S is not intended to restore the very large number of
    standards of the past but, rather, to implement standards that are known to reduce acquisition
    risk and improve overall system/mission effectiveness.
    1.2. Objectives. The timing of the insertion of S&S into an acquisition will directly affect
    the success of the acquisition. The early identification of appropriate S&S into the acquisition
    stream should assist the SMC Wings and Staff Organizations to assure mission success.
    Failure to implement an effective system acquisition program can range from catastrophic
SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009                                                                    3


  failure of a system to degraded system performance and/or higher sustainment costs. Launch
  and satellite system failures threaten national security, decrease system operational
  availability and significantly increase program life cycle cost. Degraded performance of on-
  orbit satellites reduces in-service duration and system operational effectiveness. Similarly,
  ground and user platform system-level and component-level problems and design shortfalls
  can decrease system availability, substantially increase program maintenance costs, and can
  lead to failures of the military mission. Hence, the effective and efficient insertion of
  appropriate S&S for system acquisitions early can yield significant benefits. Toward that
  end, the specific objectives of the SMC S&S program include:
     1.2.1. Establishment of a technical baseline for SMC acquisitions including a minimum
     set of compliance S&S for incorporation into SMC acquisition contracts.
     1.2.2. Flexibility in SMC Wing’s implementation of S&S, based on the needs of each
     specific contract.
     1.2.3. Flexibility in SMC offeror/contactor implementation, including allowing proposal
     of alternative approaches to meeting the intent of the SMC Compliance S&S.
  1.3. Applicability. This operating instruction applies to all SMC Wings and all new
  contracts, or modifications to existing contracts, executed by SMC/AFPEO-Space, including
  new contracts on heritage programs.
  1.4. SMC/CC S&S Policy. The SMC policy mandates the use of S&S as an integral
  element of SMC acquisition, contracting, and program management. There is no intent to
  return to the pre-acquisition reform approach of using excessive S&S prescribing detailed
  processes. The list of high-priority critical S&S has been established for use in the
  acquisition process. This list includes two categories of documents:
     1.4.1. Those which contribute to mission success (areas that caused failures, caused
     significant launch delays, shortened mission life, reduced performance, caused excessive
     rework, or generated important lessons learned)
     1.4.2. Those needed for effective program implementation (insight into program
     performance or status, risk reduction, evaluations and analysis, and critical process
     definitions).
  1.5. SMC S&S Overview. Specifications and standards are to be used as an integral part of
  the acquisition process in RFPs, contracts, management practices, and selection of
  compliance documents. The SMC Chief Engineer is responsible for the development,
  coordination, and maintenance of the master list of SMC Compliance S&Ss, which are
  published as the Compliance Documents for SMC Acquisitions, hereafter referred to a ―SMC
  Compliance Standards‖. The SMC Compliance Standards list shall be used in all new
  acquisitions, including new contracts on legacy programs, and on legacy programs to modify
  existing contracts. SMC Wings and Staff Organizations may tailor the SMC Compliance
  Standards list, or the S&S themselves, in accordance with the unique
  characteristics/requirements of their specific acquisition. The most current SMC Compliance
  Standards list can be found on the SMC/EA Livelink site or can be requested from
  SMC/EAE. The SMC Compliance Standards list is updated periodically. Notice of update
  will be sent to all SMC Wing Commanders, Chief Engineers, EA/PI Division Chiefs,
4                                                             SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009


    applicable FFRDC and SETA/SE&I Contractors, space-related government organizations,
    and space-development industry.
2. Organizational Roles and Responsibilities related to S&S.
    2.1. Program Executive Officer (PEO)
       2.1.1. Approve and direct space system acquisition policy formulation and its
       implementation.
    2.2. SMC Commander (CC)
       2.2.1. Provide resolution of S&S implementation disagreements, as required.
    2.3. SMC Directorate of Engineering and Architectures (SMC/EA)
       2.3.1. Establish and maintain the master SMC Compliance Standards list.
       2.3.2. Manage the configuration of approved S&S and associated SMC Commanders
       policies or SMC Instructions.
       2.3.3. Identify the organization responsible for S&S development/revision within each
       S&S technical area.
       2.3.4. Approve drafts of new or revised S&S.
       2.3.5. Prepare processes for implementation of S&S in RFPs, source selection, and
       contracts.
       2.3.6. Review and approve SMC Wing tailoring of S&S for new acquisition contracts.
       This is a subset of the functions included in the overall technical review of RFPs that are
       performed by the SMC/EA Engineering Acquisition Support Team (EAST).
       2.3.7. Maintain database of S&S in use on all SMC contracts.
       2.3.8. Interface with other space system developing agencies and the contractor
       community for coordination and continuous improvement of S&S programs.
    2.4. Acquisition Center of Excellence (SMC/PI ACE)
       2.4.1. Provide advice and expertise to the Center’s Acquisition personnel. ACE provides
       the wings with the initial set of SMC Compliance S&S at the inception of a new
       acquisition preparation activity and assures proper integration of the tailored and
       approved list of SMC Compliance S&S into the acquisition package and contract.
    2.5. SMC Wings.
       2.5.1. Implement S&S in accordance with this instruction and the Commanders Policy
       letter.
       2.5.2. Provide access to program acquisition documents to staff organizations executing
       the SMC S&S program.
       2.5.3. Prepare recommended selection and tailoring of S&S for each new acquisition
       contract, or major re-baseline of existing contracts.
       2.5.4. Participate actively in the SMC/EA S&S review and approval process for
       acquisition contracts.
SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009                                                                    5


      2.5.5. Conduct reviews of heritage programs and existing contracts to assess the benefits
      of adding S&S, upon mutual agreement of Wing and SMC/EA.
      2.5.6. Upon request of SMC/EA or EAE, review and comment on S&S being newly
      developed or revised.
   2.6. SMC Staff Organizations (e.g. SMC/PI, SE).
      2.6.1. Participate actively in the SMC Compliance Standards list review and approval
      process.
      2.6.2. Support impact studies, coordination, resolution, and approval actions involving
      S&S.
      2.6.3. Provide leadership in the development and revision of S&S within the technical
      area of each staff organization.
      2.6.4. Upon request of SMC/EA or EAE, review and comment other S&S being newly
      developed or revised that may not be directly within the staff organization’s technical
      area.
   2.7. Other National Security Agencies (e.g., NRO, MDA, NASA).
      2.7.1. Support the development of compliance and reference documents, discussions of
      status, technical reviews of documents, and other related activities of mutual benefit.
      2.7.2. Support efforts to coordinate and/or normalize the S&S used across the breadth of
      space system procurements.
   2.8. Development Contractors.
      2.8.1. May be requested to participate in and support review(s) of proposed S&S for the
      SMC Compliance Standards list.
      2.8.2. May be requested to provide responses to SMC/EA regarding content of proposed
      S&S used in the RFP process.
3. Development of SMC Compliance Standards.
   3.1. S&S Working Group (S&SWG). The SMC S&S program is executed by the
   SMC/EA S&S Working Group (S&SWG). The SMC S&SWG is chaired by the SMC
   Engineering and Architectures Division Engineering Branch Chief (SMC/EAE). The
   Executive Committee, comprised of the SMC/EAE Branch Chief and senior members of The
   Aerospace Corporation Corporate Chief Architect/Engineer Division, closely coordinates
   with the SMC Chief Engineers Council to assure proper implementation of current SMC
   management objectives. SMC/EAE support personnel, executes the SMC S&S program with
   the support of SMEs, as required.
      3.1.1. Charter/Purpose. The S&SWG ensures the development, use, and maintenance of
      S&S as an integral element of SMC acquisition processes. The S&SWG will define,
      coordinate, and maintain the SMC Compliance Standards.
      3.1.2. Executive Committee Functions and Responsibilities.
         3.1.2.1. Coordinate S&S Activities and Team Responsibilities.
         3.1.2.2. Identify a pool of SMEs for each technical and program management area.
6                                                           SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009


       3.1.2.3. Identify team leads and members for specific S&S activities.
       3.1.2.4. Establish S&SWG process(es).
       3.1.2.5. Review S&S activities (current and proposed) for applicability, prioritization
       and funding.
    3.1.3. S&SWG Membership. Core membership will be approved by SMC/EAE and may
    be augmented as required from resources available to SMC, including members of SMC
    Wings and Staff Organizations, the Aerospace Corporation, and SMC SETA/SE&I
    contractors. Responsibilities include, but are not limited to, management and assistance in
    the preparation of new/revised S&S and recommended tailoring. Sources include Military
    Standards (including cancelled standards), government standards, industry standards,
    technical society standards, international standards, etc.
    3.1.4. Subject Matter Experts (SMEs). SMEs are highly-experienced specialists in
    specific technical disciplines who can render authoritative and definitive judgment on
    technical processes and criteria. SMEs will be identified from resources available to
    SMC, including The Aerospace Corporation ETG or SPO-support personnel,
    SETA/SE&I contractors, or other government personnel. In Integrated Project Team
    S&S efforts, SMEs can also be solicited from the contractor community. SMEs are
    tasked to conduct the following types of activities:
       3.1.4.1. Analyzing failures, major anomalies, major delays for use in prioritization
       and correlation with S&S.
       3.1.4.2. Providing lessons learned data and implications for center-wide S&S.
       3.1.4.3. Support SMC/EA (and other space-related agency) processes for prioritizing
       and approving S&S and policies.
       3.1.4.4. Author and/or review draft and final S&S.
       3.1.4.5. Support acquisition teams in specific areas of technical expertise.
    3.1.5. S&SWG Interfaces. S&SWG Members will interface with a variety of SMC
    acquisition-related activities in the course of their responsibilities, including:
       3.1.5.1. SMC Chief Engineer’s Council – senior advisory panel for S&S issues.
       3.1.5.2. SMC/Wings and Staff Organizations.
       3.1.5.3. The Aerospace Corporation and technical experts from the SETA/SE&I and
       development contractor communities.
       3.1.5.4. Acquisition Center of Excellence (SMC/ACE).
       3.1.5.5. SMC/EA Engineering Acquisition Support Team (EAST).
       3.1.5.6. Aerospace Standards Advisory Panel (ASAP) and S&S Community of
       Practice (CoP).
       3.1.5.7. Space Quality Improvement Council (SQIC), Space Parts Working Group,
       and other industry forums or associations.
       3.1.5.8. Other National Security Agencies, e.g., NRO, MDA, NASA, etc.
SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009                                                                      7


  3.2. SMC Compliance Standards List Development Process. Section 3.2 provides
  elements, i.e., criteria, for consideration in the process for nominating and approving S&S for
  development and inclusion in the SMC technical baseline, formally published as the
  Compliance Documents for SMC Acquisitions (Also known as SMC Compliance Standards).
  SMC standards provide contractor requirements; government requirements are to be
  documented in SMC Instructions. Each standard will include appropriate contractual
  language, i.e., ―shall,‖ and should concentrate on the inclusion of requirements rather than
  philosophy or prescriptive processes. Development of S&S for the SMC Compliance
  Standards began from an initial listing for an ongoing SMC acquisition program.
  Development has evolved into a continuing process. Figure 1, Summary of SMC Compliance
  Standards List Development Process, depicts the overall SMC Compliance Standards list
  development process. There are two published products generated by this process: Approved
  SMC Compliance Standards and a Standards-in-Process list. The Standards-in-Process list is
  coordinated with NRO since most standards development is either jointly funded, or
  performed by SMEs who serve both communities. The process depicted to the left of the
  Standards-in-Process list box is a generic depiction of the review and approval of standards
  funded by SMC/NRO. The process depicted above the Standards-in-Process list box shows
  the internal (SMC) coordination process by which new/modified standards are formally
  approved for integration into the SMC Compliance Standards list. The Core membership of
  the SMC S&SWG facilitates and manages the process. It includes participation and
  coordination of SMC Wings, SMC Staff Organizations, elements of the NRO, Aerospace
  Corporation, industry activities, and professional societies. The process begins with the
  current approved SMC Compliance Standards list, progresses though the development of
  standards in the process list, culminating in coordination and concurrence, SMC Chief
  Engineer approval and publication as a revision to the approved SMC Compliance Standards
  list.
8                                                                             SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009


Figure 1. Summary of SMC Compliance Standards Development Process.




                                         Author
                 Aerospace              New Std
                 Standards                         Tailor Std for
                  Advisory                        Space Systems               Standards
                   Panel
                                                                                  In
                                       Update
                 Wing/Staff          Existing Std                              Process
                 Experience
                                                      Formalize
                                                                                 List
                                                     Interim Std

                   NRO                  Needs Analysis
               Coordination
                and/or joint
                 Funding                              Author
                                                  Draft Standard

                        Standards
                                                          Peer & Staff
                       Development
                                                            Review
                         Bodies

                         Industry                                   Publish
                    Working Groups                                 Standard
                   & Informal Reviews

                                               Standards Development

                                Development               Justify Change
                                Contractors                To Stds List
                               Formal Review
                                                                                            SMC
                                                                    Staff Review
                           NRO & NSS                               of List Changes
                                                                                          Compliance
                          Standards List                                                  Standards
                           Coordination                      SMC/EA
                                                                                             List
      3.2.1. Analysis of Critical Functional/Technical Approval
                                                              Areas. Identification of Critical
      Functional and Technical Areas and disciplines is central to effective and efficient
      progress toward mission success. Documents         to be considered for nomination and
                                                   Approval/Release
      approval for inclusion in the SMC Compliance Standards list must include elements of
      critical functional and technical disciplines which:
         3.2.1.1. Contribute to Mission Success (technical).
             3.2.1.1.1. Areas that caused failures or anomalies.
             3.2.1.1.2. Caused launch delays.
             3.2.1.1.3. Limited system life expectancy.
             3.2.1.1.4. Reduced system performance.
             3.2.1.1.5. . Caused excessive rework.
             3.2.1.1.6. Generated important lessons learned.
SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009                                                                     9


        3.2.1.2. Contribute to Program Execution Success (program and technical
        management).
            3.2.1.2.1. Demonstrate effective and successful implementation.
            3.2.1.2.2. Are required for Government insight into program performance and
            status.
            3.2.1.2.3. Improve risk reduction.
            3.2.1.2.4. Are critical for performing proper analysis and evaluation.
            3.2.1.2.5. Define industry accepted critical processes, procedures, or methods.
            3.2.1.2.6. Are necessary to properly execute a program.
     3.2.2. Perform Critical Needs Analysis
        3.2.2.1. SMC/EA will review the current SMC Compliance Standards list twice a
        year and reconcile that list with a needs analysis.
        3.2.2.2. Needs analysis may be a formal, independent analysis or may result from
        other sources of knowledge, including inter-agency standardization efforts, input
        from SMEs, or recommendations from industry.
        3.2.2.3. Upon determination of a need that should be filled, SMC/EA will determine
        an estimate of the updating effort prior to committing to any significant review or
        revision efforts.
        3.2.2.4. Specifications or standards on the SMC Compliance Standards list that no
        longer meet the critical needs criteria will be nominated and considered for deletion.
        Any critical needs area not currently included, or determined to be inadequate, will
        require nomination of existing or new standard(s) to fill that need.
     3.2.3. Generating the SMC Compliance Standards list
        3.2.3.1. SMC/EA will periodically review and/or issue the SMC Compliance
        Standards list as significant changes to S&S occur, or at a minimum of once a year.
        3.2.3.2. All specifications or standards nominated for, or included in, the SMC
        Compliance Standards list must be supported by the critical needs criteria delineated
        above.
        3.2.3.3. Document types eligible for inclusion in the SMC Compliance Standards list
        include:
            3.2.3.3.1. Military S&S (active or cancelled)
            3.2.3.3.2. Industry standards documents, e.g. ISO, GEIA, AIAA
            3.2.3.3.3. Space and Missile Systems Center Standards
            3.2.3.3.4. The Aerospace Corporation publications written as standards, e.g.
            Technical Operating Reports (TORs) or Technical Reports (TRs)
        3.2.3.4. The impact of additions, equivalent/replacement, or deleted standards to the
        SMC Compliance Standards list will be subjected to the scrutiny of the appropriate
        technical or acquisition SMEs.
10                                                             SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009


            3.2.3.5. SMC/EA will coordinate proposed changes to the SMC Compliance
            Standards list with the 2-letter staff organizations that may be adversely impacted by
            changes, including SMC/PIL (Logistics), SMC/SES (Safety) and SMC/PIP (Program
            Protection). Each organization with whom this list is coordinated will be solicited for
            a coordination signature indicating concurrence, concurrence with comments, or non-
            concurrence.
            3.2.3.6. Resolution to any coordination resulting in either concurrence with
            comments or non-concurrence will be moderated by SMC/EAE. Any issues that
            cannot be resolved to the satisfaction of all parties will be elevated to SMC/EA for
            presentation of the technical issues and a binding resolution by the SMC Chief
            Engineer.
        3.2.4. SMC Approval of SMC Compliance Standards list. The signature authority for
        the SMC Compliance Standards list is the SMC Chief Engineer (SMC/EA). SMC/EA
        will sign the initial SMC Compliance Standards list, and each update of that list.
     3.3. Interface with National Security & Other Government Agencies. The SMC Core
     team, supported by SMEs, will coordinate with other National Security Space acquisition
     agencies, as well as other related agencies with interest in Space System S&S. on a regular
     basis. Coordination will include determination of need/priority for development/update of
     specific S&S, joint funding of S&S development and comparative analysis of specific S&S
     or organizational S&S compliance lists.
4. SMC S&S Information Management.
     4.1. Compliance Documents Archive. SMC/EAE will archive the SMC Compliance S&S
     and provide access to these archives to all SMC Wings and Staff organizations. The S&S
     archive will include:
        4.1.1. SMC Compliance Standards, and Standards in Process List
        4.1.2. Approved SMC compliance documents, present and past, including Aerospace
        TORs
        4.1.3. Status of SMC Compliance Standards program
        4.1.4. SMC S&S program governance documents
        4.1.5. SMC S&S program process and support tools
     4.2. S&S Document Distribution. The approved SMC Compliance Standards list will be
     disseminated on the widest possible basis.            SMC/EA’s primary method of S&S
     documentation distribution is USAF LiveLink in a repository established and maintained by
     SMC/EAE. Access will be provided to all SMC Wings and Staff organizations. An
     informational message will be provided to all SMC/Wings and Staff Organizations
     (Executive Officers, Chief Engineers, and the SMC Chief Engineers’ Council). The
     Aerospace Corporation will publish a Technical Operating Report (TOR) documenting the
     signed SMC Compliance Standards list, S&S program status, summary of changes from the
     prior version, and list of standards-in-process that may result in a future update to the SMC
     Compliance Standards list. An additional Aerospace TOR, in the form of a compact disc
     (CD), will be published containing the distributable S&S documents comprising the SMC
     Compliance Standards list. The Aerospace TORs will be distributed to:
SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009                                                                       11


       4.2.1. The Aerospace Corporation management and MTS supporting SMC Staff and
       Wings or standards development
       4.2.2. SMC EA personnel
       4.2.3. SMC/Aerospace Chief Engineers
       4.2.4. SMC SETA/SE&I contractor support community
       4.2.5. Other National Security Space agencies, and
       4.2.6. Contractors/Industry including SMC prime contractors, subcontractors and
       vendors. Each organization receiving a copy of the SMC Compliance Standards list,
       notification of update, or Aerospace TOR documenting the SMC S&S Program shall
       disseminate the list throughout their respective organization. SMC Wings may request a
       licensed copy of AIAA standards for exclusive use by the Wing from SMC/EAE. Copies
       will be provided if SMC/EAE has licensed copies available, otherwise the SMC Wings
       will need to obtain a licensed copy from the appropriate source (e.g. industry association
       or document clearinghouse). SMC-licensed copies of commercial standards cannot be
       provided to contractors or placed in a bidder’s library for open use.
   4.3. RFP/Contract S&S Profile Repository. The approved SMC Compliance Standards
   list that has been jointly approved by Wing Commander and SMC/EA for each RFP will be
   maintained in an on-line repository by SMC/EA. These lists shall include all tailoring and
   waivers or changes made during negotiations for the initial contract award.
5. Application of SMC Compliance Standards. The application of S&S to acquisitions begins
with the approved set of compliance standards (SMC Compliance Standards) which are
customized to match the acquisition program’s objectives, taking into account cost, schedule and
any other constraints. This involves SMC/EA working with each SMC program chief engineer.
The SMC/EA (Chief Engineer) will review and sign off on the final negotiated S&S list which
will establish the S&S baseline for the acquisition contract. SMC Wings shall coordinate S&S
tailoring activities for each RFP with SMC/EA and PI, beginning early in the RFP development
and continue through issuance of the contract. The tailoring process includes selection of
applicable standards from the SMC Compliance Standards list as well as detailed tailoring of the
individual standards. The SMC Compliance Standards list in effect at the time of the contracts’
final two-letter Acquisition Strategy Panel shall be used. Additional compliance standards may
be proposed by the Wing to meet program-peculiar requirements. Tailored S&S by SMC Wings
must maintain the intent and spirit of the SMC S&S program in terms of both relevancy and
sufficiency. This including tailoring of the SMC Compliance Standards list and additional
program-peculiar standards, tailoring of the requirements within individual S&S, or inclusion of
contractor-proposed additional tailoring or alternatives identified during the draft RFP process or
industry days. The specific tailoring of the SMC Compliance Standards list and individual S&S
to be invoked in each particular acquisition is subject to the review and approval of the SMC
Chief Engineer.
   5.1. Specifications and Standards in RFP Development Process. SMC/EA will facilitate
   and coordinate the SMC Wing application of SMC Compliance Standards list to SMC
   acquisitions. SMC/EA will work in cooperation with the Wings and staff organizations with
   acquisition and/or contracting responsibilities. SMC/EA support activities include:
12                                                         SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009


     5.1.1. Recommending SMC technical baseline compliance documents for use in specific
     acquisitions.
     5.1.2. Reviewing and evaluating acquisition program documents relative to specific
     SMC acquisition contracts.
     5.1.3. Reviewing and evaluating recommended tailoring of SMC Compliance Standards
     list documents.
     5.1.4. Approving SMC Compliance Standards list documents for use in specific
     acquisition contracts.
        5.1.1.1. Scope of RFP Discussions. The following support products and activities
        will be provided by SMC/EA to SMC Wings and/or ACE to facilitate the
        development of acquisition packages:
           5.1.1.1.1. SMC Compliance Standards list.
           5.1.1.1.2. SMC Compliance Standards documents from the SMC Compliance
           Standards list and sources for copyrighted or limited distribution documents.
           5.1.1.1.3. References for SMC/EA recommended SMEs.
           5.1.1.1.4. SMC/EA and/or SME review/comment on program-specific
           selection/tailoring of standards from the SMC Compliance Standards list,
           including additional standards proposed to be added by the Wing.
           5.1.1.1.5. SMC/EA review/comment on proposed standards tailoring for RFPs.
           5.1.1.1.6. SMC/EA facilitation (as required) of SME assessments and reviews.
           5.1.1.1.7. SMC/EA approval of the completed standards selection/tailoring for
           specific SMC acquisition contracts.
        5.1.2.1. Wing/EA Discussion of Acquisition Details. SMC Wings will provide
        program documentation and briefings/discussion With SMC/EA and other involved
        staff organizations to establish the necessary technical foundations for successful
        execution of this process, including discussions of:
           5.1.2.1.1. Acquisition and anticipated project schedule.
           5.1.2.1.2. Proposed acquisition strategy.
           5.1.2.1.3. System architecture description.
           5.1.2.1.4. Interfaces.
           5.1.2.1.5. Project technical requirements.
           5.1.2.1.6. Any other pertinent acquisition details.
        5.1.3.1. Preparation of Compliance Standards and Tailoring for RFPs.
           5.1.3.1.1. SMC/EA prepares a recommended compliance standards list for the
           acquisition program by selecting from the SMC Compliance Standards list and
           assisting SMC Wings and SMC Staff Organizations in tailoring to meet program
           objectives .
SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009                                                                13


           5.1.3.1.2. SMEs support SMC Wings and Staff Organizations through assisting in
           tailoring proposed compliance standards.
           5.1.3.1.3. SMC Wings and Staff Organizations provide justification of S&S
           selection from the SMC Compliance S&S List, any additional standards added by
           the Wing, tailoring of standards, and selection of any reference documents.
           5.1.3.1.4. SMC/EA reviews SMC Wings and Staff Organizations recommended
           Compliance Standards and any associated tailoring
        5.1.4.1. Coordination/Review of       Proposed Compliance Standards for RFPs.
        Coordination of S&S and tailoring begins with selection of compliance standards
        from the current approved SMC Compliance Standards list. This coordination
        process continues throughout the development of the RFP. Figure 3, SMC
        Compliance Standards Coordination, depicts the overall SMC/EA coordination
        process. The SMC S&SWG facilitates and manages the process. It includes
        participation and coordination of SMC Wings, SMC Staff Organizations, and
        assistance by Aerospace Corporation, and responses to draft RFPs by industry
        activities. The process progresses though SME review and comment, approval of
        selected standards and tailoring, culminating in coordination and concurrence by the
        SMC Chief Engineer, ACE, and Acquisition Strategy Panel (ASP) and publication of
        the final RFP.
           5.1.4.1.1. SMC/EA supports SME and Wing reviews/comments on proposed
           compliance standards.
           5.1.4.1.2. SMC Wings and Staff Organizations /EA jointly agree/approve
           Proposed Compliance Standards and tailoring for RFPs.
           5.1.4.1.3. SMC Wings and Staff Organizations /EA jointly review and respond to
           questions, findings and comments from contractors/offerors resulting from draft
           RFP releases or source selection clarification requests.
           5.1.4.1.4. SMC/EA maintains repository of formally approved S&S list and
           associated tailoring for each SMC RFP.
           5.1.4.1.5. SMC/EA and Wing Commander jointly formally approves S&S in final
           RFP package and contract.
           5.1.4.1.6. During source selection, Wing Commander provides SMC/EA with
           any deviations from the formally agreed S&S list in the RFP; resolution to
           deviations must be approved by SMC/EA prior to contract award.
           5.1.4.1.7. Upon contract award, Wing Commander submits copy of contract to
           SMC/EA prove compliance with agreed-upon S&S.
           5.1.4.1.8. At contract award and during contract execution, any deviations from
           the agreed-upon S&S must be coordinated with SMC/EA. Any changes during
           contract execution will be documented in the conformed contract.
14                                                                      SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009


Figure 2. SMC Compliance Standards Coordination.



                                 SMC Compliance Standards
                                       Policy & List




                                       Acquisition
                                        Strategy                                Industry Forums
                                                       Tailor List to           (e.g. Industry Days)
                                                     appropriate Stds

                                         Tailor Stds                            Subject-Matter
                                      to requirements                           Experts

                                                         Specify
                                                       DIDs/CDRLs


                                       Acquisition Planning                           STAFF REVIEW
                                                                                      (e.g. SMC ACE/EAST)
                                                   Develop
                                                 RFP SOW, etc.

                                                                      Refine
                                                                   Stds tailoring
                                                                                            Bidding
                                                  Eval. Proposed                            Contractor
                                                   Alternatives                             Comments
                                                                     Develop
                                                                    Eval Criteria           Subject-Matter
                                                                                            Experts
                                                Draft RFP Development

                                                                 Issue
                                                               Solicitation
                                                                                                     Contract
                                                                                                      Award
                                                                          Train
                                                                        Eval. Team                     With
                                                                                                   Compliance
                                                                              Evaluate              Standards
                                                                              Proposals


     5.2. Source Selection Support.                            Formal Solicitation
        5.2.1. SMC/EA will support source selection as an as needed, as requested basis. This
        support will include, but is not limited to:
           5.2.1.1. Reference to, or supply of, SMEs to review S&S section of Offeror(s)
           proposal.
           5.2.1.2. SMC/EA review of S&S section of Offeror(s) proposal.
           5.2.1.3. Development of clarification questions for contractors based on S&S section
           of Offeror(s) proposal.
SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009                                                                   15


        5.2.1.4. Source selection evaluation criteria score advise based on Offeror(s)
        proposal
     5.2.2. Further tailoring of S&S during the proposal submittal/evaluation phase, such as
     contractor-specific implementation approaches (internal command media) can be
     proposed to satisfy the intent of the specification/standard specified in the RFP.
     Contractor-proposed tailoring or alternatives must be carefully evaluated by the Source
     Selection Authority to ensure the Government-industrial partnership is appropriately
     accountable to sound technical disciplines and the intent of the SMC S&S program.
     Proof of equivalency provided by the Offeror(s) shall be evaluated to ensure that the
     intent and technical rigor of the SMC Compliance standard is maintained (See Figure 2).
     5.2.3. If Offeror proposed alternatives/implementations are found to be stable and the
     technical equivalent to the respective SMC Compliance Standard, the Offeror(s)
     proposed alternative must be formally incorporated into the contract as the SMC-
     approved equivalent compliance document.
     5.2.4. All S&S included in the contract shall be monitored and evaluated by the SMC
     Wing throughout the acquisition to assure proper implementation.
  5.3. Assessment of SMC Compliance Standards on Existing Contracts.
     5.3.1. SMC Wings and Staff Organizations should assess the impacts and
     cost/performance benefits of implementing the SMC compliance S&S on existing
     contracts, or changes to existing contracts. The assessment shall be conducted in
     conjunction with program re-baselining of requirements/funding, or ECPs occurring prior
     to CDR and above the limit set in the contract’s changes or swing clause. This assessment
     should be completed as soon as practical and coordinated with the SMC Chief Engineer.
     5.3.2. A S&S assessment will be conducted for each legacy acquisition contract but may
     be waived by mutual consent of Wing Commander and SMC Chief Engineer. The
     following criteria should be considered:
        5.3.2.1. Class of program (per Mil-Handbook 1833).
        5.3.2.2. Probability of acquiring required funding.
        5.3.2.3. Number of remaining launches.
        5.3.2.4. Criticality of launches.
        5.3.2.5. Ground system operating life.
        5.3.2.6. Probability of improving program execution success.
     5.3.3. Documentation of the S&S assessment performed should include:
        5.3.3.1. Assessment methodology.
        5.3.3.2. List of S&S evaluated (SMC compliance and alternatives)
        5.3.3.3. S&S evaluations, including
            5.3.3.3.1. Technical requirements/merit assessment of each S&S or alternative
            5.3.3.3.2. Basis of S&S selection (e.g. cost, schedule, performance, and contract
16                                                              SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009


               executability impacts) and
               5.3.3.3.3. Required tailoring of selected S&S.
            5.3.3.4. List of selected S&S, including specific tailoring language
            5.3.3.5. Responses to SMC/EA review comments.
            5.3.3.6. Action plan for implementation of S&S.
        5.3.4. SMC Wings conducting S&S assessments will provide assessment results to
        SMC/EA for review and approval.
     5.4. Monitoring S&S Execution During Contract. SMC/EA shall support the SMC
     Commander and/or Vice-Commander (SMC/CC/CV) Program Management Reviews
     (PMRs) to review all technical issues, including assessing the execution of S&S on each
     program. The Wing Commander will inform SMC/EA of any technical issues related to the
     execution of the contractual S&S for a joint resolution or plan of action. The Wing
     Commander will inform SMC/EA of any S&S issues to be discussed at formal technical
     reviews (e.g. SRR, SDR, PDR, CDR). SMC/EA will support these reviews to independently
     assess and facilitate resolution of the S&S-related issues. SMC/EA shall, as appropriate,
     conduct random or periodic monitoring of any SMC contract to assess implantation of the
     contractually-required S&S.
     5.5. Resolution of Disagreements. As specified in Section 3.2 of this document, the SMC
     Chief Engineer (SMC/EA) is the principal decision authority for the SMC Compliance S&S
     program. Should irresolvable differences of opinion occur, elevation of the issue to
     SMC/CC/AFPEO-Space may be required.
        5.5.1. Presentation to SMC/CC/AFPEO-Space. Presentations by SMC Wings and Staff
        Organizations must include concise statements of:
            5.5.1.1. The issue to be resolved.
            5.5.1.2. Reason(s) for which the issue could not be resolved at the Chief Engineer
            level.
            5.5.1.3. Supporting data or study findings, including documentation of impact on the
            SMC Wing/Staff organizations and/or contract execution funding and schedule.
            5.5.1.4. Recommended resolution.
        5.5.2. SMC/CC/AFPEO-Space Resolution of Disagreements.                     The decision of
        SMC/CC/PEO-Space will be final and binding.
6. Training On Use & Generation of S&S.
     6.1. Training courses. SMC/EAE will prepare and deliver training courses on the SMC
     S&S program implementation. Course attendance shall be mandatory for SMC and support
     personnel involved in preparation/revision of standards or the planning, processing, or
     preparing elements of RFPs. Training course content will include discussions and
     descriptions of the following:
        6.1.1. Standards: Use & Value in Acquisition – How definition of technical requirements
        helps manage contractor performance.
SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009                                                                17


     6.1.2. Incorporating S&S into solicitations (e.g., RFI, RFQ, RFP) for new contracts and
     modifications to existing contracts – How use of significant lessons learned prevents
     repetition of past mistakes.
     6.1.3. Guidance for Tailoring S&S – How standards are customized to support program
     requirements and objectives.
     6.1.4. Evaluating During Source Selection – How to confirm program requirements and
     objectives are in RFPs.
     6.1.5. Preparing New or Revised Standards – How to assure standards are technically
     comprehensive and current state of the art.




                                         JAMES R. HOREJSI, Col, USAF
                                         SMC Chief Engineer
18                                                         SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACE—Acquisition Center of Excellence
AF—Air Force
AIAA—American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics
ASAP—Aerospace Standards Advisory Panel
ASP—Acquisition Strategy Panel;
CC—SMC Commander
CV—SMC Vice Commander
DSAB—Defense Space Acquisition Board
EAST—Engineering Acquisition Support Team
EIA—Electronics Industries Alliance
ETTA—Engineering, Technical, Test/Evaluation, and Architecting
FFRDC—Federally Funded Research and Development Centers
IEEE—Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
IPA—Program Assessments
ISO—International Organization for Standardization
MDA—Missile Defense Agency
Mil-Standards—Military standards
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NRO—National Reconnaissance Office
NSS—National Security Space
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness
PEO—Program Executive Officer
PSAB—PEO Space Acquisition Board
RFP—Request for Proposal
SER—System Engineering Revitalization
SETA—System Engineering and Technical Assistance
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SMC OI—SMC Office Instruction
SMC/EA—SMC Directorate of Engineering and Architectures
SMCI63-106 1 OCTOBER 2009                                                                      19


SMCI—SMC Instruction
SME—Subject Matter Expert
S&S—Specifications and Standards
SPO—System Program Office
SQIC—Space Quality Improvement Council
TOR—Technical Operating Report
TR—Technical Report
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USAF—United States Air Force

Terms
Specification— 1 A document that prescribes, in a complete, precise, verifiable manner, the
requirements, design, behavior, or characteristics of a system or system component. [IEEE 93b]
Standard—2(a) A document, established by consensus and approved by an accredited standards
development organization, that provides for common and repeated use, rules, guidelines, or
characteristics for activities or their results, aimed at the achievement of the optimum degree of
order        and       consistency         in       a      given      context.      [IEEE      91]
              (b) Something set up and established by authority, custom, or general consent as a
rule for the measure of quantity, weight, extent, value, or quality as a model or example.
Technical Area—The taxonomy of technical disciplines use as an organization method in the
Compliance Documents for SMC Acquisition list (column 1)




1
 Software Engineering Institute (SEI). SEI Open Systems Glossary.
http://www.sei.cmu.edu/opensystems/glossary.html
2
 Software Engineering Institute (SEI). SEI Open Systems Glossary.
http://www.sei.cmu.edu/opensystems/glossary.html
