BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER
SPACE AND MISSILE SYSTEMS                                        INSTRUCTION 62-110
CENTER
                                                                                24 JULY 2014

                                                                  Developmental Engineering

                                                             SPACE DEBRIS MITIGATION
                                                                       MANAGEMENT


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: SMC/ENC                                                            Certified by: SMC/EN
                                                                      (SES Thomas Fitzgerald)
                                                                                       Pages: 7




This Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC) Instruction (SMCI) implements SMC Space
Debris Policy and Requirements set forth in National Space Policy, Department of Defense
Instruction (DoDI) 3100.12, Space Support and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 91-217, Space
Safety and Mishap Prevention Program by assigning responsibilities and establishing procedures
for SMC in the mitigation and control of space debris. Among the core responsibilities of all
space programs/projects is the long-term sustainability of space. This requires the assessment
and minimization of orbital lifetime, released debris on orbit and probability of collision and
explosion in all earth orbits. In addition, the environmental and public safety impacts from
randomly reentering space debris must be mitigated in accordance with (IAW) current policy.
Failure to incorporate debris management early in the system design process will increase space
system vulnerabilities and lead to decreased satellite space situational awareness.

The policy for SMC missions is full compliance with national, Department of Defense (DoD),
United States Air Force (USAF) and SMC space debris requirements and applicable SMC
standards. The Office of the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF) has directed SMC to develop a
plan to eliminate debris exceptions reported through the SECDEF (see Section 1.2.2). This SMC
Instruction initiates this process. New policies subsequently published at higher levels that
conflict with this SMCI shall take precedence. This instruction uses the terms SPO Director,
Program Director (PD) and Program Manager (PM) as defined by higher-level directives and
current SMC definitions.
 2                                                                 SMCI62-110 24 JULY 2014


In this SMCI, the terms spacecraft and space vehicle (SV) are used interchangeably. Within the
context of the space debris discussion, they mean the same thing: any hardware which is
managed by SMC, apart from non-orbiting launch vehicle (LV) components, launched on an
orbital mission (defined below). The hardware (and hardware required for separation) will
require space debris risk analysis and mitigation.

This SMCI shall be reviewed and updated consistent with policy changes and periodically as
required by current publication instructions. Any suggested changes or comments are to be
submitted to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR: SMC/ENC) for consideration and
disposition. Current debris reference documents are available from EN upon request.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of primary
responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
the AF Form 847 from the field through the base publications/forms managers. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS).


1. Space Debris Management Overview. Space debris mitigation management shall be an
integral part of the design as well as the review processes defined in SMC Standard 21 (SMC-S-
021), Technical Reviews and Audits for Systems Equipment and Computer Software. Space
debris mitigation management, where applicable, is also an element in the Systems Engineering
Plan (SEP), the Risk Management Plan (RMP), the Programmatic Environment, Safety, and
Occupational Health Evaluation (PESHE), the System Safety Management Plan (SSMP), System
Safety Program Plan (SSPP), SMC Space Flight Worthiness (SFW) certification, and space
debris mitigation reporting. This SMCI requires full compliance with space debris requirements
through judicious design, operation, disposal and trade study analysis. Any decision to deviate
from compliance requirements shall be recommended by the PM and/or Program Director and
made by the SMC/CC (AFPEO/SP) based on an assessment of the scope, magnitude, risk/benefit
and impact of the space debris hazard through the asset’s end-of-life disposal.
     1.1. Purpose and Scope. This Instruction provides direction, roles and responsibilities to
     ensure that SMC debris mitigation policies and processes are assessed and incorporated
     throughout the acquisition life cycle.
     1.2. National Space Debris Policy, Requirements and Regulations.
        1.2.1. Under The United Nations Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States
        in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, Including the Moon and Other Celestial
        Bodies (Outer Space Treaty, 1967), the US is liable for property damage or human
        casualty resulting from US space objects. Failure to adequately assess reentry risk could
        lead to property damage and human casualties from uncontrolled, random reentries.
        1.2.2. The US National Space Policy (NSP) requires United States (US) agencies to
        minimize space debris and preserve the space environment. The NSP directs the US to
        follow the United States Government (USG) Orbital Debris Mitigation Standard Practices
        (ODMSP), consistent with mission requirements and cost effectiveness, in the
SMCI62-110 24 JULY 2014                                                                       3


       procurement and operation of launch services and spacecraft and in the conduct of tests
       and experiments in space. For SMC programs that are noncompliant with the USG
       ODMSP, the NSP requires an approval from the Office of the Secretary of Defense for an
       Exception to [National Space] Policy (EtP).
       1.2.3. In accordance with DoDD 3100.10, Space Policy,: “DoD will promote the
       responsible, peaceful and safe use of space, including following the US Government
       (USG) Orbital Debris Mitigation Standard Practices ... ” In addition, DoD Instruction
       (DoDI) 3100.12 paragraphs 6.3 and 6.4 require the minimization of orbital debris and
       planning for end of mission life for programs involving on-orbit operations, consistent
       with USG ODMSP.
       1.2.4. SMC programs and projects must also comply with Air Force Instruction (AFI)
       91-217, Space Safety and Mishap Prevention Program, which is more specific than the
       NSP and DoD requirements. The AFI contains design and operational requirements and
       mandates that programs/projects assess the spacecraft and upper stage(s) for compliance
       with the requirements. A summary of the analysis and documentation of the magnitude
       of noncompliance and the rationale for noncompliance shall be included in the LV Space
       Debris Assessment Report (SDAR) and SV combined SDAR and End of Life Plan
       (SDAR/EOLP) in accordance with the content and format specified in AFI 91-217. The
       requirements for these documents specified by AFI 91-217 are in addition to the USG
       ODMSP [or NSP] requirements for an approved EtP.
          1.2.4.1. As part of normal program execution, documentation of risk acceptance for
          AFI 91-217 noncompliances and EtP approvals for NSP noncompliances shall be
          included with the SDAR/EOLP pre-launch package. Secondary or auxiliary payloads
          are monitored for space debris as they are planned, with different procedures applying
          depending on whether the host is a military or commercial vehicle.
       1.2.4.2. SMC payloads permanently attached to Other Government Agency (OGA) SVs
       shall comply with the OGA's space debris policies. SMC payloads permanently attached
       to commercial SVs shall comply with the commercial SV space debris requirement.
       SMC payloads permanently attached to LV components that remain in orbit shall comply
       with DoD and AF space debris policy. If there are multiple payloads from multiple
       entities attached to the LV components that remain in orbit, the SMC program office
       shall create an MOU to establish space debris policy governance (OGA, Commercial and
       DoD).
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. SMC Commander (SMC/CC)
       2.1.1. Certify space flight worthiness for all AFSPC LVs and SVs IAW AFSPCI 10-
       1208, Spacelift Operations.
       2.1.2. Ensure that required debris mitigation actions are incorporated into SMC SV, LV
       and secondary/auxiliary payload program decisions, as applicable.
       2.1.3. Review and approve space debris assessment documents.
   2.2. Air Force Program Executive Officer for Space (AFPEO/SP)
4                                                                 SMCI62-110 24 JULY 2014


       2.2.1. Decide, consistent with AF policy, on strategies to mitigate space debris and/or
       resolve space debris mitigation compliance issues as required.
    2.3. Program Manager.
       2.3.1. Proactively manage programs/projects for space debris compliance.
       2.3.2. Brief the space debris compliance status of their programs at Program
       Management Reviews (PMRs) or similar venues.
       2.3.3. Plan for total mission (SV plus LV) compliance, within program cost, schedule
       and performance parameters. Debris mitigation shall be addressed in a life cycle
       approach that covers concept development, system design, mission design, launch,
       testing, operations, disposal, reentry and recovery, as applicable. The PM’s appropriate
       systems engineering Integrated Product Team (IPT) acts as a forum to address debris
       mitigation approaches, analyses, trade studies and policy implementation and
       verification. If total mission compliance is not feasible, coordinate with SMC/EN to
       supply required data for risk acceptances and EtP submittals.
       2.3.4. Produce SV SDAR/EOLPs, and LV PMs shall produce SDARs, IAW AFI 91-217.
       2.3.5. Coordinate with SMC/EN and SMC Safety Directorate (SMC/SE) during space
       debris mitigation trades for total SV plus LV mission compliance throughout mission
       development.
       2.3.6. Assess the scope, magnitude and mitigation alternatives to reduce space debris
       non-compliance impacts through end-of-life disposal. Any non-compliance shall be
       managed to limit the risk to other users of space.
       2.3.7. Include space debris mitigation analysis and compliance status in acquisition
       strategies, program technical reviews, program management reviews or equivalent
       reporting events.
       2.3.8. SMC auxiliary or secondary orbital system PMs shall coordinate with SMC/EN on
       the applicable space debris requirements.
    2.4. SMC Staff Offices.
       2.4.1. Support PMs in space debris compliance/mitigation as described in this
       instruction.
    2.5. SMC/EN.
       2.5.1. Publish, maintain, implement and review the SMCI on Space Debris Policy as the
       owner of the SMC space debris mitigation process.
       2.5.2. Administer the SMC Space Debris Working Group (SDWG) IAW the approved
       SMC SDWG charter.
       2.5.3. Develop an enterprise level approach/strategy for mitigating the effects of debris
       on delivering military capabilities.
    2.5.4. Chief Systems Engineer
           2.5.4.1. Serve as the SMC technical review authority for space debris mitigation
           documents.
SMCI62-110 24 JULY 2014                                                                       5


         2.5.4.2. Review space debris mitigation activities and product summaries.
         2.5.4.3. Provide direction to address space debris compliance requirements.
   2.6. SMC Environmental Management Division (SMC/ENC)
      2.6.1. Work with the LV and SV SPOs to develop and coordinate SDARs and EOLPs
      IAW AFI 91-217 and applicable EN policy.
      2.6.2. Coordinate with the SV and LV SPOs, throughout the design of the mission, to
      consider mission trade studies and other alternatives to achieve SV and LV compliance
      IAW Section 2.3.
      2.6.3. Work with the SV, LV and auxiliary system(s) programs to develop and
      coordinate EtP requests as required.
      2.6.4. Participate in discussions/activities/actions on orbital debris policy and disposal
      topics with HQ Air Force Space Command, Air Force Safety Center and other United
      States Government agencies (e.g., NASA, FAA) as well as commercial space operators.
   2.7. SMC/SE.
      2.7.1. Serve as the SMC system safety advisor.
      2.7.2. Review and coordinate SV SDAR/EOLPs and LV SDARs IAW AFI 91-217.
   2.8. SMC System Safety Division (SMC/SES).
      2.8.1. Work with the LV and SV SPOs to coordinate LV SDARs and SV SDAR/EOLPs
      IAW AFI 91-217.
      2.8.2. Coordinate with the SV and LV SPOs, throughout the design of the mission, to
      consider mission trade studies and other alternatives to achieve SV and LV compliance
      IAW Section 2.3.
   2.9. SMC Judge Advocate Contract and Patent Law Division (SMC/JAQ)
      2.9.1. Serve as the legal advisor for SMC on the legal sufficiency of space debris
      management documents where impacts pose public and environmental risk in excess of
      the established normal criteria.
3. Process Requirements.
   3.1. SMC/EN policy implements the space debris mitigation management process IAW
   applicable regulations as referenced in Attachment 1.




                                           ELLEN M. PAWLIKOWSKI, Lt General, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                                              SMCI62-110 24 JULY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
United States National Space Policy (NSP), 28 June 2010
United States Government Orbital Debris Mitigation Standard Practices (USG ODMSP)
Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 3100.10, Space Policy, 18 October 2012
Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3100.12, Space Support, 14 September 2000
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 91-217, Space Safety and Mishap Prevention Program, 17 April
2014
SMC Standard SMC-S-015, End-Of-Life Disposal of Satellites in Geosynchronous Altitude, 13
June 2008
SMC Standard SMC-S-022, End-Of-Life Disposal of Satellites in Low-Earth Orbit,19 March
2010
EN OI 62-217, SMC/EN Space Debris Mitigation Management Process, 2014
Adopted Form
AF form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPEO/SP—Air Force Program Executive Officer for Space (dual hatted as SMC/CC)
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDI—DoD Instruction
EOLP—End-of-Life Plan
EtP—Exception to National Space Policy
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FCC—Federal Communications Commission
FRR—Flight Readiness Review
IAW—In Accordance With
IPT—Integrated Product Team
LV—Launch Vehicle
NASA—National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NSP—US National Space Policy
SMCI62-110 24 JULY 2014                                           7


ODMSP—Orbital Debris Mitigation Standard Practices
OGA—Other Government Agency
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PESHE—Programmatic Environmental Safety and Health Evaluations
PD—Program Director
PM—Program Manager
PMR—Program Management Review
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RMP—Risk Management Plan
SDAR—Space Debris Assessment Report
SDWG—Space Debris Working Group
SEP—Systems Engineering Plan
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
SFW—Space Flight Worthiness
SMC—Space and Missile Systems Center
SMC/EN—SMC Engineering Directorate
SMC/ENC—SMC Environmental Management Division
SMC/CC—SMC Commander (dual hatted as AFPEO/SP)
SMCI—Space and Missile System Center Instruction
SMC/JAQ—Judge Advocate General Contract and Patent Law Division
SMC/SE—SMC Safety Directorate
SMC/SES—SMC System Safety Division
SPO—System Program Office
SSMP—System Safety Management Plan
SSPP—System Safety Program Plan
SV—Space Vehicle
US—United States
USG—United States Government
USAF—United States Air Force
