BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    SPACE & MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER
SPACE & MISSILE SYSTEMS CENTER                                             INSTRUCTION 36-107
                                                                                    17 MARCH 2004
                                                                     Certified Current 22 March 2011
                                                                                           Personnel

                                                                  ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULES



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: SMC/HRCE (Ms. Kathleen Nelson)                     Certified by: SMC/HRC (Mr. Laurence Rocco)
Supersedes SMCI36-107, 08 May 2003                                                       Pages: 14
                                                                                    Distribution: F

This instruction establishes policy, procedures and assigns responsibilities for all SMC personnel at Los
Angeles AFB. It applies to Federal civilian employees but not to members of the Air Force Reserve or
Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) employees. This Instruction provides guidance for development and
implementation of Alternate Work Schedules, Compressed Work Schedules, Flextime, Telework, and
Credit Hours, and ensures they are implemented in accordance with statutory, regulatory, and policy
requirements. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code, Section 8013. Maintain and dispose of records
created as a result of processes prescribed by AFI 33-332 in accordance with AFMAN 37-139, Records
Disposition Schedule (will become AFMAN 33-322, Volume 4).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision deletes all references to military members participation in the Compressed Work Schedule
(CWS). Deletes references to higher than Fully Successful performance ratings in paragraph 4.3.3., due to
the implementation of the Two-Tier, Acceptable/Unacceptable performance program.
2                                                                       SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004


                                                Chapter 1

                                 ALTERNATE WORK SCHEDULES

1.1. Policy. All alternate work schedules at Los Angeles AFB are established under the authority of 5
U.S.C. §§ 6121-6128. Each organization will implement an AWS program in such a manner as to main-
tain levels of service and productivity, avoiding increases in operating costs other than reasonable admin-
istrative costs of establishing the programs.
    1.1.1. Alternate work schedules provide options to a standard 8-hour/5-day workweek. Authority to
    manage AWS has been delegated to the lowest level of supervisory management (e.g. 3-letter or 4-let-
    ter). AWS options include a compressed work schedule (CWS), flextime, telework and credit hours.
    1.1.2. SMC’s official core hours are 0900 to 1500, Monday through Friday. Work schedules must not
    begin earlier than 0600 and end no later than 1800.
    1.1.3. Employees who are unable to comply with AWS procedures may be removed from the pro-
    gram.

1.2. Compressed Work Schedule. The CWS authorized for SMC is a fixed tour of duty consisting of
eight 9-hour workdays and one 8-hour workday to complete the basic work requirement of 80 hours
within one biweekly pay period. Employees designate one Friday or Monday of either week in the
biweekly period as their regular day off (RDO) with another day as their regular 8-hour day. For more
information refer to Chapter 2, Procedures for a Compressed Work Schedule (CWS).

1.3. Flextime. This allows supervisors and employees to vary the time they come to work and the time
they leave based on job requirements, family considerations, commutes, lunch times, and other personal
issues. For more information refer to Chapter 3, Flextime.

1.4. Telework. Alternate workplace arrangements are management tools allowing work at an alternate
worksite such as an employee’s home, a satellite facility, or approved worksites a minimum of one day
and a maximum of two days in a pay period. Participation is contingent on mission requirements and
operational commitments, and limited to billets/positions where a supervisor determines assignments can
be accomplished away from the workplace. In addition, it can be used to accommodate temporary or per-
manent handicapping conditions, or adjust for office disruption. For more information refer to Chapter 4,
Telework.

1.5. Credit Hours. Employees may request credit hours be earned for work to be performed by employ-
ees in excess of an eight-hour tour of duty on any workday. Such work is compensated by an equal
amount of time off. An employee cannot carry forward more than 24 credit hours to the next pay period.
Work performed for credit hours is differentiated from overtime work, which is ordered or directed by
management. Work performed for credit hours is not compensated as, nor is it subject to rules and regula-
tions governing, overtime. For more information refer to Chapter 5, Credit Hours.
SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004                                                                                   3


                                                Chapter 2

                                 COMPRESSED WORK SCHEDULE

2.1. Compressed Work Schedule. The only CWS authorized for use at SMC is a fixed schedule consist-
ing of eight 9-hour workdays, one 8-hour workday and one Regular Day Off (RDO), either a Monday or
Friday, to complete the basic requirement of 80 hours within one biweekly pay period (twenty-four-hour
organizations, such as the 61st SFS, may implement additional options under AWS to meet unique mis-
sion requirements). Organizations may not opt out of the CWS. Notwithstanding the above, if mission
requirements dictate, two-letter organizations may opt for only Mondays or only Fridays as their RDO.
Individual participation is voluntary. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2.1.3.below, all Federal civil-
ian employees will be permitted to participate in this program. An employee may not combine credit
hours with CWS.
   2.1.1. RDO Designation. An employee may request a Monday or Friday of either week in the
   biweekly period as an RDO. Supervisors will make every effort to accommodate an employee's RDO
   choice. Supervisors remain responsible, however, for ensuring that CWS participants are allocated in
   equal proportions to each designated RDO. Supervisors will consider employee seniority in resolving
   RDO conflicts.
   2.1.2. Mission Requirements. All SMC supervisors must ensure there is reasonable manning to
   respond to mission requirements and supervisory controls are in place to ensure compliance with
   workplace rules. For full-time employees, hours worked in excess of the established compressed work
   schedule are overtime hours. A supervisor may, in order to meet mission requirements, require an
   employee work on their scheduled RDO. In that case:
       2.1.2.1. Employees covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) must be paid overtime for
       hours worked on the RDO unless the employee requests compensatory time. FLSA-covered
       employees are those designated “N” in Block 10 of their Civilian Leave and Earnings Statement.
       2.1.2.2. FLSA-exempt employees may be required to accept compensatory time for hours worked
       on the RDO. FLSA-exempt employees are those designated “E” in Block 10 of their Civilian
       Leave and Earnings Statement.
       2.1.2.3. A non-exempt employee, as defined in paragraph 2.1.2.1.above, may request compensa-
       tory time off or overtime pay.
   2.1.3. CWS Exempt Positions.
       2.1.3.1. The intent of this program is to give all employees the opportunity to participate in CWS
       if they desire to do so. There may, however, be certain unique and unusual situations where mis-
       sion requirements make CWS impracticable.
       2.1.3.2. The responsibility rests with management to justify why mission requirements preclude a
       specific position from being included in the CWS program.
       2.1.3.3. Before proposing to exempt a position from CWS, the responsible supervisor must con-
       sult with the affected employees to develop a workable plan for CWS implementation. With
       respect to bargaining unit positions, AFGE Local 2429 may enter into this consultation process
       with intermediate management officials.
4                                                                     SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004


       2.1.3.4. In the event that a workable CWS implementation plan does not emerge from these con-
       sultations, and the positions involved are bargaining unit positions, AFGE Local 2429 and man-
       agement shall consult with the two-letter responsible for the function with the objective of
       reducing or eliminating any adverse mission impact.
       2.1.3.5. Where such mission impacts cannot be adequately addressed, the two-letter chief or dep-
       uty may exempt specific positions from the CWS program. Management officials below the
       two-letter level have no authority to exempt positions from the CWS program.
       2.1.3.6. Where a bargaining unit employee is aggrieved by a decision made pursuant to paragraph
       2.1.3., that employee may proceed in accordance with the negotiated grievance procedure.
    2.1.4. Holidays. When an employee’s RDO falls in the same week as a holiday, the RDO will be taken
    as scheduled. However, if the RDO falls on the same day as a holiday, the RDO will be taken within
    the pay period as agreed upon by the supervisor and the employee. Supervisors must ensure civilian
    employees have completed the basic requirement of 80 hours within the pay period.
    2.1.5. TDY. Personnel on TDY will normally observe the regular duty days and hours of the TDY
    location. If compatible with the working hours at the temporary duty station, an employee may remain
    on a CWS schedule. Where incompatible, personnel scheduled for TDY may be removed from their
    CWS for the pay period(s) covering travel.
    2.1.6. Leave. Leave is charged at the same number of hours that an employee is scheduled to work
    (nine hours for nine-hour days, eight hours for eight-hour days).

2.2. Procedures.
    2.2.1. CWS Requests. Employees are required to fill out an AWS Enrollment and Approval Request
    form -- SMC Form 11, found in the SMC Publications Library web site under SMC Forms. This form
    constitutes an agreement between the employee and supervisor.
    2.2.2. Timekeeping. The enrollment form and an accurate account of the working hours of CWS par-
    ticipants must be maintained by the timekeeper, showing number of hours of duty, attendance, and
    nature and length of absences (see OPM’s Handbook on Alternative Work Schedules).

2.3. Management Controls. SMC/HR is responsible for reviewing implementation and utilization of the
SMC compressed work schedule program. The assessment includes an evaluation of metrics, feedback on
the use, effectiveness of, and satisfaction with, compressed work schedules. Supervisors are responsible
for providing data on productivity, service to the public, operating costs and other factors.
SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004                                                                               5


                                              Chapter 3

                                             FLEXTIME

3.1. Types of Flextime Schedules.
   3.1.1. Morning Flex. Employees may begin work at 15-minute intervals (at the ¼, ½, or ¾ past the
   hour) between the hours of 0600-0900. Supervisors in accordance with paragraph 3.2.1.must approve
   all arrival times in advance.
   3.1.2. Core Time. Employees must be present for duty 0900-1100 and 1300-1500. Normally, meet-
   ings will be held during these hours; however, employees are expected to arrange their workday to
   attend meetings, training, conferences, etc., scheduled outside these core hours.
   3.1.3. Midday Flex. Lunch will be taken between the hours of 1100-1300. Employees must take at a
   minimum, a 30 minute lunch break and may take up to 120 minutes for lunch.
   3.1.4. Afternoon Flex. Departure times of 1500-1800 are determined by adding 8 hours plus the
   amount of time taken for lunch to arrival time.
   3.1.5. Workday. Total hours available (0600-1800) in which the individual may complete 8 working
   hours plus lunch period.
   3.1.6. Normal Duty Hours. Normal work hours are 0715-1600. Employees not on flextime will
   observe these hours with a lunch period of 45 minutes.
   3.1.7. Flextime may be combined with CWS.

3.2. Procedures.
   3.2.1. Flextime Requests. Employees are required to fill out an AWS Enrollment and Approval
   Request form -- SMC Form 11, found in the SMC Publications Library web site under SMC Forms.
   Employees must provide written requests at least 5 calendar days before the workweek to their imme-
   diate supervisors for approval, unless circumstances preclude the 5-day advance request. The request
   should normally cover a minimum of 2 weeks unless the supervisor determines another period to be
   more appropriate.
   3.2.2. Timekeeping: Supervisors are responsible for certifying time and attendance in accordance
   with DFAS-DE SOP 1422.1.
   3.2.3. Absences and Tardiness. For tardiness and leave, the first hour of the workday commences at
   the scheduled arrival time for that day. Unavoidable absence of less than 1 hour, and brief periods of
   tardiness may be excused by the supervisors for adequate reasons (this authority should be used judi-
   ciously), or charged to an appropriate leave category outside core time or extend the individual’s
   scheduled workday (not beyond 1800) to compensate for tardiness. If the absence or tardiness is
   charged to leave, the charge is in multiples of 15 minutes. Unauthorized absence during the workday
   may be charged to absence without leave (AWOL) if the circumstances do not justify excusing the
   absence or approval of leave.
   3.2.4. Responsibilities:
6                                                                  SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004


    3.2.4.1. Supervisors and employees must ensure sufficient work is available and required levels of
    productivity are maintained. Employees must be productively engaged in work assignments even
    though supervisors may not be present.
    3.2.4.2. Supervisors and employees will adhere to approved flextime requests. However, requests
    may be subject to change by supervisors and employees, acting jointly, due to mission require-
    ments or personal emergencies.
    3.2.4.3. Employees on temporary duty (TDY) will adjust their workday to meet the needs of the
    situation and the duty hours at the TDY point.
SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004                                                                                  7


                                                Chapter 4

                                             TELEWORK

4.1. General Information.
   4.1.1. Telework is an alternative work arrangement that provides a civilian employee the opportunity
   to perform duties at his or her personal residence, telecenter, or other approved worksite for a speci-
   fied amount of time per week.
   4.1.2. A variety of positions are telecommutable; others are not. The following list of criteria is meant
   as a starting point; not all of them need to be present in each situation:
       4.1.2.1. Contact with other employees and serviced clientele is predictable.
       4.1.2.2. Identifiable portions of the job can be done outside of the office, with well-defined begin-
       ning and end points (units of work).
       4.1.2.3. Most work handled is not classified.
       4.1.2.4. Work can be performed as efficiently outside of the office as in it.
       4.1.2.5. The technology needed to perform the job is currently available.
       4.1.2.6. Cyclical work does not present a problem. For example, a training course developer could
       do data research and development of a course at home, but would have to be at work to field test
       the course. For example, the following types of positions could be telecommutable: investigators,
       auditors, programmers, word processors, examiners, and analysts. Generally, the following types
       of positions are not amenable to telecommuting: security personnel, secretaries, “blue collar”
       workers, and employees part of a trainee or entry-level position.
   4.1.3. Supervisors recommend and two-letters approve telework arrangements.

4.2. Telework Agreement.
   4.2.1. Telework agreements will be maintained in the AF 971, Supervisor’s Employee Work Folder.
   4.2.2. Telework agreements may cover “regular and recurring” or “ad hoc” work conditions.
   4.2.3. Given workload constraints, it is SMC policy to limit regular and recurring telework agree-
   ments to two days per pay period. In unusual circumstances, SMC/DS (or designated representative in
   periods of absence) may approve telework agreements that provide for more than two days per pay
   period. Employees will use Telework Schedule Exception, SMC Form 3, for this purpose.
   4.2.4. Telework may be used to accommodate individual situations of a transitory nature where the
   employee is unable to come to the work site. Ad hoc telework agreements may be appropriate during
   convalescence of a short-term injury or illness, when the work office itself is not usable, or for short
   term, infrequent periods of work such as a project assignment.
   4.2.5. Ad hoc telework agreements less than two weeks in duration may be approved by supervisors.
   Two-letters must approve those over two weeks in duration.

4.3. Participation Factors.
   4.3.1. Participation by employees is voluntary.
8                                                                       SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004


    4.3.2. Assigned work and responsibilities must be portable, in whole or in segmented portions.
    4.3.3. A participant must have an Acceptable rating on his/her most recent appraisal and be working
    under an approved performance plan.
    4.3.4. Employees may not be under a probationary or trial period, initial appointment or trainee posi-
    tion.
    4.3.5. Employees must have 6 months at the base and at least 3 months in their current job assign-
    ment.
    4.3.6. Employees may not have disciplinary or adverse actions under consideration or underway.
    4.3.7. The participant and the supervisor must sign the Telework Agreement, SMC Form 2, which
    provides specific program guidance.
    4.3.8. Maximum time permitted “off-site” will be delineated in the Telework Agreement between the
    supervisor and the employee, but no more than two days per pay period unless granted an exception or
    authorized as an “ad hoc” agreement for a limited period of time.
    4.3.9. Each participant must renew the Work Agreement annually.
    4.3.10. Either the employee or the supervisor, with written justification, may discontinue participa-
    tion at any time. A supervisor may deny participation in this program. Supervisors must notify
    employees of the basis for the denial in writing. A supervisor may terminate approval of employee
    participation if the employee is unable to fulfill duties from home, or participation becomes inconsis-
    tent with management requirements and needs. The supervisor will be required to inform the
    employee in writing.

4.4. Procedures.
    4.4.1. An employee interested in participating in the telework program will first contact his or her
    supervisor. The supervisor will make the determination if the position is suitable for teleworking. The
    supervisor will then determine if the employee meets criteria to participate in the telework program.
    The supervisor will forward the Telework Agreement to the two-letter office for approval. Once the
    Telework Agreement is approved, the original Telework Agreement will be returned to the supervisor
    via the two-letter telework coordinator for inclusion in the AF 971, Supervisor’s Employee Work
    Folder.
    4.4.2. Before an employee can begin teleworking, the employee must complete a telework home
    safety inspection by using the Telework Home Safety Certification, SMC Form 5, and return it to his
    or her supervisor.

4.5. Reports. Each two-letter telework coordinator will submit a Quarterly Telework Report, SMC Form
4, to the Civilian Personnel Flight telework coordinator. The reports will be submitted no later than the
third workday in Jan, Apr, Jul, and Oct each year.

4.6. Forms. All forms referred to in this chapter can be found in the SMC Publications Library web site
under SMC Forms.

4.7. Telework Guidance. Further information and guidance on the Telework Program can be found in
the Department of Defense (DoD) Telework Policy and in the DoD Guide. Also refer to the telework site
SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004                                                                           9


at http://www.telework.gov. Refer to the Glossary of References and Supporting Information at Attach-
ment 1 of this instruction.
10                                                                     SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004


                                               Chapter 5

                                           CREDIT HOURS

5.1. Procedures. Credit Hours allows a Federal civilian employee to work additional hours for credit to
be used in the future as hours or days off. An employee may not combine credit hours with CWS.
     5.1.1. The following procedures apply to the Credit Hours process for full-time employees:
        5.1.1.1. Within the limits described herein, employees may vary his/her work schedule by work-
        ing additional hours for credit. No more than 2 Credit Hours can be earned in a workday. They
        cannot be earned on non-work days (i.e., Saturday and Sunday, if the normal work week is Mon-
        day- Friday).
        5.1.1.2. All Credit Hours to be worked must be requested 5 days in advance of the beginning of
        the pay period and approved in advance by the supervisor, unless there are extenuating circum-
        stances as listed in the paragraph below. Credit Hours may be carried over from pay period to pay
        period. Carry over hours in excess of 24, will be forfeited and cannot be converted to overtime
        after the fact. Every employee is responsible for his or her carry over account.
        5.1.1.3. An employee Work Schedule must be submitted in writing in advance (at least 5 days) of
        the beginning of the pay period and approved by the supervisor, unless there are extenuating cir-
        cumstances. Employees are not required to submit a new work schedule unless a change is being
        requested. Time off may be taken in advance of it being earned, as long as it will be earned that
        pay period or annual leave will be automatically substituted. The supervisor may grant changes to
        an approved employee leave schedule at any time as long as the employee will have worked or
        earned enough Credit Hours to account for at least the 80 hour pay period. Example: An employee
        needs to take care of an emergency on the first Monday scheduled for 10 hours but needs to leave
        2 hours early that day. This employee could make up the time on any other day of the pay period
        as long as they have a minimum of 80 hours worked. The request to change the schedule will be
        submitted in writing.
        5.1.1.4. Where a conflict in scheduling occurs, pre-scheduled annual leave will normally take pri-
        ority over Credit Hours time off.
        5.1.1.5. Employees will normally be available during the core days of Tuesday through Thursday,
        and will use Credit Hours earned on Mondays or Fridays. Credit Hours used may be for an entire
        workday or a portion of a workday, as long as the 80-hour minimum requirement for that pay
        period is met and the supervisor approves the employee’s schedule in advance. Credit hours will
        be approved/disapproved by the first-level supervisor as with annual and sick leave requests.
     5.1.2. The following procedures apply to the Credit Hours process for part-time employees:
        5.1.2.1. Within the limits described herein, employees may vary his/her work schedule by work-
        ing additional hours for credit. No more than 1 Credit Hour can be earned in a workday. They can-
        not be earned on non-work days (i.e., Saturday and Sunday, if the normal work week is
        Monday-Friday).
        5.1.2.2. All Credit Hours to be worked must be requested 5 days in advance of the beginning of
        the pay period and approved in advance by the supervisor, unless there are extenuating circum-
        stances as listed in the paragraph below. Credit Hours may be carried over from pay period to pay
SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004                                                                              11


       period. Carry over hours in excess of 12, will be forfeited and cannot be converted to overtime
       after the fact. Every employee is responsible for his or her carry over account.
       5.1.2.3. An employee Work Schedule must be submitted in writing in advance (at least 5 days) of
       the beginning of the pay period and approved by the supervisor, unless there are extenuating cir-
       cumstances. Employees are not required to submit a new work schedule unless a change is being
       requested. Time off may be taken in advance of it being earned, as long as it will be earned that
       pay period or annual leave will be automatically substituted. The supervisor may grant changes to
       an approved employee leave schedule at any time as long as the employee will have worked or
       earned enough Credit Hours to account for at least the number of part-time hours scheduled to
       work during that pay period. Example: An employee who is scheduled to work for 40 part-time
       hours during the pay period needs to take care of an emergency on the first Monday scheduled for
       8 hours but needs to leave 2 hours early that day. This employee could make up the time on any
       other day of the pay period as long as they have a minimum of 40 hours worked. The request to
       change the schedule will be submitted in writing.
       5.1.2.4. Where a conflict in scheduling occurs, pre-scheduled annual leave will normally take pri-
       ority over Credit Hours time off.
       5.1.2.5. Credit Hours used may be for an entire workday or a portion of a workday, as long as the
       minimum number of scheduled part-time hours for that pay period is met and the supervisor
       approves the employee’s schedule in advance. Credit hours will be approved/disapproved by the
       first-level supervisor as with annual and sick leave requests.
   5.1.3. Annual/Sick Leave: When an employee is absent from the job other than for a holiday, he or
   she will be charged with leave equal to the scheduled length of the work day in the employee’s work
   schedule. Based on the need to use emergency annual leave or sick leave, the employee may request
   to alter his/her Credit Hours schedule request for that pay period. Employees may request to use their
   “banked hours” for sickness or unscheduled leave that would otherwise be charged to sick leave or
   annual leave. The Standard Form 71, Application for Leave, will be used to document this time.
   5.1.4. Overtime/Compensatory Time Off: Credit hours are distinguished from overtime and compen-
   satory time off. Credit hours are worked at the option of the employee with prior supervisory
   approval. Overtime and compensatory time off are hours officially ordered in advance by manage-
   ment. Authorized work which management orders and approves in advance to be performed outside
   an employee’s daily work schedule or in excess of 80 hours per pay period or on any nonwork day,
   must be paid overtime or receive compensatory time off.

5.2. Restrictions.
   5.2.1. Reasons for Disapproval. Consistent with the provisions set forth below, employees may
   request to earn Credit Hours. Restrictions or denials of a particular work schedule and changes to a
   work schedule shall be based on one of the following:
       5.2.1.1. Operational Considerations. The goal of this process is to allow as many employees as
       possible to utilize credit Hours, if they so choose. However, a supervisor may exclude a position
       or group of positions from participation in Credit Hours if it would adversely impact mission
       accomplishment. Management may also temporarily suspend Credit Hours to meet peak or
       unusual mission demands.
12                                                                     SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004


        5.2.1.2. Documented Abuse. If an employee is proven to be abusing a particular work schedule
        during the scheduled workdays, the supervisor may exclude the employee from this program for
        up to six months. This prohibition may be extended if the employee continues to have attendance
        and/or tardiness problems.
        5.2.1.3. Scheduled Training. Supervisors may disapprove employee participation in a particular
        work schedule when the employee is required to work a different schedule in connection with par-
        ticipation in formal training.
        5.2.1.4. Close Supervision Required. Supervisors may disapprove credit hours when –
            5.2.1.4.1. Documented performance deficiencies dictate the need for close supervision,
            including but not limited to Performance Improvement Plans, performance counseling, etc.
            5.2.1.4.2. New hires, or other employees new to the position require close supervision during
            the initial training to understand and perform duties of the position.
            5.2.1.4.3. Documented misconduct requires close supervision.
     5.2.2. Written Notice. All disapprovals or restrictions shall be provided in writing to the employee
     and shall specify the reason(s) for denial. The employee may resubmit a request to work Credit Hours
     if the reason for denial has been corrected.



                                                     BRIAN A. ARNOLD, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                                     Commander
SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004                                                                             13


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
5 U.S.C. § 6121 - 6128
AFI 21-109, Communications Security (COMSEC) Equipment Maintenance, and Training
AFI 31-1-1, Vol. 1, The Air Force Physical Security Program
AFI 31-209, The Air Force Resource Protection Program
AFI 33-111, Telephone Systems Management
AFI 33-112, Computer Systems Management
AFI 33-114, Software Management
AFI 33-129, Transmission of Information Via the Internet
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, 21 Jun 99
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program
DoD 5500.7-R, Standards of Conduct
Department of Defense Telework Policy and Guide
OPM Handbook on Alternative Work Schedules (available on the Internet at
http://www.opm.gov/oca/aws/index.htm)
Public Law 104-52
Section 359 of Public Law No. 106-346
SMC Publications Library Web Site, http://www.losangeles.af.mil/abg/sc/publish.htm.
The Telework Site, http://www.telework.gov
Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 610, Subpart D

Terms
Ad Hoc Telework—Approved telework performed on an occasional, one-time, or irregular basis.
Telework of less than one day per pay period is considered ad hoc.
Alternative Worksite—A place away from the traditional worksite that has been approved for the
performance of officially assigned duties. It may be an employee’s home, a Telecenter, or other approved
worksite including a facility established by state, local, or county governments or private sector
organizations for use by teleworkers.
CWS Plan —A fixed tour of duty consisting of eight nine-hour workdays and one eight-hour workday to
complete the basic work requirement of 80 hours within one biweekly pay period.
Duty Hours —The normal SMC duty hours are an eight-hour day from 0715 to 1600 with a 45-minute
lunch. The normal schedule may be modified in accordance with AWS procedures. AWS schedules (to
14                                                                      SMCI36-107 17 MARCH 2004


include CWS and flextime) may be established between 0600 and 1800 with the employee present for
duty during the core hours of 0900-1100 and 1300-1500. An AWS schedule must include a scheduled
lunch period that may range from 30 minutes to two hours (between 1100 and 1300).
Holidays—If a holiday occurs on a 9-hour day, the employee will receive 9 hours of holiday pay. If the
holiday occurs on an 8-hour day, the employee will receive 8 hours of holiday pay. When an employee’s
RDO falls in the same week as a holiday, the RDO will be taken as scheduled. However, if the RDO falls
on the same day as a holiday, the RDO will be taken within the pay period as agreed upon by the supervi-
sor and the employee. Supervisors must ensure civilian employees have completed the basic requirement
of 80 hours within the pay period.
Leave—Leave taken during the administrative workweek will be charged the same number of hours
employee was scheduled to work (nine hours for nine-hour days and eight hours on the eight-hour day.
Lead Time—Payroll requires a lead-time of two full pay periods prior to start of all actions regarding
CWS. Information required by Payroll includes name, SSN, employee’s eight-hour day, and relief days
(normally Saturday and Sunday).
Regular and Recurring Telework—An approved work schedule where eligible employees regularly
work at least one but no more than 2 days per biweekly pay period at an alternative worksite.
TDY—Personnel on TDY will observe the regular duty days and hours of the TDY location. Personnel
scheduled for TDY may be removed from the local CWS for the administrative workweeks included in
the period of travel.
Telecenter—A central area that houses employees of more than one organization.
Telework—Any arrangement in which an employee performs officially assigned duties at an alternative
worksite on either a regular and recurring, or an ad hoc basis (not including while on official travel).
Telework Agreement —A written agreement, completed and signed by an employee and appropriate
official(s) in his or her organization, that outlines the terms and conditions of the telework arrangement,
SMC Form 2.
Traditional Worksite—The location where an employee would work absent a telework arrangement.
Work-at-Home Telework—An approved arrangement whereby an employee performs his or her official
duties in a specified work or office area of his/her home that is suitable for the performance of official
government business.
