BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       SPANGDAHLEM AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 48-107
SPANGDAHLEM AB (USAFE)
                                                                                            30 MAY 2009
                                                                            Certified current 30 July 2010
                                                                                     Aerospace Medicine

                                                   HUMAN BLOOD/BODY FLUID CONTINGENCY
                                                                            SPILL PLAN


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                          publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 52 AMDS/SGPM                                      Certified by: 52 AMDS/CC (Col Parker P. Plante)
Supersedes: SPANGDAHLEMABI48-107,                                                            Pages: 5
            4 February 1999


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directives 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, and
establishes guidance for response and cleanup of accidents or incidents where exposure to human blood,
body tissue or fluid could occur. In general, cleanup of blood, body tissue or fluid resulting from an
accident or incident will be performed by a contracted cleanup service. To meet time sensitive
operational requirements, however, a commander may direct unit personnel to perform cleanup. This
instruction is written to serve as the “Written Exposure Control Plan” required by Title 29, Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens, for work performed by unit
personnel. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary responsibility (OPR) using the AF 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847s from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

General revisions reflect current policies and guidelines; format has been modified to comply with Air
Force regulations; references have been updated and added to Attachment 1; adopted form is now cited
in 4.2.
1. Definition:
   1.1. Accident/Incident. An event resulting in a significant spillage of blood, body tissue or fluid,
   e.g. suicide, auto accident, amputation. For the purpose of this instruction, minor events, such as a
   sliced finger or sports injury, are not considered.
2                                                           SPANGDAHLEMABI48-107 30 MAY 09


    1.2. Bloodborne Pathogens. Microorganisms that are present in human blood and can cause disease
    in humans. These pathogens include, but are not limited to, hepatitis B virus (HBV) and human
    immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
    1.3. Decontamination. The use of physical or chemical means to remove, inactivate, or destroy
    bloodborne pathogens on a surface or item to the point where they are no longer capable of
    transmitting infectious particles and the surface or item is rendered safe for handling, use, or
    disposal.
    1.4. Exposure Incident. A specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin or
    parenteral contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials that results from the
    performance of an employee's duties.
    1.5. Regulated Waste. Liquid or semi-liquid blood or other potentially infectious materials;
    contaminated items that would release blood or other potentially infectious materials in a liquid or
    semi-liquid state if compressed; items that are caked with dried blood or other potentially infectious
    materials and are capable of releasing these materials during handling; contaminated sharps, and
    pathological and microbiological wastes containing blood or other potentially infectious materials.
    1.6. Standard Precaution. An approach to infection control. According to the concept of standard
    precautions, all human blood and certain human body fluids are treated as if known to be infectious
    for HIV, HBV and other bloodborne pathogens.
2. Responsibilities:
    2.1. Unit Commander. Submit Air Force Form 9, Request for Purchase, to 52d Contracting
    Squadron (52 CONS) to have contaminated building areas cleaned and sanitized.
    2.2. 52d Civil Engineer Squadron, Fire Department (52 CES/CEF) and 52d Medical Operations
    Squadron, Emergency Services (52 MDOS/SGOME):
       2.2.1. Provide emergency rescue and render first aid using standard precautions: Flight
       Management Plan (FMP) 32-20-04, Infectious Disease Exposure Control for Fire Fighters, and
       52d Medical Group (52 MDG) Instruction 44-08, Infection Control Program.
       2.2.2. Ensure other responders (e.g. Security Forces) are aware of any blood, body tissue or fluid
       contamination hazards.
    2.3. 52d Security Forces Squadron:
       2.3.1. Secure the accident/incident area, preventing personnel from unnecessary exposure to
       blood, body tissue or fluid spillage.
       2.3.2. Use appropriate means (e.g. "police line--do not cross" tape) to barricade the affected
       area.
    2.4. 52 CES, Operations (52 CES/CEO). Ensure repair of any damage to government facilities after
    the affected area is cleaned and sanitized.
    2.5. 52d Aerospace Medical Squadron, Public Health Flight (52 AMDS/SGPM). Provide training
    assistance to emergency responders and other units (on an as needed basis) with potential exposure
    to bloodborne pathogens.
    2.6. 52 MDOS or 52 AMDS, Health Care Provider (52 MDOS/SGOL or 52 AMDS/SGPF).
    Manage post-exposure follow-up (e.g. blood tests for HIV and hepatitis) on any personnel
    inadvertently exposed to an exposure incident.
SPANGDAHLEMABI48-107 30 MAY 09                                                                        3


   2.7. 52 AMDS, Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (52 AMDS/SGPB). Provide consultation on
   personal protective equipment and necessary procedures to protect response and cleanup personnel
   from bloodborne pathogen hazards.
   2.8. 52 CONS, Base Support Flight(52 CONS/LGCB): Receive AF Form 9 requesting cleaning and
   sanitizing services and provide for immediate contractor performance. 52 CONS maintains the
   capability for providing emergency services, if necessary, and can provide for services within 24
   hours of identification of need.
   2.9. 52d Fighter Wing, Ground Safety (52 FW/SEG): If required to investigate, upon completion,
   advise unit commander to seek contracted cleaning service for cleanup of the government facility.
3. Cleanup Operations by Air Force Personnel. If cleanup operations must be performed
immediately in order to meet time-sensitive operational requirements, a unit commander may designate
unit personnel to perform cleanup.
   3.1. Training. Personnel must be trained on the hazards of bloodborne pathogens prior to
   performing cleanup. Training must include an explanation of the associated health hazards, modes
   of transmission, requirements for use of personal protective equipment and explanation of the
   procedures to follow if an exposure incident occurs. This instruction may be used as the basis for
   training and training assistance is available from Public Health.
   3.2. General:
       3.2.1. Standard precautions shall be observed to prevent contact with blood or other potentially
       infectious materials. Under circumstances in which differentiation between body fluid types is
       difficult or impossible, all body fluids shall be considered potentially infectious materials.
       3.2.2. Eating, drinking, smoking, applying cosmetics or lip balm, and handling contact lenses
       are prohibited in work areas where there is a reasonable likelihood of occupational exposure.
       3.2.3. All procedures involving blood or other potentially infectious materials shall be
       performed in such a manner as to minimize splashing, spraying, splattering, and generation of
       droplets of these substances.
       3.2.4. Contaminated broken glassware shall not be picked up directly with the hands. It shall be
       cleaned up using mechanical means, such as a brush and dust pan, tongs, or forceps.
       3.2.5. Access to the work area shall be limited to individuals who have been advised of the
       potential biohazard.
       3.2.6. General household cleaner or a 5 per cent bleach solution mixed with water should be
       used to decontaminate equipment, furniture, floors, windows, walls and all other non-fabric
       fixtures.
       3.2.7. Blood or fluids present outdoors on pavements, roads, sidewalks or parking areas should
       be rinsed away with water.
   3.3. Personal Protective Equipment. Personal protective equipment will be worn as identified below
   to prevent blood or other potentially infectious materials to pass through or reach workers’ clothes,
   skin, eyes, mouth, or other mucous membranes.
       3.3.1. Gloves. As a minimum, latex, nitrile, or butyl rubber gloves will be worn to protect the
       hands. Gloves shall be replaced as soon as practical when contaminated or as soon as feasible if
       they are torn, punctured, or when their ability to function as a barrier is compromised.
       Disposable (single-use) gloves shall not be washed or decontaminated for re-use.
4                                                            SPANGDAHLEMABI48-107 30 MAY 09


       3.3.2. Eye Protection and Face Shields. Eye protection devices, such as goggles or glasses with
       solid side shields, or chin-length face shields, shall be worn whenever splashes, spray, splatter or
       droplets of blood or other potentially infectious materials may be generated.
       3.3.3. Gowns, Aprons and Other Protective Body Clothing. Impervious coveralls or aprons
       shall be worn as required to protect clothing if splash, spray, or splatter of infectious materials
       may be generated. If a garment is penetrated by blood or other potentially infectious material,
       the garment shall be removed immediately or as soon as feasible.
       3.3.4. Non-disposable gloves, eye protection, and aprons must be sanitized using general
       household cleaner or 5 per cent bleach solution mixed with water after use.
    3.4. Hand Washing:
       3.4.1. Workers will wash their hands immediately or as soon as feasible after removal of gloves
       or other personal protective equipment. Workers must wash hands and any other skin with soap
       and water, or flush mucous membranes with water immediately or as soon as feasible following
       contact of such body areas with blood or other potentially infectious materials.
       3.4.2. When hand washing facilities are not available, antiseptic hand cleanser in conjunction
       with clean cloth/paper towels or antiseptic towelettes will be used to clean hands. When
       antiseptic hand cleansers or towelettes are used, hands shall be washed with soap and running
       water as soon as feasible.
    3.5. Waste Disposal:
       3.5.1. Dirty solution used for cleaning may be disposed of into the sanitary sewer system (i.e.
       down the toilet).
       3.5.2. Regulated waste must be disposed of as infectious waste. Fluorescent orange or orange-
       red “Biohazard” warning labels shall be affixed to containers of regulated waste. Red bags or
       red containers may be substituted for labels.
       3.5.3. Contaminated carpets, furniture and/or other building materials which are not considered
       regulated waste may be disposed of as municipal waste (i.e. normal trash).
    3.6. Any exposure incident where a worker’s eyes, mouth, other mucous membrane or non-intact
    skin comes into contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials must be immediately
    reported to 52 AMDS/SGPM for post-exposure evaluation and medical follow-up as necessary.
4. Adopted and Prescribed Forms.
    4.1. Prescribed Forms.
       No forms prescribed.
    4.2. Adopted Forms.
       AF 9, Request for Purchase.




                                             LEE T. WIGHT, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
SPANGDAHLEMABI48-107 30 MAY 09                                                                      5


                                           Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, 3 October 2005

AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, and USAFESUP, 25 November 2008

MDG Instruction 44-08, Infection Control Program, 5 February 2009

National Fire Protection Association 1581, Standard on Fire Department Infection Control Program,
2005 Edition

Title 29, CFR, Part 1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AMDS— Aerospace Medical Squadron
CES— Civil Engineer Squadron
CFR— Code of Federal Regulations
CONS— Contracting Squadron
FMP— Flight Management Plan
HBV— Hepatitis B Virus
HIV— Human Immunodeficiency Virus
MDOS— Medical Operations Squadron
