BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      SPANGDAHLEM INSTRUCTION 34-502
SPANGDAHLEM AIR BASE (USAFE)                                                               10 MARCH 2004

                                                                                                     Services

                                                               BASE HONOR GUARD/COLOR GUARD
                                                                                 PROCEDURES



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 52 SVS/SVM (Capt Kristie Y. Cannon)                Certified by: 52 SVS/CC (Major Lisa K. Hansen)
Supersedes SPANGDAHLEMI 34-502,                                                                Pages: 7
           14 May 2003                                                                  Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-5, Mortuary Affairs and Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, and the 52d Fighter Wing (52 FW) Mortuary Oper-
ations Plan. It provides guidance for selection, notification, training, dispatch and utilization of the 52 FW
Honor Guard. This directive outlines the responsibilities of key personnel on the Honor Guard and applies
to all units assigned at Spangdahlem Air Base (AB) and its geographically separated units (GSU). Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance
with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

Titled changed to include Color Guard. Paragraph 8. contains directives for GSUs with Color Guard
teams: GSUs are authorized a Color Guard team to perform Formal Retreats, Retirement and Change of
Command ceremonies and are required to request support for the 52 FW Honor Guard for funeral and
Embassy details. Color Guard members are required to fulfill an 12-month commitment to be considered
for any medal; Color Guard contracts will be maintained at Spangdahlem AB; Color Guard practice must
be held twice a month at the GSU, members are required to attend one Honor Guard practice each quarter
at Spangdahlem Air Base and an official training roster will be submitted to 52d Services Squadron (52
SVS) quarterly for verification of practice; funding for equipment, supplies and temporary duties (TDY)
are the responsibility of the respective GSU; and the Color Guard Officer In Charge (OIC)/Noncommis-
sioned Officer In Charge (NCOIC) is required to adhere to and enforce criteria in paragraphs 3.3.1. to
3.7.4. and paragraphs 5. and 6. of this instruction.


1. General.
2                                                          SPANGDAHLEMI34-502 10 MARCH 2004


    1.1. The base Honor Guard will consist of one team comprised of three flights, two detail flights and
    a training flight. The team will have a minimum of 30 volunteer members, with each flight led by a
    Noncommissioned Officer (NCO). This team represents the 52 FW in the performance of all military
    honors requests at funerals, ceremonies and other public relations functions deemed appropriate by
    the 52d Fighter Wing Commander (52 FW/CC) or 52d Mission Support Group Commander (52 MSG/
    CC). The 52d Services Squadron Commander (52 SVS/CC) is the Honor Guard program manager and
    coordinates all issues affecting the Honor Guard.
    1.2. Organizations or agencies requiring the use of the Honor Guard, other than for funerals, must
    submit a completed AF Form 1946, Honor Guard Checklist, to 52 SVS Readiness and Plans
    (SVMX) at least 2 weeks prior to the requested date. The request must provide date, time, place, pur-
    pose, estimated number of personnel required, point of contact with duty phone number and other per-
    tinent information (e.g., posting of host nation flag). Any request submitted to any other office will not
    be honored. When requests are submitted, follow up with a telephone call to ensure requests are
    received.

2. Manning.
    2.1. Honor Guard membership is voluntary. All unit commanders are encouraged to let all interested
    personnel serve on the Honor Guard.
    2.2. In the event manning drops below minimum standards, manning documents from the 52 FW
    Manpower and Quality office will be used by the 52 FW/CC to task units equitably across the wing
    (e.g., six percent of all unit E-6s and below). Commanders, senior enlisted leaders and first sergeants
    will identify individuals to fulfill this important duty.
    2.3. Enlisted and officer ranks are eligible for membership in the Honor Guard.
       2.3.1. Members serve a minimum of one year from their certification date, unless relieved by the
       Honor Guard Commander and/or Honor Guard OIC, Honor Guard NCOIC or the member’s first
       sergeant or commander. Members are encouraged to serve more than 1 year.
       2.3.2. Personnel on TDY or off station for a period of more than 30 days will remain on Honor
       Guard rosters and be placed in an inactive status until their return. This period is not considered a
       part of the 1-year commitment (e.g., with a 4-month TDY, service is 16 months).
    2.4. Each member must fill out a statement of understanding before becoming a member of the Honor
    Guard. There are no “honorary” or part-time members.
    2.5. Prior to release from the Honor Guard, each member notifies the Honor Guard Commander/OIC,
    who then sends a notification of release to the member’s commander. This serves as official notifica-
    tion to the orderly rooms that the individual no longer has the official requirement for Basic Allow-
    ance for Subsistence (BAS).
    2.6. Members require adequate rest to perform their normal duties and Honor Guard duties efficiently
    and safely. Therefore, each unit is encouraged to recruit day shift personnel when feasible and practi-
    cal. When swing shift and mid-shift personnel are recruited, supervisors, first sergeants and com-
    manders should ensure each member has adequate rest before performing Honor Guard duties.

3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. The 52 FW/CC:
SPANGDAHLEMI34-502 10 MARCH 2004                                                                      3


     3.1.1. Responsible for the Honor Guard program.
     3.1.2. Provides funding and resources to meet operational requirements of the Honor Guard pro-
     gram.
     3.1.3. Provides storage, training and administrative space for Honor Guard team.
     3.1.4. Appoints an Honor Guard Commander and/or Honor Guard OIC as applicable.
     3.1.5. Provides special recognition program for Honor Guard members.
  3.2. The 52d Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (52 LRS/CC) will:
     3.2.1. Be responsible for providing transportation to support the Honor Guard. Provide air-condi-
     tioned vehicles during summer months, whenever possible.
  3.3. The 52 SVS/CC will:
     3.3.1. Manage the Honor Guard program for the 52 FW/CC.
     3.3.2. Ensure the Honor Guard Commander/OIC and NCOIC are aware of their responsibilities
     and perform their duties in accordance with AFI 34-242, Chapter 8.
  3.4. The Honor Guard Commander/OIC will:
     3.4.1. Be responsible to the 52 SVS/CC for all matters pertaining to the Honor Guard, to include
     the submission of all award packages.
     3.4.2. Coordinate with the Honor Guard NCOIC on all appropriate administrative requirements.
     3.4.3. Make final selections of all Honor Guard applicants and is responsible for the decorum of
     the members. This includes making sure the members represent the finest traditions of the United
     States Air Force in discipline, appearance and competence.
     3.4.4. Make sure each member is briefed regarding their responsibilities and that they understand
     the purpose, importance and duties of the Honor Guard.
     3.4.5. Prepare annual budget input for Honor Guard requirements (i.e., travel, per diem, uniforms,
     uniform alterations and equipment.
        3.4.5.1. Be responsible for procuring the supplies and equipment needed.
     3.4.6. Delegate responsibilities to assistants in the areas of administration, training, control of
     equipment and inspections.
     3.4.7. Assign personnel to act as trainers and instructors as needed. He/she will issue necessary
     equipment to all personnel for training and ceremonial purposes.
     3.4.8. Ensure notification is made to vehicle dispatch a minimum of 24 hours prior, when possi-
     ble, for all vehicle requirements. Pick-up time should be far enough in advance to allow for
     last-minute changes in vehicle selection.
     3.4.9. Make certain the Honor Guard departs for performances so they will arrive at least one hour
     before performance time. If it is known the honor guard will be late for a scheduled formation,
     immediately inform the detail point of contact.
4                                                       SPANGDAHLEMI34-502 10 MARCH 2004


       3.4.10. Ensure immediate return and proper storage of all ceremonial equipment, coordinate
       replacement of equipment and supplies when needed and ensure equipment is not taken apart,
       destroyed, etc.
       3.4.11. Ensure all members are briefed on proper cleaning of Honor Guard uniforms and ceremo-
       nial items.
       3.4.12. Ensure an accurate listing of personnel is maintained and updated, as required.
       3.4.13. Ensure an accurate list of all members authorized to draw weapons is on file at the base
       weapons storage facility and update list annually or as changes occur.
       3.4.14. Perform open ranks inspections of all members periodically. The Honor Guard Com-
       mander/OIC or NCOIC will ensure strict compliance of dress and appearance standards for all
       members assigned.
       3.4.15. Have the authority to remove any member who does not meet the high standards set forth
       in this instruction.
    3.5. The Honor Guard NCOIC will:
       3.5.1. Be responsible to the 52 SVS/CC when the Honor Guard Commander/OIC is not available.
       He/she is responsible to ensure checklists are completed for each scheduled detail. The Honor
       Guard NCOIC will ensure all members receive proper training for all Honor Guard details.
    3.6. Unit commanders and first sergeants will:
       3.6.1. Direct section heads and supervisors to encourage unit personnel to volunteer for Honor
       Guard duty and ensure members participate in Honor Guard activities for which they are sched-
       uled.
       3.6.2. Ensure only personnel of the highest caliber are recommended for Honor Guard member-
       ship. Screen all nominees for Honor Guard duty. Ensure all nominees meet Air Force standards in
       AFPD 36-29, Military Force Standards, AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air
       Force Personnel, and AFI 34-242.
           3.6.2.1. Nominees must not have an Unfavorable Information File be on the weight manage-
           ment program, or have any adverse administrative action at the time of nomination. If a mem-
           ber receives any administrative or disciplinary actions, the Honor Guard Commander/OIC and
           the individual’s commander will determine whether the individual should remain on the Honor
           Guard.
           3.6.2.2. Memorandum for Record will be accomplished, stating why the individual is no
           longer on the Honor Guard, and maintained in the individual’s Honor Guard file. Unit com-
           manders and first sergeants will take appropriate action for Honor Guard members who are
           reported for substandard performance.
    3.7. Honor Guard members will:
       3.7.1. Maintain high standards, military bearing and display a positive attitude and appearance at
       all times.
       3.7.2. Be responsible for uniform maintenance, training session attendance, drill proficiency, and
       knowledge of traditional military formations, ceremonies and protocol.
SPANGDAHLEMI34-502 10 MARCH 2004                                                                          5


      3.7.3. Provide a statement of understanding signed by themselves, their immediate supervisor,
      first sergeant, organizational commander and the Honor Guard Commander/OIC.
      3.7.4. Attend all formations on time and in proper uniform. Honor Guard members will notify the
      commander of any TDY, leave, Permanent Change of Station or separation that affects their per-
      formance a minimum of 30 days prior to the event.

4. Uniform.
   4.1. Honor Guard members will be provided a service dress uniform, patent leather low quarters,
   white gloves, silver aiguilette, mirrored ceremonial belt and a wheel hat with Hap Arnold emblem.
   Initial alterations of uniforms will be funded through the Honor Guard budget.
   4.2. Practice uniform is the uniform of the day.
   4.3. Ceremonial uniform is service dress uniform with silver aiguilette worn on the left shoulder and
   the Honor Guard arc and patch on the left shoulder. Honor Guard members wear mirrored ceremonial
   belt, patent leather low quarters, wheel service hat with Hap Arnold emblem, all ribbons with special
   badges and no nametag.
   4.4. Honor Guard members must keep their ceremonial uniform ready at all times. The Honor Guard
   is often tasked with short-notice details. Members will strictly adhere to AFI 36-2903 standards.
   Inspections will be conducted before each detail and whenever deemed necessary by the Honor Guard
   Commander/OIC and/or NCOIC. All discrepancies will be noted and members will be counseled.

5. Ceremonies and Training Sessions.
   5.1. Official Honor Guard duty takes precedence over normal military duty except when such duty
   would seriously degrade the unit or base’s primary mission as determined by the unit commander.
   5.2. Honor Guard members are required to attend training held in the Honor Guard room. Additional
   training, such as weapons qualification training, will be scheduled as necessary.
   5.3. Members receive notice of ceremony participation at least two weeks prior to the ceremony
   whenever possible. Funeral details are unscheduled and often occur with short notice.

6. Absences and Tardiness.
   6.1. Each member is required to attend all scheduled training sessions and special meetings. Members
   missing more than three unexcused training sessions and special meetings will be placed in an inactive
   status and an inquiry will begin to determine member’s status on the Honor Guard.

7. Special Considerations.
   7.1. Honor Guard members are exempt from base details (e.g., base cleanup, security police augmen-
   tee and similar roster-type duties). This is not to be construed that individuals are not responsible for
   their living area, dormitory common use areas or duty section/maintenance.
   7.2. Commanders should consider authorizing BAS for Honor Guard members on Subsis-
   tence-in-Kind because their duties will preclude them from making some meals at the dining facility.
   At a minimum, members will complete missed meals forms for BAS reimbursement.
6                                                        SPANGDAHLEMI34-502 10 MARCH 2004


    7.3. Each duty section should provide compensatory time off within 30 days of completion of an
    Honor Guard activity. Compensatory time should be given when assigned Honor Guard duties are
    performed before or after the member’s duty hours or when the assigned duties are performed on hol-
    idays, which are not scheduled as duty days. Compensatory time off is controlled and given by each
    immediate supervisor or section chief. Honor Guard duties performed during an individual’s normal
    duty hours do not qualify for compensatory time off.
    7.4. Each Honor Guard member should be considered for submission of an Air Force Achievement
    Medal upon successful completion of an Honor Guard tour. Successful completion for the purpose of
    decorations is defined as participation in at least one ceremony monthly and no more than one unex-
    cused absence per year for the duration of the tour. The Honor Guard commander should also consider
    other factors including disciplinary problems and compliance with standards. In all cases, there must
    be sufficient and documented levels of superior performance to support the award of a decoration.
    Decoration packages will be submitted by the Honor Guard Commander through the 52 SVS/CC to 52
    MSG/CC for approval no earlier than one month after the member completes a year of service.
    7.5. The annual Honor Guard award winner will receive an incentive flight. Name will be submitted
    by the Honor Guard Commander/OIC through the 52 SVS/CC to the 52d Operations Group for coor-
    dination.
       7.5.1. Quarterly and annual Honor Guard award winners will receive certificates from the Army
       and Air Force Exchange Service and 52 SVS.

8. Geographically Separated Unit Directives.
    8.1. GSUs are authorized a Color Guard Team to perform Formal Retreats, Retirement and Change of
    Command ceremonies.
    8.2. GSUs are required to request support from the 52d Fighter Wing Honor Guard for funeral details
    and Embassy detail requests by submitting an AF Form 1946 to the 52 FW/Honor Guard mailbox.
    8.3. Color Guard members are required to fulfill an 12-month commitment to be officially considered
    for any medals.
       8.3.1. Recommendation for Decoration Print outs (DECOR 6) will be requested through the
       members unit.
       8.3.2. Decoration packages will be written by the Color Guard OIC or NCOIC.
       8.3.3. Decoration packages will be submitted by the member’s unit to 52 SVS/CC for approval
       and routed through 52 MSG/CC for approval.
    8.4. Color Guard contracts will be maintained at Spangdahlem AB.
    8.5. Color Guard practice must be held at least twice a month at the GSU.
       8.5.1. Members are required to attend one Honor Guard practice each quarter at Spangdahlem
       AB.
       8.5.2. An official training roster will be submitted to 52 SVS on a quarterly basis for verification
       of participation.
    8.6. All funding for equipment, supplies and TDY’s are the responsibility of the respective GSU.
SPANGDAHLEMI34-502 10 MARCH 2004                                                                  7


   8.7. The Color Guard OIC/NCOIC is required to adhere to and enforce criteria listed in paragraphs
   3.3.1. to 3.7.4., 5. and 6..

9. Forms adopted: AF Form 1946, Honor Guard Checklist.



                               STEPHEN P. MUELLER, Brigadier General (S), USAF
                               Commander
