BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                      SPANGDAHLEM INSTRUCTION 34-101
SPANGDAHLEM AB (USAFE)                                                                         1 JUNE 2004

                                                                                                     Services

                                                                          USE OF THE BASE THEATER
                                                                                     FOR MEETINGS



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 52 SVS/SVA (Mrs. Tami Schneider)                     Certified by: 52 SVS/CC (Maj. Lisa K. Hansen)
Supersedes SPANGDAHLEMI 34-101,                                                                 Pages: 2
           28 April 2000                                                                 Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 34-1, Morale, Welfare, Recreation and Services
Program. It outlines procedures for persons or groups using the base theater for commander’s calls, sem-
inars, and briefings and applies to all organizations on Spangdahlem Air Base and geographically sepa-
rated units (GSU). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

Gives scheduling priority to 52d Fighter Wing Commander (52 FW/CC) functions. Uses first come, first
served basis for all other scheduling during weekdays. Establishes the 52d Mission Support Group Com-
mander (52 MSG/CC) as approval authority to reprioritize scheduling to meet wing mission requirements.


1. Responsibilities. It is the responsibility of the unit commander, the using agency or the individual in
charge of the meeting to comply with the policies and guidelines in this instruction.

2. Policies and Guidelines:
   2.1. 52d Services Squadron (52 SVS) will make the theater available for official meetings of organi-
   zations or agencies requiring a meeting hall with a large seating capacity and/or facilities for screening
   movies, slides, etc. Reservations are required and can be made up to 1 year in advance of the sched-
   uled meeting. Reservations are to be made by phone or in writing to 52 SVS Command Section. To
   reserve the Eifel West (EW) theater, contact the EW Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES)
   Main Exchange.
2                                                              SPANGDAHLEMI34-101 1 JUNE 2004


       2.1.1. 52 FW/CC functions have priority for scheduling. For all other functions the theater is
       scheduled on first come, first served basis for use from 0730-1700, Monday through Friday; how-
       ever the 52 MSG/CC reserves the right to reprioritize to meet wing mission requirements.
       2.1.2. Anyone needing to use the theater after hours or on Saturday and Sunday must also contact
       AAFES for approval.
    2.2. The using agency or group is responsible for providing equipment such as projectors, cords,
    tables and podiums needed to accommodate their gathering. A public address system is available in
    the theater for use. The system is located in a cabinet behind the screen. Instructions are posted inside
    the cabinet on the door.
    2.3. The using agency or group is responsible for all aspects of safety, security and cleanliness in con-
    nection with their use of the theater. Required actions include, but are not limited to, the following:
       2.3.1. All exit doors will be unlocked and not blocked while the theater is in use.
       2.3.2. Smoking is not permitted in the facility.
       2.3.3. Food and beverages are not permitted.
       2.3.4. Personnel will not be allowed to put their feet on the seats, furnishings, walls, or otherwise
       disfigure the premises.
       2.3.5. All tables, cords, displays, projectors and other equipment will be removed from the theater
       at the completion of the meeting.
       2.3.6. All lights will be turned off when leaving. The light control panels are located at the right
       rear as you enter the auditorium and to the right of the stage as you face it.
       2.3.7. The theater, including the auditorium, lobby and outside area must be cleaned of any litter
       or debris resulting from the using agency or group. Groups or agencies leaving the theater in an
       unsatisfactory condition may be denied further use of the facility.
       2.3.8. The building must be completely secured and all keys returned to 52 SVS/SVA office
       immediately after using the theater. If keys cannot be returned before 1700, they must be turned in
       at 0700 the next duty day. Keys will not be kept over a weekend or holiday without prior approval
       from the 52 SVS/CC. Groups or agencies failing to return the keys will de denied future use of the
       theater.
    2.4. Units requiring public address equipment, other than what is available in the theater, should con-
    tact 52d Communications Squadron Comm Systems Requirements (52 CS/SCXP) for support. All
    verbal requests must be followed by the submission of an AF Form 3215, Communication-Com-
    puter Systems Requirement Document, to 52 CS/SCXP.



                                              STEPHEN P. MUELLER, Brigadier General (S), USAF
                                              Commander
