BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          SPANGDAHLEM AIR BASE
SPANGDAHLEM AB (USAFE)                                                 INSTRUCTION 23-102

                                                                              27 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                           Materiel Management

                                                      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL PHARMACY
                                                                          PROGRAM


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 52 LRS/LGRSMS                                                       Certified by: 52 LRS/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col Jason D. Nulton)
Supersedes:    SPANGDAHLEMABI23-102,                                                     Pages: 11
               28 May 2008


This instruction implements the Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 23-1, Materiel Management
Policy and Procedures. It establishes formal structure and techniques to fully integrate continuous
improvement throughout the 52d Fighter Wing. It outlines support provided by and to the Hazardous
Material Pharmacy Program (HPP). It applies to all 52 FW organizations on Spangdahlem Air Base
(SAB) and all geographically separated units (GSU). Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847s from the field through the appropriate
functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision changes
Hazardous Material Pharmacy (HAZMAT) to read Hazardous Material Pharmacy (HAZMART);
it too, realigns Hazardous Material Process (HMP) under 52d Logistics Readiness Squadron (52
LRS) Materiel Management Flight and changes International Merchants Purchase Agreement
Card (IMPAC) to read Government Purchase Card (GPC). This revision also requires Material
Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) information to be in English and a list of all unauthorized chemicals
to be provided to the Hazardous Material Management Process (HMMP) Team during the
 2                                         SPANGDAHLEMABI23-102 27 OCTOBER 2011


bidding process. This revision includes requirements for 52d Contracting Squadron (52 CONS)
to verify coordination on purchases. The Enterprise Environmental Safety and Occupational
Health-Management System (EESOH-MIS) is a web-base information system for assembling,
comparing, evaluating, storing environmental and civil engineering information. The purpose of
EESOH-MIS is to track, record and report information about the use, prevention, cleanup, and
disposal of the effects of potential toxic, hazardous materials (HAZMAT), and waste.
1. General. The HMP is an undertaking of the Air Force Center for Engineering and the
Environment that places, at each installation, an operation for effective control of hazardous
commodities.     It will make many contributions toward installation conformance with
environmental mandates. This instruction addresses cross functional or individual installation
group responsibilities, outlined within US Air Force and United States Air Forces in Europe
guidance, while conforming to the needs of SAB and supported activities.
2. 52d Mission Support Group (52 MSG). The HMP is a 52 FW initiative assigned within the
52 MSG. 52d Medical Squadron Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight (52 MDSS/SGPB), 52d
Medical Support Squadron Logistics Flight (MDSS)/SGPB), 52d Civil Engineer Squadron Asset
Management Flight, Environmental Element (52 CES/CEAN) and 52 FW Safety (52 FW/SE),
will continue to work their hazardous material processes in support of the HMP. The 52 CES
Commander 52 (CES/CC), in coordination with the 52 LRS/CC, will ensure HAZMAT
personnel obtain the required DD Form 2875, System Authorization Request, for all current and
future EESOH-MIS users. The responsibility for the environmental tracking system is outlined
in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-7086, Hazardous Material Pharmacy Program, the AF
EESOH-MIS system administration is managed under 52 LRS. It is hereby agreed not to change
this process and leave the access control and system administrative responsibility for SAB under
52 LRS oversight.
     2.1. 52 LRS.
        2.1.1. HAZMART is responsible to the Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health
        Council (ESOHC) for effective resource management and control of hazardous
        commodities. The ESOHC chair will utilize the HMMP Team to provide oversight and
        coordination of the HPP IAW AFI 32-7086 paragraph 2.3.
        2.1.2. HAZMART is aligned under the 52 LRS Materiel Management Flight (52
        LRS/LGRMSH).
        2.1.3. HAZMART is responsible for monitoring materiel consumption by installation
        activities and when sufficient data justifies, recommend level adjustments to reduce the
        overall quantities on the installation.
        2.1.4. When and if approved by HMMP team and under the standardized Air Force
        HAZMAT tracking system reclaimed unopened and serviceable containers will be made
        available as ―Free Issue‖ to all 52 FW Organizations and GSUs.
        2.1.5. HAZMART will maintain a reference of safe alternatives.
        2.1.6. HAZMART will coordinate support activity requests with 52 AMDS/SGPB, 52
        CES/CEAN and 52 FW/SE offices to ensure controls are in place preventing
        unauthorized use of chemicals. Health hazard management and approval responsibilities
        will continue to be performed as outlined in current directives or until such time as 52
SPANGDAHLEMABI23-102 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                          3


     AMDS/SGPB, 52 CES/CEAN and 52 FW/SE personnel are on the HMMP staff to
     assume this role.
     2.1.7. HAZMART will manage a separate centralized HAZMAT storage warehouse
     operation for as many commodities as allowed in compliance with fire and safety
     directives. Building 61 will be utilized for acid, compressed gas cylinders and/or
     corrosive storage and building 600 for flammable assets.
     2.1.8. HAZMART will rotate stock for maximum shelf life usage. Inspection review and
     updating of these items will continue as outlined in current directives.
     2.1.9. HAZMART will be responsible for ensuring all applicable safety, storage, and fire
     directives are complied with for facilities under HAZMART control. HAZMART
     supervision will ensure all deficiencies are correct. If items cannot be resolved at flight
     level, it will be elevated accordingly.
     2.1.10. HAZMART will operate a central order control point for HAZMAT and manage
     the receipt, storage, issue, inspection and distribution of HAZMAT.
     2.1.11. HAZMART will assist customers in the procurement of all local purchase
     hazardous materiel provided the customer completes a local purchase DD 1348-6, Single
     Line Item Requisition System Document, (provided by HAZMART) and provides MSDS
     from the company from which the item is to be purchased. The MSDS must be in
     English. HAZMART will provide local purchase item manufacture information on
     containers in English and German, IAW Final Governing Standard Chapter 5.
     HAZMART will coordinate with 52 LRS Customer Service to have items loaded into
     Enterprise Solution-System (ES-S). Customer Service will, in turn, coordinate with
     contracting for the procurement of these assets. On a case by case basis and with
     HAZMART approval, customers will only be allowed to use their GPCs as a last resort
     for mission essential HAZMAT. Mission essential items are classified as items that, in
     their absence, would ground an aircraft or any other weapon system essential to the
     mission of the 52 FW. Process Authorization Report AF 3952, Chemical/Hazardous
     material Request Authorization, or the electronic equivalent, from the standardized Air
     Force HAZMAT tracking system and coordinate with the HMP both before and after the
     purchase of these items in accordance with AFI 32-7086.
     2.1.12. HAZMART will provide commodities in minimal quantities, which are the most
     effective to perform the mission.
     2.1.13. HAZMART will ensure delivery of all items requested by SAB users, unless the
     customer elects to pick up items themselves. Only personnel certified to transport
     hazardous materiel in Government Motor Vehicle may perform transportation of
     HAZMAT. Training must meet all host nation requirements. Transfers and delivery to
     GSUs will utilize supply transportation channels.
     2.1.14. Activities are allowed the maximum quantity of HAZMAT on hand, which is
     three times the individual shop’s authorized draw amount. For example, if a shop’s
     authorized draw amount of a specific hazardous material is 10 bottles per month, the shop
     is not permitted to have more than 30 bottles of that specific material on-hand at one
     time. Hazardous items that are nonessential to work center mission accomplishment will
     be returned to the HAZMAT. Hazardous commodity bench stocks and supply points will
4                                           SPANGDAHLEMABI23-102 27 OCTOBER 2011


       be deleted in support of this practice; with the exception of aircraft batteries National
       Stock Number 6140-01-492-0227.
       2.1.15. HAZMART is the wing point of contact (POC) for submittal of MSDSs needing
       translation to the predominant language of any work area or shop.
       2.1.16. HAZMART will be authorized to accomplish no notice hazardous inspections in
       the work centers and deficiencies will be reported to shop supervisors, shop
       superintendents and/or squadron commanders.
       2.1.17. Army and Air Force Exchange Service must provide the HMP with an inventory
       of HAZMAT used in their facilities. Hazardous materials stored in the facilities for the
       sole purpose of retail sales should not be included in the inventory.
       2.1.18. 52d Medical Group will provide a listing of HAZMAT commodities being
       utilized in their organization quarterly to the HMP to allow tracking/consumption of
       HAZMAT until they get all HAZMAT approved and on-line with the standardized Air
       Force HAZMAT tracking system. This excludes pharmaceutical items as defined in AFI
       41-209 Medical Logistic Support Chapter 6 Paragraph 6.1.3.
    2.1.19. GSUs and other agencies requiring Nuclear Ordnance Commodity Management
    (NOCM) items need to get approval and have assets tracked in the standardized Air Force
    HAZMAT tracking system. NOCM is defined as base-military spares used on or with any
    nuclear weapons, which must be specifically controlled because of design, security, or
    quality control requirement. Immediately upon consumption of HAZMAT, customers must
    report bar code labels applicable to the container back to the HAZMART, either in person,
    through e-mail, or via fax at DSN 452-5021. HAZMART will deliver and pick up full/empty
    gas cylinders to base customers. It is the unit’s responsibility to dispose of empty hazardous
    containers and acquired waste. Customers can contact DSN 452-5124/5125 to set up
    hazardous waste (HW) drop off appointments through HW Manager for the HW Storage
    Area located at building 610. HAZMART will perform "case-by-case" pick-ups of empty
    containers and obtain bar code label information. This will be determined by size of shop
    and amount of material ordered. All others must report their bar codes from empty
    containers via email or personal visit to the HAZMART with the required information.
    HAZMART will conduct quarterly surveillance report for OPEN BAR CODES. Those
    customers identified during the surveillance containing OPEN BAR CODES longer than the
    DRAW FREQUENCY stated on the approved Process Authorization Report, AF 3952
    electronic equivalent, will be reported to the shop supervisor. Repeated violations of OPEN
    BAR CODE reporting will result in notification to the unit's leadership chain of command
    and as a last resort to the squadron commander. If it is determined that the DRAW
    FREQUENCY has changed since the Process Authorization Report (AF 3952 electronic
    equivalent) was submitted, the customer will return to the HAZMART and/or update the
    DRAW FREQUENCY in the approved environmental tracking system.
       2.1.20. Justification for having a HAZMAT authorization request in the standardized Air
       Force HAZMAT tracking system for more than one year without transaction must be
       provided to HAZMART in writing by the shop superintendent. If no justification can be
       provided, the authorization for the requested material will be revoked or made inactive.
SPANGDAHLEMABI23-102 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                         5


     2.1.21. HAZMART will be responsible for maintaining a roster of HAZMAT POCs and
     ensuring that appointment letters are up to date. A quarterly review of shop points of
     contact information and DD form 2875 will be made.
     2.1.22. The distribution of HAZMAT from supply points to shops will be eliminated,
     with the exception of aircraft batteries NSN 6140-01-422-0227. A supply point is
     defined as an intangible geographical location where supplies, services and materials are
     located and issued. These locations are temporary and mobile, normally being occupied
     for up to 72 hour. HAZMART will have sufficient personnel on stand-by 24 hours a day,
     seven days a week to provide delivery of required HAZMAT to all shops in a manner that
     will not delay the 52 FW mission.
  2.2. 52 CONS.
     2.2.1. Micro-Purchases- by the utilization of the established Blanket Purchase
     Agreements (BPA), 52 CONS will ensure HAZMAT is not purchased without approval
     of the HAZMART. They will then place a call against the BPA using the ES-S as
     payment method. Once HAZMART receives the product from the vendor they are
     responsible for signing the invoice and tracking these items.
     2.2.2. Will enforce contractual provisions and requirements. MSDS information must be
     in English. Shops and work areas requiring operating instructions in accordance with
     final governing standard for Germany paragraph C5.3.6.1 MSDSs must be provided in
     advance of new or additional HAZMAT being utilized by contractors on SAB or its
     supported GSUs. Ensure MSDSs are included or added as a deliverable item on all
     materiel, service, or construction contracts or any other contracts involving the delivery
     or use of hazardous material on SAB or its supported GSUs.
     2.2.3. Will ensure vendors provide MSDS information and quantity data prior to award
     of contract.
     2.2.4. Will not purchase substitute products unless specifically approved by the
     customer; 52 AMDS/SGPB, 52 CES/CEAN and 52 FW/SE.
     2.2.5. Will search for "unit of use" HAZMAT packaging. Ensure all HAZMAT
     purchased through 52 CONS (i.e. BPAs, Standard Form (SF) 44, Purchase Order-Invoice
     Voucher, and AF 9, Request for Purchase) are approved for use and purchase by 52
     AMDS/SGPB, 52 CES/CEAN and 52 FW/SE.
  2.3. 52 CES/CEAN.
     2.3.1. Continually reviews on-going changes to current environmental regulations to
     ensure environmental compliance of SAB HPP.
     2.3.2. Identifies "Environmentally Friendly" substitutes.
     2.3.3. Coordinates and authorizes all new chemical use requests.
     2.3.4. Manages the collection, recycling and disposal of HW.
     2.3.5. Prepares regulatory reports.
6                                           SPANGDAHLEMABI23-102 27 OCTOBER 2011


       2.3.6. 52 CES/CEAN cannot input HW generation and disposal data into the HAZMAT
       computer tracking system until an effective system for tracking the use of HAZMAT and
       subsequent disposal of empty containers is implemented.
       2.3.7. Provides the HAZMART staff representation to coordinate electronically routed
       user authorization requests. This representation will be in conjunction with 52
       AMDS/SGPB, 52 CE/CEAN, and 52 FW/SE to promote the HPP operating concept.
       2.3.8. 52 CES/CEAN will facilitate the transfer of expired, excess or unserviceable
       HAZMAT that have been reclassified as hazardous waste from the hazardous materials
       users to the regional Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office. They will provide
       hazardous waste disposal services.
    2.4. 52 LRS Materiel Management Flight (52 LRS/LGRM):
       2.4.1. Ensures all new HAZMAT requisitioned through ES-S, AF 9, SF 44, GPC, Civil
       Engineer Materiel Acquisition System (CEMAS) BPAs are authorized by 52
       AMDS/SGPB, 52 CES/CEAN and 52 FW/SE.
       2.4.2. Quarterly, with 52 AMDS/SGPB, maintains authorization exception code data
       within CEMAS for all hazardous materiel and perform validations of items with Issue
       Exception Code (IEX) data assigned, in conjunction with materiel applicable to Federal
       Standard 313 C (https://today.dla.mil/J-3/shelflife/default.asp), Material Safety Data,
       Transportation Data and Disposal Data for Hazardous Materials Furnished to
       Government Activities, Table I. (cite source)
       2.4.3. Ensures controls are in place to prevent unauthorized use or release of items
       assigned Issue Exception Code 9.
       2.4.4. Performs HAZMAT tracking, control and consumption reporting actions on all
       hazardous material procured outside of the HMP to 52 AMDS/SGPB and 52 CES/CEAN.
       2.4.5. Will assist in ensuring work areas or facilities where HAZMAT is stored meet
       Department of Defense (DoD), Final German Governing Standard, etc, requirements.
       2.4.6. Inspection personnel will provide shelf-life extension training to all shops using
       hazardous materials. .
       2.4.7. Coordinates with 52 AMDS/SGPB and 52 CES/CEAN to identify
       "Environmentally Friendly" substitutes where possible, prior to procurement through
       purchasing avenues outside of HPP control.
       2.4.8. HAZMART personnel will provide training to new users and shop HM POC’s for
       the standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system.
3. 52 AMDS/SGPB.
    3.1. Determines which chemicals present either a health or environmental hazard and assign
    IEX code 9.
    3.2. Identify "Environmentally Friendly" and less toxic substitutes.
    3.3. Authorize all new chemical use requests before an order is placed.
SPANGDAHLEMABI23-102 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                           7


   3.4. Determine which organization or work center is authorized to use which HAZMAT and
   maintain the master authorization approval register.
   3.5. In conjunction with the HAZMAT users, establish specific maximum allowable use
   quantities for each product used within the work site.
   3.6. During workplace surveys, ensure only authorized HAZMAT is in use, maximum
   quantities are not exceeded, engineering controls and protective equipment are adequate to
   protect workers and emphasize chemical substitution.
   3.7. Provide HAZMART representation to review electronically routed authorization
   requests, review IEX data and input or maintain HAZMAT. This representation will be
   performed in conjunction with 52 AMDS/SGPB, 52 CES/CEAN, and 52 FW/SE to support
   the HPP operating concept.
4. Hazardous Materiel User Responsibilities.
   4.1. 52MDSS/SGSL.
   4.2. Reports items coming through the medical supply system to HAZMART for tracking
   purposes.
   4.3. Ensure only authorized HAZMAT is used and ordered through the HAZMART, email
   with attached AF 2005, Issue-Turn-in Request, only if not trained and on line with the
   standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system. Customers at the time they have access
   to the standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system, will place all hazardous orders in
   the environmental tracking system via the Air Force Portal.
   4.4. Coordinate with 52 AMDS/SGPB, 52 CES/CEAN and 52 FW/SE to obtain HAZMAT
   purchase authorization. AF Form 3952 will be used to initiate the initial request for
   HAZMAT.
   4.5. Obtain 52 AMDS/SGPB, 52 CES/CEV and 52 FW/SE approvals IAW AFI 32-7086
   prior to procuring any hazardous or potentially hazardous item through any purchasing
   method (GPC card, SF 44 and AF 9, ES-S, etc.). All purchases must be coordinated through
   the HAZMART prior to procuring the HAZMAT.
   4.6. HAZMAT users should ensure that hazardous materials are used only for the purposes
   outlined in the task descriptions of their hazardous materials authorizations.
   4.7. Ensure HAZMAT is stored in areas approved by installation fire and safety officials.
   4.8. Ensure HAZMAT is disposed of properly utilizing approved methods and procedures.
   4.9. Ensure HAZMAT stored or ordered does not exceed authorized limits as outlined in
   paragraph 2.1.14.
   4.10. Report HAZMAT spills and releases through the Base Emergency Spill Response
   Team. Proper spill reporting procedures can be found in 52 FW Hazardous Material Spill
   Prevention and Response Plan, dated August 2009 (https://ice.usafe.af.mil/sites/52FW/XP/
   XPP/MPL/hmsprp/default.aspx).
   4.11. All work centers with standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system shop codes
   are required to appoint primary and alternate HAZMAT POCs in writing. HAZMAT
 8                                           SPANGDAHLEMABI23-102 27 OCTOBER 2011


     monitors will be appointed by the Non Commissioned Officer in Charge, section lead, or
     shop superintendent.
        4.11.1. HAZMAT POCs will be responsible for submitting and certifying AF 3952 for
        their respective shops. The requesting and certifying individuals on a request may be the
        same person as long as the process authorization is validated by a competent authority in
        the shop and has knowledge of the hazards being utilized/requested.
        4.11.2. HAZMAT POCs are required to receive Hazardous Communication training
        from Public Health and standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system training from
        HAZMART.
     4.11.3. HAZMAT POCs will be the focal point for all HAZMAT related questions from the
     standardized Air Force HAZMAT tracking system approving officials.
        4.11.4. HAZMAT POCs will be responsible for their shop’s hazardous materials that are
        being stored in the HAZMART’s courtesy storage, if needed at bldg 600 or bldg 61.
        4.11.5. HAZMAT POCs should be able to maintain the position for at least one year or
        have a date of expected return from oversees compensating the timed criteria. When
        HAZMAT POCs can no longer fulfill their responsibilities, either due to job change,
        permanent change of station , or deployment, they will find a suitable replacement and
        ensure that individual is appointed in writing.
5. General Procedures.
     5.1. HAZMART will maintain a section operating instruction and continuity book detailing
     specific guidance. These instructions will be updated, as added responsibilities are assigned,
     to serve as a training tool for assigned personnel.
     5.2. HAZMAT is identified by 52 AMDS/SGPB and coded on records having an IEX 9.
     Products within the range of Federal Standard 313 C, must be reviewed by 52 AMDS/SGPB
     prior to first time ordering and coded as to the content hazard IEX 9. Commodities identified
     as having an IEX 9 will be controlled and tracked by HAZMART personnel. Consumption of
     these products will be reported to HAZMART by the commodity user when required.
     5.3. In SPANGDAHLEM (SABI) 90-821 Hazard Communication, exceptions to
     HAZMART tracking and control are identified as:
        5.3.1. Food, drugs, cosmetics, office supplies, or other personal items.
        5.3.2. Retail items sold in commissaries, exchanges, DoD Dependent Schools, Morale
        Welfare and Recreation and Non-appropriated Fund activities, unless purchased by SAB
        work centers for use in industrial processes.
        5.3.3. Substances present as a solid in any manufactured items, where exposure to the
        substance does not occur under normal conditions of use (i.e. thermometers, mercury
        vapor lamps).
        5.3.4. Substances used for personal, family, or household purposes.
        5.3.5. Products that have a consumer product label (Consumer Product Safety Act) and
        are used in the same manner, amount, or frequency as a normal consumer.
SPANGDAHLEMABI23-102 27 OCTOBER 2011                                                           9


      5.3.6. Substances used in a laboratory, hospital or other medical facility under the direct
      supervision of a technically qualified individual.
      5.3.7. Any chemicals or paint products not assigned an IEX code 9.
      5.3.8. Items used for deployment/mobility, such as Perithium and insect repellent.
      5.3.9. Items considered ―Consumer Use‖ and not industrial, under the exemption list in
      SABI 90-821.
   5.4. Activities with HAZMAT assigned IEX 9 that are designated for deployment will prior
   to the deployment; establish a Temporary Duty account through ESSOH-MIS for all required
   items and report which items will deploy and return to the installation upon redeployment.
   Material used off the installation will be cleared from the HAZMAT tracking and control
   system.
   5.5. Only authorized HAZMAT will be stored in the wing improvement center; HAZMAT
   must be ordered through HAZMART. Self-help customers do not required a Process
   Authorization Report, AF 3952 electronic equivalent, 52 CES will manage these items
   through the CEMAS system. 52 CES will be responsible for effective control, as outlined in
   paragraph 2.4.1.
6. Resources.
   6.1. Funding and training requirements will be provided to the HMMP Team for validation
   and submission to 52 CES/CEAN for programming in the Automated Civil Engineer System
   Project Management.
   6.2. Vehicle requirements for one ton and a half stake bed truck, one 4K diesel forklift and
   one pick-up truck will be submitted to the 52 LRS for higher headquarters approval.




                                           CHRISTOPHER P. WEGGEMAN, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 10                                      SPANGDAHLEMABI23-102 27 OCTOBER 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 23-110, Volume 3, Part 2, USAF Supply Manual, 1 October 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2003
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materiel Management, 1 November 2004
SPANGDAHLEMABI90-821, Hazard Communication, 30 March 2005
Federal Standard 313 C Material Safety Data, Transportation Data and Disposal Data for
Hazardous Materials Furnished to Government Activities, 21.March 2000
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF 3952, Chemical/Hazardous Material Request Authorization, 1 March 2005
SF 44, Purchase Order-Invoice Voucher, 1 October 1983
AF 9, Request for Purchase, 19 September 2006
DD 1348-6, Single Line Item Requisition System Document, February 1985
DD 2875, System Authorization Access Request (SAAR), August 2009
AF 2005, Issue-Turn-in Request, 26 August 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
BPA—-Blanket Purchase Agreements
CC—Commander (in Charge)
CEMAS—-Civil Engineer Materiel Acquisition System
CEAN—Civil Engineer Environmental
CES—Civil Engineer Squadron
CONS—Continental of the United States
DoD—Department of Defense
EESOH—MIS--Enterprise Environmental Safety and Occupational Health-Management System
ESOHC—-Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Council
ES—S – Enterprise Solution-Supply
FW—Fighter Wing
SPANGDAHLEMABI23-102 27 OCTOBER 2011                     11


FW/SE—Fighter Wing / Safety
GPC—Government Purchase Card
GSU—geographically separated units
HAZMART—Hazardous Material Pharmacy
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
HMMP—Hazardous Material Management Process Team
HMP—Hazardous material Program
HPP—Hazardous Material Pharmacy Program
HW—hazardous waste
IAW—In Accordance With
IEX—Issue Exception Code
IMPAC—-International Merchants Purchase Agreement Card
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
MSG—Mission Support Group
NOCM—Nuclear Ordnance Commodity Management
NSN—National Stock Number
POC—Point of Contact
SAB—Spangdahlem Air Base
SABI—Spangdahlem Air Base Instruction
SGPB—Bio Environmental
