BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          SPANGDAHLEM AIR BASE
SPANGDAHLEM AB (USAFE)                                                 INSTRUCTION 48-102

                                                                           28 NOVEMBER 2014

                                                                             Aerospace Medicine

                                                  SPANGDAHLEM VETERINARY SERVICES



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 52 MDG/SGVS                                                        Certified by: 52 MSG/CC
                                                                          (Col Nathan R. Rump)
Supersedes: SPANGDAHLEMABI48-102,                                                        Pages: 10
            30 JUNE 2010


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine
Enterprise. This instruction establishes procedures for the control of pets on Spangdahlem Air
Base (AB) and all government-leased housing areas. This instruction applies to all personnel
assigned or attached to the 52d Fighter Wing (52 FW). Ensure that all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363_USAFESUP, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility using the AF 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain
of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The Spangdahlem Veterinary Treatment Facility (VTF) requires pet owners to sign an Animal
Ownership Contract prior to services rendered. If no documentation of rabies vaccination or ISO-
standard microchip is provided, Spangdahlem will vaccinate against rabies and microchip the pet
at the first visit. The updated regulation also requires animals traveling in cars to be restrained
in accordance with German law. Pet owners will not leave animals unattended in vehicles if
temperatures are below 32ºF or above 55 ºF. Between the temperatures of 32ºF and 55 ºF pets
may still experience distress. If pets left unattended in vehicles are found to be in distress, an
attempt will be made to locate the pet’s owner to alleviate the animal’s distress. If the owner is
 2                                         SPANGDAHLEMABI48-102 28 NOVEMBER 2014


not located, 52 SFS may enter the vehicle at their discretion. When 52 SFS enters a vehicle to
release a pet, a 52 SFS Management Information System report, with required paperwork, will
be generated.
1. General:
     1.1. Definitions:
        1.1.1. Pets - Allowable pets include domestic dogs or cats, ferrets, aquarium fish, small
        birds, hamsters, gerbils or rabbits in cages. Any other naturally wild or barnyard animals
        are not included. Specific exceptions must be coordinated through the 52d Mission
        Support Group Commander (52 MSG/CC).
        1.1.2. On base - The term “on base” applies to Spangdahlem AB, Bitburg AB Annex,
        and all Government Leased Housing areas.
     1.2. Policy:
        1.2.1. Pet ownership is a privilege and each pet owner is responsible for compliance with
        this directive, as well as all host-nation laws. The keeping of wild animals or exotic
        species is prohibited on-base. Ownership of banned or restricted breeds is prohibited.
        1.2.2. This instruction will be enforced by 52 SFS.
        1.2.3. Pets may not roam unrestricted on the base. Animals found running loose will be
        apprehended by 52 CES/CEOIE. In accordance with Air Force Instruction 48-131,
        Veterinary Health Services, the Installation Commander will determine the protocol for
        impoundment, disposal, or other physical control of privately-owned or stray animals on
        the installation. Chains or similar devices used to secure pets are discouraged. Host
        nation law has specific provisions that must be followed if a pet is left outside. If a lead
        or leash is used, it should be a length that will not allow the pet to have access to common
        areas (including sidewalks) and preferably will not be fixed to one stationary point. Pet
        owners must ensure the pet cannot jump over or dig under fences, balconies, or other
        containment areas.
        1.2.4. Pet owners will control pet noises that annoy or offend neighbors. Two or more
        documented noise complaints against a pet may result in the pet’s banishment from base.
        Failure to comply with this provision of this instruction may result in the pet owner’s
        removal from government quarters.
        1.2.5. Pet owners will clean up their pet’s feces or vomitus in all areas.
        1.2.6. Vicious pets or trained attack dogs will not be kept on base. Pet owners will
        comply with host nation laws on importation or ownership of specific breeds or species
        of pets (e.g. dangerous dogs).
        1.2.7. Animals involved in an unprovoked bite incident may be banned from base on the
        first offense. Repeat unprovoked bite incidents will result in mandatory banishment.
        Provocation will be determined by 52 MSG/CC with input from the installation VCO.
        Banishment from base will be upon the direction of the 52 MSG/CC as delegated to 52
        SFS/CC through coordination with the installation VCO. The responsible VCO will
        make recommendations based on an animal’s temperament and history.
SPANGDAHLEMABI48-102 28 NOVEMBER 2014                                                             3


       1.2.8. Pet owners will not leave animals unattended in vehicles if temperatures are below
       32ºF or above 55 ºF. Between the temperatures of 32ºF and 55 ºF pets may still
       experience distress. Signs of distress include heavy panting, excessive salivation,
       lethargy, lack of coordination, vomiting, diarrhea, loss of consciousness, and lack of
       response to verbal cues. If pets left unattended in vehicles are found to be in distress, an
       attempt will be made to locate the pet’s owner to alleviate the animal’s distress. If the
       owner is not located, 52 SFS may enter the vehicle at their discretion. Neither the US Air
       Force nor 52 SFS will be liable for any damages resulting to a vehicle as a result of
       actions taken to alleviate the pet’s distress. When 52 SFS enters a vehicle to release a
       pet, a 52 SFS Management Information System report, with required paperwork, will be
       generated.
       1.2.9. Upon the notification of a complaint or recognition of supposed inhumane
       conditions by 52 SFS or 52 CES/CEOIE, the installation VCO will be notified and upon
       review of circumstances and conditions, advise the 52 MSG/CC on disposition of the
       animal. 52 SFS may assist 52 CES/CEOIE in locating the animal for impoundment.
       1.2.10. Commercial breeding or raising of pets on government property is prohibited. Pet
       owners will be denied services from all Army Veterinary Treatment Facilities worldwide
       should their pets sire or become pregnant.
       1.2.11. Pets are not permitted in public buildings except for facilities designated for their
       use. An exception will be made for service animals trained in the assistance of people
       with a disability, pets utilized in approved pet-facilitated therapy programs, and pets kept
       in Department of Defense Dependent School (DoDDS) classrooms, Child Development
       Centers (CDC), Youth Centers (YC), and Teen Centers (TC). The school, CDC, YC, and
       TC will inform the installation VCO of any pets maintained in the vicinity of children
       and will maintain the proper Health Certificates.
       1.2.12. German law imposes absolute liability on animal owners, including damage to
       property or injury to persons caused by a pet, whether the pet is in the owner’s
       possession, lost or abandoned. Liability insurance is recommended for all pet owners.
       1.2.13. Pet abandonment is a crime in Germany and a violation of this regulation.
       Personnel responsible for pet abandonment are subject to disciplinary actions by civil or
       military authorities. Pet owners will sign the Animal Ownership Contract upon
       registering their pets.
       1.2.14. Animals traveling in vehicles must be secured per German law, whether through
       a harness/seatbelt, a secure kennel, or an area in the back of a vehicle separated from the
       front of a vehicle by a metal partition.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. The 52 SFS/CC will:
       2.1.1. Enforce the provisions of this instruction.
       2.1.2. Investigate all animal bites reported to the military or civilian emergency room or
       52 SFS.
       2.1.3. Notify the installation VCO, housing, and the Base Command of any animal that
       has been banished from base.
4                                        SPANGDAHLEMABI48-102 28 NOVEMBER 2014


    2.2. The 52d Medical Group Commander will:
       2.2.1. Notify the Law Enforcement Desk of all bite or scratch incidents involving pets or
       stray animals resulting in medical treatment of an individual.
       2.2.2. Initiate DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite-Potential Rabies Exposure, on all
       military and dependent personnel seeking medical treatment for animal bites or scratches.
       2.2.3. Assist in the investigation of animal bite incidents when necessary.
    2.3. The Installation VCO will:
       2.3.1. Provide complete medical and surgical support for military working dogs.
       2.3.2. Provide outpatient care, immunizations, health certificates, and elective surgical
       procedures on a space-available basis for privately-owned animals of military members
       and other DoD ID card holders.
       2.3.3. Maintain records to ensure the necessary immunizations on all pets of personnel
       assigned or attached to the 52 FW. Upon registration of a pet, Department of Defense
       Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination Certificate, or an approved electronic generated form,
       and a Department of Defense Form 2344, Veterinary Treatment Record, with appropriate
       medical forms, will be initiated. The Veterinary Treatment Record will include a DD
       Form 2343, Veterinary Health Record, with all required information and the Animal
       Ownership Contract and signed by owner of pet.
       2.3.4. Permanently identify all pets registered to personnel assigned to Spangdahlem AB
       with an ISO-standard microchip. This identification includes pets living off base.
       2.3.5. Issue rabies tags to vaccinated pets and maintain records of those pets.
       2.3.6. Maintain a list of local German veterinarians that provide veterinary services, and
       kennel facilities offering housing of pets.
       2.3.7. Monitor the quarantine of all animal rabies suspects. DD Form 2623, Animal
       Home Quarantine, will be used to authorize home confinement of a privately-owned
       rabies suspect. Wild or unowned dogs, cats, or ferrets involved in a bite or scratch
       incident will be euthanized immediately by the installation VCO and specimens
       submitted for rabies testing.
       2.3.8. Conduct facility sanitation and general health inspections of all CDC- or DoDDS-
       owned pets on a frequency not less than as outlined by Air Force Joint Instruction 48-
       131, Veterinary Health Services Ch. 4-1 para (3). The VCO may be called upon to
       perform a sanitation inspection of base housing related to a pet ownership situation.
    2.4. 52 CES/CEOIE will:
       2.4.1. Apprehend uncontrolled or stray pets on the base and transfer them to the
       Spangdahlem Vet Clinic for Scan of ID or Spiecher Vet if animal is identified to have no
       owner. Pets may not be held at the Pest Management Facility Building 777.
       2.4.2. Apprehend any stray, wild or loose animal that has been involved in a bite
       incident. Wild or un-owned dogs, cats, or ferrets involved in a bite or scratch incident
       will be euthanized immediately by the installation VCO and specimens submitted for
       rabies testing. At no time will an animal be shot by a firearm unless it is a life-
SPANGDAHLEMABI48-102 28 NOVEMBER 2014                                                          5


      threatening situation. If such action is deemed necessary, care will be taken not to
      destroy or injure the head, and the carcass will be immediately delivered to the VCO for
      laboratory testing.
   2.5. Pet Owners will:
      2.5.1. Register their pets with the Spangdahlem VTF and provide documentation of
      current rabies vaccination within 14 days of arrival. If no documentation is provided,
      Spangdahlem VTF will vaccinate against rabies at the owner’s expense at the first visit.
      2.5.2. Allow Spangdahlem VTF to microchip pets upon the first examination performed
      at the Spangdahlem VTF (if the pet is not already microchipped).
      2.5.3. Notify the Spangdahlem VTF when the pet has been, or will be, permanently
      removed from the base. Owners will out-process with Spangdahlem VTF and transfer
      their pet’s records to their gaining base.
      2.5.4. Transfer medical records maintained at the Spangdahlem VTF upon change of
      ownership of a pet with a Transfer of Ownership Form.
      2.5.5. Maintain cleanliness of the grounds where pets are kept. Clean up all feces or
      vomitus from pets.
      2.5.6. Keep pets under control and from being a nuisance. Pets will be considered a
      nuisance for such acts as running loose, chasing persons or vehicles, incessant barking, or
      littering grounds for which others have maintenance responsibilities.
      2.5.7. Follow all host-nation laws with regards to animal and pet ownership.
3. Procedures:
   3.1. Registration:
      3.1.1. Pet owners must register their pets with the Spangdahlem VTF within 14 days
      upon arrival for duty at the 52 FW or when an animal reaches 14 weeks of age. Owners
      must also sign an Animal Ownership Contract. Personnel who own pets are required to
      out-process through the Spangdahlem VTF prior to final departure from the installation.
      The owner will sign out the necessary health certificates and records regarding the animal
      at that time.
      3.1.2. If pet ownership is transferred, it is the responsibility of the original owner to
      report the change of ownership to the Spangdahlem VTF.
   3.2. Immunizations. Animals will be immunized in accordance with the following
   requirements:
      3.2.1. All dogs, cats and ferrets over 14 weeks of age will be immunized against rabies
      initially and subsequently in accordance with applicable host-nation laws and policies
      established by the VCO.
      3.2.2. Dogs: Other canine immunizations (e.g. canine distemper, hepatitis, parvovirus,
      parainfluenza virus and leptospirosis) will be given in accordance with applicable host-
      nation laws (if any) and policies established by the VCO.
6                                        SPANGDAHLEMABI48-102 28 NOVEMBER 2014


       3.2.3. Cats: Other feline immunizations (e.g. feline rhinotracheitis, calicivirus and
       panleukopenia virus) will be given in accordance with applicable host-nation laws (if
       any) and policies established by the VCO. Proof of a negative Feline Leukemia
       Virus/Feline Immunodeficiency Virus test is strongly recommended.
       3.2.4. All animals arriving to Spangdahlem AB will be considered unimmunized unless a
       written certificate of current immunization, issued by a licensed veterinarian, can be
       shown as documentation.
    3.3. Animal Control:
       3.3.1. Pet owners will ensure their pet is accompanied by a responsible person capable of
       controlling the animal.
       3.3.2. Cats and dogs will wear a collar or harness with the rabies immunization tag
       attached when they are outdoors. Additionally, dogs with aggressive tendencies will be
       further restricted by a muzzle or short leash. This applies to all dogs of breeds
       recognized as dangerous according to applicable host nation laws.
       3.3.3. 52 CES/CEOIE will be responsible for stray animal control. Strays caught will be
       brought to Spangdahlem Vet Clinic for Scan of ID or Spiecher Vet Clinic if animal is
       identified to have no owner. Dogs that are ID'd as pets and off the leash roaming base
       after Spangdahlem Vet Clinic hours will be brought to the Dog Park adjacent to building
       410 after duty hours. In accordance with AFI 48-131, the installation commander will
       determine the protocol for impoundment, disposal, or other physical control of privately-
       owned and stray animals on the installation. The Spangdahlem VTF will be available
       during weekly business hours to assist in identification of stray pets and their registered
       owners.
       3.3.4. Fees may be levied against owners of impounded pets to defray the costs of
       impoundment. Fees will be assessed in an amount sufficient to defray costs of
       confinement, necessary medical treatment and immunizations, if required. No pet will be
       released without being registered and meeting the VCO's requirements for
       immunizations. Emergency veterinary care and consultation services for stray animals
       will be provided in accordance with AFI 48-131. Off-base pet owners can obtain
       information about stray animals picked up on base by contacting 52 CES/CEOIE.
    3.4. Rabies Suspects:
       3.4.1. Military personnel involved in an animal bite or scratch incidents will seek
       documented medical consultation or treatment within one duty day. Dependents involved
       in an animal bite or scratch incident are strongly encouraged to seek prompt medical
       treatment.
       3.4.2. Personnel who observe an animal on base showing unusual or threatening
       behavior will notify 52 CES/CEOIE, who will take immediate steps to capture the
       animal. Off-base personnel should contact appropriate local national agencies.
       3.4.3. If a pet bites or scratches, the injured person (or guardian, if the individual is a
       juvenile) should obtain as much information about the biting animal as possible (while
       avoiding further injury). Ownership, location, type of animal, color, and vaccination
       history are all vital facts that must be obtained. If the animal is wild or appears to be a
SPANGDAHLEMABI48-102 28 NOVEMBER 2014                                                         7


     stray animal, 52 CES/CEOIE should be notified to attempt to apprehend the animal.
     Medical personnel treating a bite or scratch incident should reference Medical Group
     Instruction 48-103, Management and Treatment of Animal Related Incidents.
     3.4.4. Pets which have bitten or scratched a person which are owned by military
     personnel will be examined by Spangdahlem VTF personnel and then quarantined at
     home or at a civilian veterinary clinic at the owner’s expense. After the 10-day
     quarantine period, if deemed healthy under examination by a veterinarian, and after all
     requirements of relevant instructions are met, the pet will be released to the owner. Off
     base veterinarians must provide documentation to the installation VCO when they
     perform a post-quarantine examination of an animal. Should an owner refuse to follow
     this provision, 52 SFS may be requested to assist the Spangdahlem VTF.
  3.5. Disposition of Dead Animals:
     3.5.1. Owners are responsible for disposal of dead pets. Pets that die at home may be
     delivered to the Spangdahlem VTF for disposal by the VTF at the owner’s expense.
     Pet owners will comply with host-nation laws regarding the disposition of deceased pets.
     Cremation service information is available through the Spangdahlem VTF.
     3.5.2. Animals which die on Spangdahlem AB are subject to necropsy examinations by
     the VCO when the VCO deems it necessary. Dead animals will be reported to the
     Spangdahlem VTF by 52 SFS, or the 52 Civil Engineer Squadron (52 CES).
     3.5.3. Dead stray or wild animals will be removed from base areas by 52 CES personnel.
  3.6. Veterinary Services:
     3.6.1. Veterinary service provided to pets owned by military personnel and their
     dependents is subject to availability of veterinary personnel and other resources. Hours
     of operation will be established by the installation veterinarian. Veterinary care for
     privately owned pets will be provided only during regular clinic hours on a space-
     available basis. Emergency care is not offered at the Spangdahlem VTF. Personnel may
     use any of the civilian veterinarians in the area. A list of off base veterinarians will be
     available at the Spangdahlem VTF.
     3.6.2. The VTF is operated as an outpatient clinic for the purpose of administering
     required immunizations, diagnostic services, and treatment of those diseases which are
     real or potential threats to the health of the community or its animal population. Limited
     in-patient care is provided as unit staffing permits. Proof of ownership will be required,
     as veterinary care is limited to bona fide pets of military members or other DoD ID card
     holders authorized military medical privileges.
     3.6.3. All biologicals and medications used for disease control of privately-owned pets
     will be furnished at the owner’s expense.
     3.6.4. A $2.00 surcharge will be assessed per cash register transaction when services or
     supplies are received at the VTF.
8                                   SPANGDAHLEMABI48-102 28 NOVEMBER 2014


    3.6.5. All dogs and cats registered with and receiving services from the VTF, whether
    residing on or off base, will be permanently identified with an ISO-standard microchip.




                                        NATHAN R. RUMP, Colonel, USAF
                                        52d Mission Support Group Commander
SPANGDAHLEMABI48-102 28 NOVEMBER 2014                                                       9


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 48-131/ AR 40-905, Veterinary Health Services, 29 Aug 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management Of Records, 1 Mar 2008 and USAFESUP, 25 March 2008
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 22 Aug 2011
Medical Group Instruction 48-103, Management and Treatment of Animal Related Incidents, 1
Nov 2008
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE SURGEON GENERAL,
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE AND THE SURGEON GENERAL, UNITED STATES
ARMY, U.S. Army Veterinary Service Support for United States Air Force , August 2003
Forms Adopted
AF Form 53, Security Force Desk Blotter
DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination Certificate
DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite-Potential Rabies Exposure
DD Form 2343, Veterinary Health Record
DD Form 2344, Veterinary Treatment Record
DD Form 2623, Animal Home Quarantine;
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronym
AB—Air Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CC—Commander
CDC—Child Development Centers
CES—Civil Engineer Squadron
CES/CEOIE—Civil Engineering Squadron/Pest Management
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDDS—Department of Defense Dependent School
FW—Fighter Wing
MSG—Mission Support Group
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
 10                                 SPANGDAHLEMABI48-102 28 NOVEMBER 2014


TC—Teen Center
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
YC—Youth Center
VCO—Veterinary Corps Officer
VTF—Veterinary Treatment Facility
