BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        SPANGDAHLEM AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 91-212
SPANGDAHLEM AB (USAFE)
                                                                                          13 APRIL 2009
                                                                                                  Safety

                                                 52D FIGHTER WING BIRD/WILDLIFE AIRCRAFT
                                                               STRIKE HAZARD (BASH) PLAN


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                           publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:             There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 52 FW/SEF                                         Certified by: 52 FW/SE (Lt Col Geoffrey A. Maki)
Supersedes: SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212,                                                             Pages: 13
            9 January 2003


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 91-2, Safety Programs. It establishes
guidance and procedures, in accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 91-202, The US Air Force
Mishap Prevention Program, AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, and Air Force Pamphlet
(AFPAM) 91-212, Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Management Techniques, to reduce the
potential for bird aircraft strike hazards at Spangdahlem Air Base (SAB). This instruction applies to all
organizations on SAB with a responsibility to help reduce this possibility and to increase awareness
when bird activity increases. Commanders and supervisors ensure work centers will comply with this
directive. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes to this publication include addition of the roles and responsibilities of the 726 AMS, updates of
offices of responsibility, BASH countermeasures, and composition of the BASH Working Group.
1. General.
   1.1. Daily and seasonal migratory bird movements create a bird strike hazard for operations of both
   the 52d Fighter Wing (FW) and the 726th Air Mobility Squadron (726 AMS). These hazards reduce
   the effectiveness of the flying missions through loss of valuable assets, manpower, and the repair
   costs they can incur. In addition, the presence of large numbers of birds may result in the periodic
   termination of flying operations. This instruction establishes procedures to help minimize these
   hazards. No single solution exists for the BASH problem; however, through a combined cooperative
   effort of several organizations, employing a variety of techniques, we can reduce the impact birds
   have on our wing. This instruction is designed to:
 2                                                       SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212 13 APRIL 2009


        1.1.1. Establish roles and responsibilities of the personnel instrumental in implementing the
        plan.
        1.1.2. Establish a Bird/Wildlife Hazard Working Group (BHWG) and designate responsibilities
        to its members.
        1.1.3. Establish procedures to identify high-hazard situations.
        1.1.4. Provide guidance to supervisors and aircrews for declaring alerts or discontinuing flying
        operations when required.
        1.1.5. Maintain an effective partnership between the host wing and the 726 AMS.
        1.1.6. Provide guidance on the employment of bird countermeasures.
        1.1.7. Establish aircraft and airfield operating procedures to avoid hazard situations.
        1.1.8. Provide guidance to all assigned and transient aircrews for disseminating information
        concerning bird hazards and avoidance procedures in conjunction with the German Bird Notice
        to Airmen (BIRDTAM) system.
        1.1.9. Provide guidance on proper employment of bird and wildlife dispersion techniques.
        1.1.10. Develop and improve techniques to decrease airfield attractiveness to birds while
        maintaining adherence with United Facilities Criteria 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning
        and Design.
     1.2. SAB is located in the Eifel region of Germany near several waterways including the Kyll (5
     miles SW) and Mosel (20 miles S) rivers, as well as Lake Echternach, Luxembourg (30 miles SW).
     The Kyll River valley, a major nesting area for ducks, bounds the base to the southwest. The
     remaining sides consist of privately owned farmland and the Wittlich forest. The forest and
     farmlands are major attractions for various birds during the growing season between March and
     November.
     1.3. The 52 FW conducts flying operations all over the world. The wing flies numerous low-level
     routes and utilizes several bombing ranges at these locations. For detailed descriptions of specific
     low-level flying areas and bombing ranges, contact 52d Operations Group (52 OG), Stan/Eval (52
     OG/OGV).
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. 52 FW Commander (52 FW/CC):
        2.1.1. Reviews recommendations from BHWG for approval/disapproval.
     2.2. 52 FW Vice Commander (52 FW/CV):
        2.2.1. Establishes, implements and administers the wing BASH Program.
        2.2.2. Chairs the semi-annual BHWG meetings.
     2.3. 52 FW Flight Safety Office (52 FW/SEF).
        2.3.1. Ensures base-wide compliance with this instruction.
        2.3.2. Compiles all bird/wildlife strike data, damaging and non-damaging, and inputs the data
        into the Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS) database.
        2.3.3. Ensures maintenance and flying squadron debrief sections and squadron Flight Safety
        Officers (FSOs) are utilizing the automated AF Form 853, Air Force Bird Strike Reports. The
SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212 13 APRIL 2009                                                                      3


     automated version of the form enables automatic forwarding to the 52 FW/SEF, 52 OG/OGV
     and 52 OG/CC organizational email boxes. This version of the form has been approved by the
     AF Form 853 OPR (5 Jan 2009, HAF AFSC/SEFW, LeBoeuf, Wilkens).
     2.3.4. Investigates BASH incidents to include collection, treatment, and shipment of bird
     remains to the Smithsonian Institute Feather Identification Lab for species identification. Due to
     Avian Influenza presence in Europe, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has
     prescribed pre-shipping treatment guidelines that must be followed.
     2.3.5. Reports on BASH issues and proposes recommendations and actions to the BHWG.
     2.3.6. Reports bird/animal-aircraft strike information and species identification on a quarterly
     basis to 52 CES Asset Management Natural Resources Management Element (52 CES/CEAN)
     for internal tracking of threatened and endangered species involvement.
     2.3.7. Disseminates BASH data to the flying squadron FSOs, BHWG, Combined Safety
     Council, Airfield Operations Board, and flying units during Quarterly Flight Safety Meetings.
     2.3.8. Ensures each flying squadron maintains a current bird activity map for SAB.
     2.3.9. Monitors bird activity and strike statistics and advises the BHWG chairman if additional
     meetings are necessary.
     2.3.10. Establishes a bird hazard awareness program in conjunction with squadron FSOs, to
     include films, posters and information on local bird hazard and reporting procedures.
     2.3.11. Prepares the agenda for the semi-annual BHWG meeting.
     2.3.12. Attends all pre-construction meetings and acceptance inspections affecting the airfield.
     2.3.13. Provides flying squadron FSOs with deployment BASH kits and instructions for use.
  2.4. 52 OG/CC:
     2.4.1. Through designated representatives, declares, disseminates and terminates bird-watch
     conditions on SAB and low fly areas.
     2.4.2. Issues guidance for pilots and the Supervisor of Flying (SOF) on procedures to be
     followed under specific bird-watch conditions.
     2.4.3. Based on the SOF’s recommendations, imposes flying restrictions to avoid known high
     levels of bird activity. Considers the following for implementation during periods of increased
     bird activity:
        2.4.3.1. Raise pattern altitude.
        2.4.3.2. Change pattern direction.
        2.4.3.3. Avoid takeoffs and landings at dawn or dusk +/- 1 hour.
        2.4.3.4. Limit or restrict formation approaches, takeoffs and/or landings.
        2.4.3.5. Depart pattern in trail: rejoin above 3000 feet above ground level.
        2.4.3.6. Re-schedule local training or transition elsewhere.
        2.4.3.7. Raise enroute altitude to low level or training areas.
        2.4.3.8. Limit time in the low fly areas to a minimum for training requirements.
4                                                         SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212 13 APRIL 2009


          2.4.3.9. Restrict low-level operations in training areas based on Birdtams or other available
          bird hazard data.
          2.4.3.10. Split formations during recovery.
          2.4.3.11. Discontinue formation instrument approaches.
          2.4.3.12. Make full stop landings only.
          2.4.3.13. Divert aircraft to alternate airfields.
    2.5. Fighter Squadron Commanders:
       2.5.1. Ensure deployment commander, if the squadron FSO is not deploying, appoints personnel
       to implement BASH avoidance measures and is equipped with a BASH deployment kit.
       2.5.2. Ensure pilots participate in the BASH reduction program by promptly reporting all bird
       strikes and hazardous conditions IAW AFI 91-204 and this instruction.
       2.5.3. Ensure current bird activity data is readily available for briefing aircrews, including
       current BIRDTAMS.
       2.5.4. Ensure the squadron FSO is fully aware of BASH procedures and attends all BHWG
       meetings.
    2.6. 52d Operations Support Squadron (52 OSS):
       2.6.1. 52 OSS, Airfield Management (52 OSS/OSAM):
          2.6.1.1. Investigates reports of bird concentrations on or near the airfield.
          2.6.1.2. Monitors environmental and bird nesting area control measures.
          2.6.1.3. Monitors bird populations, grass height, drainage ditches, etc., and reports problems
          to 52 FW/SEF and 52 CES personnel.
          2.6.1.4. Maintains immediate reaction capability to disperse birds and allow downgrade of a
          Bird Watch Condition (BWC) of SEVERE or MODERATE.
          2.6.1.5. Posts the current bird-watch condition on the airfield status board and disseminates
          the information to the Tower, Ground Control Approach (GCA), Command Post (52
          FW/CP), fighter squadrons, Air Mobility Command Center (AMCC), and 52 FW/SEF.
          2.6.1.6. In the absence of a SOF, either the tower watch supervisor or Airfield Management
          personnel may determine and upgrade the bird-watch condition. In order to downgrade the
          bird-watch condition, the tower watch supervisor and Airfield Management personnel must
          concur with the downgrade recommendation.
          2.6.1.7. Reports observed bird activity to the SOF (if present) and the 52 FW/CP after daily
          flying is completed.
          2.6.1.8. Removes dead birds/animals from runway/taxiway areas and contacts 52 FW/SEF
          and 52 CES/CEAN for remains identification and disposal.
          2.6.1.9. Requests non-Air Mobility Command transient aircrew submit the non-automated
          AF Form 853, for the purpose of tracking bird activity. Non-AMC transient crews are not
          mandated to fill out the form and therefore may refuse.
          2.6.1.10. Coordinates with Reed-Joseph International for any maintenance required for Scare
          Wars cannon system.
SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212 13 APRIL 2009                                                                      5


     2.6.2. 52 OSS, Tower (52 OSS/OSAT):
         2.6.2.1. Issues advisory information on bird activity over the Automated Terminal
         Information System (ATIS) broadcasts.
         2.6.2.2. Establishes priority for runway access to 52 OSS/OSAM during bird-watch
         conditions SEVERE or MODERATE for placement and use of bird scare devices.
         2.6.2.3. Air Traffic Control agencies advise airborne aircraft of flight restrictions imposed as
         a result of bird activity.
         2.6.2.4. In the absence of a SOF, either the tower watch supervisor or Airfield Management
         personnel may determine and upgrade the bird-watch condition. In order to downgrade the
         bird-watch condition, the tower watch supervisor and Airfield Management personnel must
         concur with the downgrade recommendation.
         2.6.2.5. Determines with SOF the need for employment of bird cannons or other modes of
         bird dispersion. If there is no SOF in the tower, the tower watch supervisor will solely make
         the determination.
         2.6.2.6. 52 OSS, Ground Control Approach (52 OSS/OSAR) observing evidence of large
         flocks of birds on radar which are confirmed by an airborne aircraft, will forward this
         information to the SOF or 52 OSS/OSAM personnel for appropriate dissemination.
  2.7. SOF, as the designated representative of the 52 OG/CC:
     2.7.1. Declares BWCs and makes recommendations to the 52 OG/CC on flying restrictions
     based on criteria in paragraph 4 of this instruction.
     2.7.2. Evaluates the hazard of an existing BWC and coordinates flying restrictions with the 52
     OG/CC as required.
     2.7.3. Notifies the 52 OSS/OSAM, the 52 OG/CC, and the 52 FW/CP when the airfield is under
     BWC SEVERE or MODERATE. The 52 FW/CP will contact 52 FW/SEF, Maintenance
     Operations Control Center (MOCC), AMCC, and the fighter squadrons.
     2.7.4. Downgrades existing bird-watch conditions commensurate with updated information.
     2.7.5. Determines with the tower watch supervisor all requests for employment of bird cannons
     or other modes of bird dispersion.
  2.8. 726 AMS:
     2.8.1. SAB is in a unique situation in which its airfield hosts not only three fighter squadrons but
     has also absorbed the transient cargo aircraft mission of the former Rhein-Main AB. To support
     this mission, the 726 AMS has become a tenant unit. Although the missions of host and tenant
     greatly differ, they rely on the same airfield and this mutual reliance requires a strong partnership
     to combat BASH issues and to implement an effective BASH plan.
     2.8.2. 726 AMS Safety Office (726 AMS/SE):
         2.8.2.1. Initiates AFSAS BASH reports, ships remains, and notifies owning organizations of
         BASH-affected transient aircraft.
         2.8.2.2. Reports BASH events to 52 FW/SEF that occur or are suspected to have occurred
         within 30 miles of the airfield. This data is significant in maintaining an accurate picture of
         local BASH activity.
 6                                                       SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212 13 APRIL 2009


     2.9. 52 CES:
        2.9.1. 52 CES, Heavy Repair Manager (52 CES/CEOH):
           2.9.1.1. Maintains airfield grass height between 7 and 14 inches (18 and 36 centimeters) and
           takes measures to prevent growth of weeds on airfield pavements. Airfield is defined as the
           controlled movement area on SAB.
        2.9.2. 52 CES, Entomology (52 CES/CEOIE)
           2.9.2.1. Manages a contracted falconry support service for clearing and chasing away resting
           and breeding bird species along the runway area.
           2.9.2.2. Supports a host nation-approved hunting program that provides for emergency
           depredation in the proximity of the active runway.
           2.9.2.3. Ensures base perimeter fence inhibits wildlife (fox, deer, wild boar, raccoons, cats,
           etc.) through inspections focused on openings underneath the fence line.
           2.9.2.4. Disseminates quarterly reports to 52 FW/SEF and 52 CES/CEAN comprising of the
           dates, species, number and the methods of birds and other animals killed at SAB by hunting
           and falconry services.
        2.9.3. 52 CES/CEAN:
           2.9.3.1. Monitors and surveys the base for potential nesting areas. Applies for appropriate
           permits to actively control nest-building sites and to employ bird harassment devices.
           2.9.3.2. Implements environmental control initiatives to reduce the attractiveness of the
           airfield to birds.
           2.9.3.3. Briefs BASH environmental issues at the Wing Environmental, Safety, and
           Occupational Health Council meetings and advises Headquarters United States Air Forces
           Europe Asset Management Natural Resources Branch when applicable.
           2.9.3.4. Oversees the Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan for elimination of bird
           breeding habitat improvements on the grass land along the runway areas.
     2.10. 52d Maintenance Group (52 MXG):
        2.10.1. Issue specific guidance to maintenance personnel for reporting all bird strikes to the
        MOCC and 52 FW/SEF.
        2.10.2. Issue procedures for the preservation of non-fleshy bird remains when discovered on
        aircraft. Procedures will incorporate personal protective measures as outlined by the
        International Air Transport Association, http://www.iata.org/NR/rdonlyres/303E6E26-D420-
        49A8-8110-D8F1EE5E9F0B/0/bird_strike_032006.pdf .
        2.10.3. Ensures Quality Assurance responds to reports of aircraft bird strikes.
3. Bird/Wildlife Hazard Working Group (BHWG)
     3.1. Function. Collects, compiles and reviews data on bird strikes IAW AFI 91-204. Identifies
     hazards and recommends changes in operational procedures to reduce these hazards. Prepares
     informational programs for aircrews and serves as a point of contact for off-base BASH issues.
     3.2. Authority. The BHWG is established IAW AFI 91-202 and AFMAN 91-212 and chaired by
     the 52 FW/CV. The BHWG submits all recommendations to the 52 FW/CC for approval.
SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212 13 APRIL 2009                                                                    7


   3.3. Composition. In addition to the chairman, BHWG membership will consist of representatives
   from 52 FW/SEF, 52 OG/OGV, Wing Foreign Object Damage Non-Commissioned Officer, 52
   CES/CEO, 52 CES/CEAN, 52 OSS/OSA, 726 AMS/SE, and the FSOs from each flying squadron.
   3.4. Meeting Schedule. The BHWG will, as a minimum, meet semi-annually or when requested by
   the chairman.
   3.5. Minutes. Meeting minutes will be accomplished by 52 FW/SEF and approved by the chairman.
   Once approved, the minutes will be disseminated to the BHWG membership, 52 OG/CC, and 52
   MXG/QA.
4. Bird Watch Conditions (BWC)
   4.1. The goal of BWC is to eliminate the loss of resources due to BASH mishaps through a system
   of temporary restrictions and dispersion efforts. This dynamic system calls for providing the correct
   amount of protection to resources without stagnating flying operations.
   4.2. Use the following terminology for rapid communication of bird activity and implement unit
   operational procedures.
      4.2.1. BWC SEVERE. Any number of birds on or immediately above the active runway or any
      location that represents an immediate hazard to safe flying operations. Pilots, supervisors and
      transient aircrews must thoroughly evaluate mission needs before operating in areas under
      condition SEVERE.
   4.2.2. BWC MODERATE. Any number of birds observed in locations which represent a probable
   hazard to safe flying operations. This condition requires increased vigilance by all agencies and
   extreme caution by aircrews.
      4.2.3. BWC LOW. Normal bird activity on and above the airfield with a low probability of
      hazard. BWC Low does not necessarily indicate an absence of birds but that bird activity is
      present but not a danger to aircraft.
      4.2.4. Bird Activity Phases I/II. In accordance with AFI 91-202, Phase I and II are periods of
      bird activity based on historical information for SAB. Phase I and II designations are published
      in 52 FW Flight Information Publications.
          4.2.4.1. BWC Low Phase II denotes heavy bird activity, normally associated with migratory
          season. This occurs at SAB from April-June and again during September-November. Phase
          II will be established by the 52 OG through the SOF during these periods. Aircrews are to
          remain vigilant during Phase II operations and coordinate with the SOF to adjust flying
          operations as required due to observed bird activity. Supervisors will receive current bird
          activity updates from the SOF before Aircrew step. SOFs will relay current applicable
          restrictions (if any) to Aircrew before takeoff. The observations and/or reporting may come
          from ground crew, aircrew, ATC, or SOF. Adjustments to flight operations may include, but
          are not limited to, cease of formation takeoffs or landings and limitations on multiple
          patterns.
          4.2.4.2. BWC Low Phase I will denote bird activity on and around the airfield representing a
          low potential for strikes. Note: BWC MODERATE and SEVERE should be in effect only
          while birds are physically present. Continuously monitor the bird threat so the BWC can be
          reduced to a lower level as soon as possible. When the birds depart the area, allow ample
          time (10-15 minutes) for bird dispersal prior to lowering BWC to the appropriate level.
 8                                                      SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212 13 APRIL 2009


        4.2.5. Table 1 is designed to be used as a ready reference to identify bird-watch conditions,
        BIRDTAM numbers and recommended action. It is to be used as a guide in determining what
        proactive measures are appropriate for the current bird activity level. In addition, the German
        BIRDTAM numbers/reports MAY also necessitate restrictions to USAF low altitude operations,
        but do NOT require specific action to be taken in Spangdahlem’s pattern.

Table 1. Bird Activity Identification and Recommended Action.
Bird Activity:      BIRDTAM         BIRD-WATCH                                  Recommended
                    No.             Directed When:                              Action:
SEVERE              6 thru 8        Any number of birds on or immediately       Discontinue flying
                                    above the active runway that represents     and/or divert.
                                    an immediate hazard to safe flying
                                    operations.


                                    Multiple large flocks of birds in the
                                    traffic pattern or on the infield grass.


                                    A flock of birds hovering on short final
                                    or continuously transiting short final.


                                             (SOF judgment prevails)
MODERATE            3 thru 5        A single large flock of birds or multiple   a. restricted low
                                    small flocks which are a factor to the      approaches or full stop
                                    traffic pattern, in the pattern or on the   landings only.
                                    infield grass.                              b. limit initial to 2-ship
                                                                                maximum.
                                                                                c. adjust overhead
                                    When bird dispersion measures (e.g.         pattern to avoid bird
                                    bird cannons) must be employed more         activity.
                                    than once during a 10 minute period.        d. single ship takeoffs
                                                                                and landings.
                                                                                e. change runway.
                                    Other concentrations of birds which         f. delay flight ops until
                                    create a probable hazard, but do not        birds are dispersed.
                                    warrant stopping flying operations.

                                             (SOF judgment prevails)
LOW                 0 thru 2         Scattered birds may be on the infield   Pireps/SOF advisories
                                     grass but are not a threat to aircraft.
Note: . The SOF has judgment authority to raise and lower the BWC and implement flying restrictions
regardless of the specific numbers of birds observed.

     4.3. Communications. Disseminate bird-watch conditions by the following means:
SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212 13 APRIL 2009                                                                    9


      4.3.1. During flight operations, include bird-watch conditions other than LOW at SAB, low
      flying areas/training areas, etc. in the ATIS information. When the SOF declares bird-watch
      condition MODERATE or SEVERE, notify tower personnel, 52 FW/CP, flying squadrons and
      52 OG/CC. The 52 FW/CP will contact 52 FW/SEF, Maintenance Operations Control Center
      (MOCC), AMCC, and the fighter squadrons. 52 OSS/OSAM personnel will post the bird-watch
      condition in the flight planning room for transient aircrews and notify changes in conditions.
      Squadron operations personnel will post the bird-watch condition on their Notice to Airmen
      (NOTAM) board.
      4.3.2. The primary means of transmitting bird-watch conditions will be via ATIS. However,
      under bird-watch condition SEVERE (or MODERATE when restrictions have been imposed)
      SAB air traffic control agencies, in coordination with the SOF, will ensure pilots are advised of
      the condition and are provided the option to delay, divert or continue the proposed operation into
      hazardous areas.
5. 52 FW Pilot Responsibilities and Procedures.
   5.1. Pilots will report all known or suspected bird strikes to their squadron FSOs and ensure an
   automated AF Form 853 is annotated. Pilots may also be asked to fill out the AF Form 853 for a
   strike unknown to them in order for investigators to have a detailed record of the flight.
   5.2. Pilots observing or encountering hazardous bird activity should contact the SOF, ATC, nearest
   military base or range control officer and request the observed bird activity be passed on to the SOF
   or AM Ops. The following information should be included:
      5.2.1. Call sign.
      5.2.2. Location.
      5.2.3. Altitude.
      5.2.4. Time of sighting.
      5.2.5. Type of bird (if known).
      5.2.6. Approximate number of birds.
      5.2.7. Behavior of birds (soaring, flying to or from a location, etc.).
   5.3. Additional instructions to pilots are provided below based upon the coded bird-watch condition
   and location.
      5.3.1. Condition SEVERE.
          5.3.1.1. Traffic Pattern. Coordinate with the SOF to determine whether aircraft will be
          diverting or holding until the birds are dispersed. Takeoffs are prohibited.
          5.3.1.2. Ranges/Training Areas. A specific area and altitude will be identified. That area
          will be avoided by all flights.
          5.3.1.3. Low-level Areas. Note and avoid specific routes or segments and altitudes.
      5.3.2. Condition MODERATE.
          5.3.2.1. Traffic Pattern. Only patterns authorized will be full stop landings and restricted
          low approaches. Takeoffs will be accomplished as single ships. Limit formations to 2-ship
          when flying up initial. Pilots will be particularly cognizant of bird activity when on final
          approach and consider initiating an immediate go-around if a bird strike appears imminent.
 10                                                       SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212 13 APRIL 2009


         5.3.3. Ranges/Training Areas. Make changes in flight profile or altitudes to avoid bird hazards.
         5.3.4. Low-level Areas. Make amendments to flight altitude to minimize bird hazards. Limit
         close formation to a minimum for mission and training requirements.
      5.4. Condition LOW. (All locations) Continue with normal operating procedures.
6. Hazards Specific to SAB and Appropriate Countermeasures.
      6.1. The following is a summary of bird strike hazards around SAB and recommendations for
      reducing each hazard. A brief description of each species and how it may be controlled or avoided is
      included. Each control measure will require action by one or more tasked organizations as described
      in the basic plan. It is important to know which species is present before control techniques can be
      applied effectively. An appropriate field guide should be used to aid in bird identification.
         6.1.1. Waterfowl (ducks, geese, swans). Migrating waterfowl are particularly dangerous to
         flight safety due to their numbers, size and higher flight altitude. Large flocks of waterfowl
         travel along traditional airways to their breeding and wintering grounds during spring and fall.
         Huge flocks may stop along the route awaiting favorable weather conditions. Migrating birds
         are most active from sunset through midnight, with numbers decreasing in the early morning
         hours. Avoiding night flying is the safest approach. Wintering concentration areas should be
         avoided.
         6.1.2. Raptors (German buzzards (hawks), falcons, kites, eagles and vultures). These birds can
         be particularly hazardous to aircraft because of their size and widespread distribution of habitats
         near the base and low-level flying areas. Raptors, particularly vultures, use thermals to their
         advantage to search for prey. These birds become active during mid-morning and remain aloft
         until late afternoon. Avoid areas with thermal generating terrain such as ridgelines, rolling hills
         and bodies of water.
         6.1.3. Cranes. These large birds are most hazardous during migrating periods, particularly in the
         fall when a large number of birds may be concentrated in a small area.
         6.1.4. Pigeons and doves. These birds are seedeaters and are attracted to seed producing weeds,
         grasses and shrubs. Open areas or bare spots are attractive as resting or feeding sites.
         6.1.5. Crows and ravens. These omnivorous birds are common in open areas. They may occur
         in large flocks, particularly at sunset as they return to their roost site.
         6.1.6. Blackbirds, grackles, cowbirds, starlings, lapwings and magpies. These birds can be
         particularly hazardous because they frequently occur in huge flocks. Blackbirds and starlings are
         attracted to flat, open areas to feed, rest or stage.
         6.1.7. While concern is mostly centered on birds, several mammalian species also pose a threat
         to flight operations.
             6.1.7.1. Rabbits and hare. Can cause damage to aircraft on take-off and landing rolls; these
             animals also attract raptors and fox.
             6.1.7.2. Rodents. Several species of rodents live on SAB and are attractants of raptors and
             fox.
             6.1.7.3. Fox. Fox entering the airfield pose a significant hazard as they frequently cross the
             runway at night in search of food.
SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212 13 APRIL 2009                                                                        11


   6.2. Countermeasures. There must be a concerted effort between several agencies and a pro-active
   approach to bird/wildlife control in order to successfully execute an effective BASH plan.
   Countermeasures without prior coordination can threaten air traffic as birds will take flight, therefore
   it is imperative that countermeasures be employed only with the consent of the 52 OSS/OSAT, the
   SOF, or 52 OSS/OSAM.
      6.2.1. Airfield attractiveness. The first step in controlling airfield wildlife is to make the airfield
      as inhospitable as possible. This can effectively be done by maintaining the prescribed grass
      height, removal of dead vegetation, monitoring and leveling of low lying areas, and proper
      drainage. In addition, frequent inspections of the fence line for means of entry by fox or other
      larger animals will aid in preventing animals on the airfield.
      6.2.2. Fox urine pellets. The scent of fox urine is proven to be an effective means of driving
      away prey such as rabbits, hare and several rodent species. Because many predatory birds hunt
      the same prey as fox, placing pellets on the airfield can have a positive impact towards
      alleviating a food source of both fox and larger birds. When the population of prey warrants, fox
      pellets should be utilized.
      6.2.3. Bird Cannons with bioacoustics. The Scare Wars system in use by the 52 FW is a series
      of state of the art bird cannons, some equipped with bioacoustics. The remote-enabled system is
      a proven, convenient and expedient means of dispersing birds. The system is most useful when
      unpredictable, as birds can be conditioned to accept routine scheduled employment. The
      cannons are portable and should be moved to accommodate new areas of congregation and
      nesting. Those activating the cannons should also be aware of what mode of the system is most
      effective against the targeted species (e.g. cannon blast, distress cry generator, or a combination).
      6.2.4. Falconry. Contracted falconry has proven to be an effective deterrent to controlling the
      bird and rabbit/hare population on base and remains an integral part of BASH plan. The OPR for
      Falconry services is 52 CES/CEOIE.
      6.2.5. Pyrotechnics, bangers, screamers. These bird dispersion techniques are advantageous in
      their portability but due to explosive hazards must be maintained IAW AFMAN 91-201,
      Explosive Safety Standards. In addition, documented annual training must be accomplished.
      6.2.6. Paintball guns. Paintball guns may be used in lieu of or in addition to other handheld
      dispersion devices but users must have documented annual training. The OPR is 52
      OSS/OSAM.
      6.2.7. Depredation. Local law forbids deliberate killing of birds on SAB without permission
      from the German Forest Authority (United States Fish and Wildlife equivalent). Permission is
      reviewed and renewed as explained in paragraph 2.9.2.2. Depredation is performed only by an
      appointed licensed local national hunter and only in cases of emergencies or when alternative
      means prove ineffective.
7. Adopted Form. AF Form 853, Air Force Bird Strike Reports (automated and non-automated as per
owning organization’s approval)




                                             LEE T. WIGHT, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
 12                                                  SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212 13 APRIL 2009


                                            Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 1 August 1998
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, and USAFESUP, 25 November 2008
AFPAM 91-212, Bird/wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Management Techniques, 1 February
2004
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs, 28 September 1993
UFC 3-260-1, Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFSAS—Air Force Safety Automated System
AMCC—Air Mobility Control Center
AMS—Air Mobility Squadron
ATC—Air Traffic Control
ATIS—Automatic Terminal Information Service
BASH—Bird/wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard
BHWG—Bird Hazard Working Group
BIRDTAM—Bird Notice to Airman
BWC—Bird Watch Condition
CC—Commander
CEAN—Asset Management Natural Resources Management Element
CES—Civil Engineer Squadron
CP—Command Post
CV—Vice Commander
FSO—Flight Safety Officer
FW—Fighter Wing
IAW—In Accordance With
MOCC—Maintenance Operations Control Center
MXG—Maintenance Group
OG—Operations Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
SPANGDAHLEMABI91-212 13 APRIL 2009   13


OSAM—Airfield Management
OSS—Operations Support Squadron
QA—Quality Assurance
SEF—Flight Safety
SOF—Supervisor of Flying
