BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       SPANGDAHLEM AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 48-106
SPANGDAHLEM AB (USAFE)
                                                                                              18 MAY 2009
                                                                              Certified Current 25 May 2011
                                                                                         Aerospace Medicine

                                                           NON-US CITIZEN CIVILIAN EMPLOYEE
                                                             OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH PROGRAM


                COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:            Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                          publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:            There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 52 AMDS/SGPM                                        Certified by: 52 AMDS/SGP (LtCol Krautheim)
Supersedes: SPANGDAHLEMABI48-106,                                                           Pages: 4
            15 July 1999


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program,
United States Army, Europe (USAREUR) Standard 40-11, Occupational Health Services Contract, as
well as the Host Nation Laws (Arbeitsmedizinische Vorsorge). This instruction only applies to workers
in industrial shops who are exposed to potential workplace hazards. It explains the agreement between
the Air Force and the German Occupational Health Clinic. It establishes responsibilities and guidance
for conducting the Non-US Citizen Civilian Employee Occupational Health Program, and applies to all
organizations involved in ensuring the proper medical exams for industrial work centers at Spangdahlem
Air Base, Bitburg annex or the geographically separated units where exposure to chemical or physical
hazards is possible. It provides a comprehensive approach to the prevention and control of occupational
illnesses and ensures the standardization of procedures for any required/recommended occupational
medical surveillance. The success of the program depends on the cooperation of the Civilian Personnel
Office (CPO), 52d Aerospace Medicine Squadron, Public Health Flight (52 AMDS/SGPM), Contracted
Occupational Health Clinic (Berufsgenossenschaftlicher Arbeitsmedizinischer Dienst/BAD) in Trier,
affected squadrons, supervisors, and workers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363_USAFESUP, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm .
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847s
from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Change of responsibilities: Instead of CPO, Public Health (PH) will forward necessary information and
documents to CPO and Works Council. Introduces USAFE Base Form 106, Health Examination Data
Sheet for Newcomers – Non-US. USAFE Base Form 106 is being used to collect personal data before
employee gets the initial occupational health examination.
2                                                          SPANGDAHLEMABI48-106 18 May 2009


1. General: All offices with primary responsibilities listed below are required to develop procedures
for ensuring requirements are met. Close coordination between offices is necessary in order to avoid
problems with scheduling, performing visits, and determining appropriate examinations and restrictions.
2. Responsibilities:
    2.1. PH:
       2.1.1. Organizes and documents the program.
       2.1.2. Oversees the mass exam schedule (i.e., which shop should be scheduled during which
       month).
       2.1.3. Presents pertinent documents to BAD and ensures all information is correct.
       2.1.4. Forwards fitness for duty status from BAD to employee and their supervisor.
       2.1.5. Ensures CPO and Works Council receives all necessary information and documents (for
       example: list of medical hazardous work areas, fitness for duty status if they would reflect on the
       employee’s work field/capability).
    2.2. CPO:
       2.2.1. Sends monthly updated roster of newcomers, overhires, retirees and other terminations to
       PH.
       2.2.2. Provides necessary information as well as USAFE Base Form 106, and the information
       sheet on occupational employment and health protection to new personnel and PH.
       2.2.3. Makes certain that pre-placement exams are completed before entering employment.
       2.2.4. Assists, suggests and advises the works council of personnel changes due to the results of
       the exams. The Works Council is a forum that serves the interest of the civilian employees.
    2.3. Supervisors:
       2.3.1. Act as point of contact for the individual employee and are responsible for exam
       attendance.
       2.3.2. Arrange and coordinate with Public Health or BAD for the appointments (during duty
       hours, if possible).
       2.3.3. Assist and supports the Non-US Citizen Civilian Employee Occupational Health Program
       and keeps employees informed of the program.
       2.3.4. Help employees with necessary forms and documentation (filling out HEDS).
       2.3.5. Report any changes on the HEDS to PH.
       2.3.6. Inform the Works Council of any health problems that might jeopardize the continuous
       work capability of the employee, so the Works Council may recommend further actions.
       2.3.7. Arrange transportation to the location of the exams. If necessary, the employee will be
       reimbursed for using privately owned transportation to the BAD. (If the employee attends an
       exam on off duty hours, he/she will be time compensated).
    2.4. Established procedures for BAD:
       2.4.1. Accomplishes exams as scheduled.
       2.4.2. Sends results of the exam to PH within 10 working days.
SPANGDAHLEMABI48-106 18 May 2009                                                                3


      2.4.3. Sends the bills as follows: The original to the Center for Health Promotion and
      Preventive Medicine Europe contracting and the copy to PH.
   2.5. The Works Council will be involved in all matters/actions which require their attention in
   accordance with the Personnel Representation Law.
3. Prescribed and Adopted Forms
  3.1. Prescribed Form: USAFE Base Form 106, Health Examination Data Sheet for Newcomers –
      Non-US.
  3.2. Adopted Form: AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                         LEE T. WIGHT, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
4                                                   SPANGDAHLEMABI48-106 18 May 2009


                                        Attachment 1
    GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, and USAFESUP, 25 November 2008
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, 3 October 2005
USAREUR Standard 40-11, Occupational Health Services Contract, 13 August 2001

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
CPO— Civilian Personnel Office
PH— Public Health
BAD—Berufsgenossenschaftlicher Arbeitsmedizinischer Dienst (Contracted Occupational Health
Clinic)
AMDS/SGPM— Aerospace Medicine Squadron, Public Health Flight
