BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         SPANGDAHLEM AIR BASE
SPANGDAHLEM AB (USAFE)                                                INSTRUCTION 24-302

                                                                               11 MARCH 2014

                                                                          Materiel Management

                                                         VEHICLE ACCIDENT AND ABUSE
                                                                           PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 52 LRS/LGRV                                                       Certified by: 52 LRS/CC
                                                                  (Lt Col Phillip L. Noltemeyer)
Supersedes:   SPANGDAHLEMABI23-302,                                                    Pages: 10
              15 January 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-3, Management, Operatioin
and use of Transportation Vehicles, and outlines definitions, responsibilities and procedures for
an effective vehicle accident and abuse program at Spangdahlem Air Base (AB) in accordance
with (IAW) Air Force Instruction (AFI) 24-302, Vehicle Management. Visibility and emphasis is
placed at the unit level and under the direct control of the unit commander to foster better
operator care and condition of Spangdahlem’s vehicle fleet. This instruction is applicable to all
persons operating any Government Owned Vehicles/Equipment (GOV/E) that are assigned to
Spangdahlem Air Base (AB) and its Geographically Separated Units (GSU), which are loaded in
the On-Line Vehicle Interactive Management System (OLVIMS) or in the Logistics Integrated
Management-Enterprise View (LIMS-EV) Vehicle View. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363_USAFESUP, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
 2                                             SPANGDAHLEMABI23-302 11 MARCH 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document updates the procedures for accidents and abuses if reimbursable costs are under
$150.00, reporting instructions for accidents and abuses to account for weekends and holidays,
road conditions driving safety, and updated the accident notification and transfer of funds letters.
1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. In accordance with AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, the owning organization or the
     organization responsible for damage to vehicles and equipment will reimburse the 52d
     Logistics Readiness Squadron Vehicle Management Flight (52 LRS/LGRV) for all operation
     & maintenance (O&M) funds expended to repair accident and abuse-related damage, to
     include contract maintenance costs. Under certain circumstances, the using organization may
     not be the assigned organization (i.e., U-Drive-It vehicle or a loaned vehicle from another
     organization). Reimbursement will be made regardless of determination of pecuniary
     liability or reimbursement made by the individual to the government. Reimbursement is to
     be accomplished through a transfer of funds from the using organization’s operation and
     maintenance (O&M) account to 52 LRS/LGRV using the memorandum in Attachment 5.
     1.2. 52 LRS/LGRV will:
        1.2.1. Thoroughly inspect the vehicle to determine if damage is caused by accident or
        abuse.
        1.2.2. Provide accident or abuse notification letter (Attachment 3) via e-mail to include
        photos to the squadron commander, vehicle control officer (VCO) or vehicle control
        noncommissioned officer (VCNCO) of the assigned organization with a repair estimate
        and also provide information only copies to the 52d Fighter Wing Reports of Survey
        Program Manager and the 52d Fighter Wing Ground Safety office. NOTE: If
        reimbursable costs are under $150.00 then 52 LRS/LGRV has the option to send an
        information only Memorandum to the using organization.
        1.2.3. Commence repairs NLT 5 calendar days after notification unless a delay is
        requested in writing by the using organization.
        1.2.4. Repair vehicle and provide AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value
        Statement to the reimbursing organization.
        1.2.5. Maintain accident or abuse repair information for a 12-month period.
        1.2.6. Prepare a “transfer of funds” letter (see Attachment 5) for coordination with the
        using/responsible organization’s resource advisor and Accounting and Finance for
        reimbursement monthly.
     1.3. Assigned and using organizations will:
        1.3.1. Ensure a viable vehicle accident prevention program is part of the unit’s safety
        program (see Attachment 4 of this instruction).
        1.3.2. Report all vehicle damage to 52 LRS/LGRV within 24 hours or if during a
        weekend or holiday notify the next available duty day.
        1.3.3. Report U-Drive-It or loaned vehicle damages to 52d Logistics Readiness Squadron
        Vehicle Operations.
SPANGDAHLEMABI23-302 11 MARCH 2014                                                               3


     1.3.4. Initiate Report of Survey as required in accordance with AFMAN 23-220, Reports
     of Survey of Air Force Property
  1.4. The VCO or VCNCO will ensure that copies of accident reports as well as any
  photographs are submitted to the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) not later than 1 duty day for all
  accidents involving government-owned vehicles (GOV) and privately-owned vehicles
  (POV). The SJA will provide guidance to the investigating officer(s) and commander(s), and
  conduct legal reviews of formal reports.
  1.5. The initial responsibility to identify and report accidents rests with the vehicle operator.
  The damage must be reported immediately to the 52d Security Forces Squadron prior to
  moving the vehicle.
  1.6. 52d Mission Support Group Commander is the final deciding authority to resolve all
  conflicts concerning this program.




                                            DAVID J. JULAZADEH, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 4                                            SPANGDAHLEMABI23-302 11 MARCH 2014


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 June 2012
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey of Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Repairable Value Statement

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
IAW—In Accordance With
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
O&M—Operation and Maintenance
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Commissioned Officer

Terms
Fair Wear and Tear—The normal expected deterioration of a vehicle or equipment based on its
age, usage and life expectancy.
Motor Vehicle Accident—Any collision, impact, or abrasion against a fixed or moving object
with a military motor vehicle, that causes damage, whether immediately noticeable or not.
Vehicle Abuse—An act or omission that has caused, or may cause, damage that cannot be
attributed to fair wear and tear under normal use, accident or incidents. Vehicle abuse may result
in early failure of components or immediately detectable damage. Some examples of vehicle
abuse are listed in Attachment 2 of this instruction.
Vehicle Incident—Repairs required as a result of damages beyond the control of an individual,
which have resulted from natural causes. Such repairs will not be categorized as an accident or
abuse. Letters of explanation from individual will accompany vehicles turned in to explain any
incident damage. Examples of incidents are: (1) A rock thrown through the windshield by the tire
of a vehicle being followed, (2) Wind-carried object striking a vehicle or (3) Hail or other
inclement weather damage.
SPANGDAHLEMABI23-302 11 MARCH 2014                                                          5


U—Drive-It—Vehicle available to support organizations that do not have assigned vehicles and
to augment units with assigned vehicles in meeting infrequent peak requirements for short-term
use. Support is normally limited to 72 hours.
 6                                              SPANGDAHLEMABI23-302 11 MARCH 2014


                                           Attachment 2
                              EXAMPLES OF VEHICLE ABUSE

A2.1. Vehicle abuse action may be initiated for vehicle or equipment damage or failure
resulting from but not limited to:
     A2.1.1. Improper cargo distribution or failure to secure loads properly in cargo areas of
     vehicle or not following established loading or unloading procedures.
     A2.1.2. Using a vehicle for other than its intended or designed purpose (i.e., 6K F/L used to
     transport 10,000 pounds).
     A2.1.3. Tampering with governors, distributors or pollution-control devices.
     A2.1.4. Operating vehicles with insufficient oil, coolant or lubricants; failure to check fluid
     levels according to established requirements or failure to monitor dashboard instrumentation.
     A2.1.5. Over-filling the engine crankcase, transmission or hydraulic reservoirs or servicing
     the vehicle fuel tank or hydraulic reservoir with incorrect fuel or oils.
     A2.1.6. Failure to protect the painted surface(s) from corrosion and/or oxidation or failure to
     clean, wax or maintain vehicle’s interior or exterior to meet corrosion control and appearance
     requirements.
     A2.1.7. Operating a vehicle with brakes applied or dragging parking brakes.
     A2.1.8. Unauthorized wiring, marking or modification/add-on of a vehicle (modifications or
     add-ons must be processed in writing through the VCO or VCNCO and approved through
     Vehicle Management).
     A2.1.9. Tire wear beyond minimum acceptable safe tread depth. Tire wear that exposes the
     cord, renders tires unsuitable to be recapped or re-grooved, and is unsafe or operating a
     vehicle with broken tire chains or improperly inflated tires.
     A2.1.10. Intentional destruction or disfigurement of vehicle.
     A2.1.11. Operating a vehicle or equipment that conflicts with published safety Department
     of Defense (DoD) publications, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH),
     Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), Air Force Instruction (AFI), Air Force Manual
     (AFMAN), Technical Order (T.O.) or German laws concerning vehicle safety.
     A2.1.12. Allowing water to accumulate in the vehicle interior.
     A2.1.13. Not restraining doors when opening or closing in excessive wind.
     A2.1.14. Failure to report any malfunctions, defects or damages on a vehicle to 52
     LRS/LGRV within 24 hours. Any reporting delays to support mission requirements must be
     coordinated with 52 LRS/LGRV.
     A2.1.15. Failure to bring vehicles or equipment to 52 LRS/LGRV for scheduled
     maintenance before an overdue condition exists. Prior to becoming overdue coordination to
     reschedule must occur with 52 LRS/LGRV.
     A2.1.16. Failure to accomplish proper operator care and maintenance stated in AFI 24-302.
SPANGDAHLEMABI23-302 11 MARCH 2014                                                                   7


                                          Attachment 3
               SAMPLE ACCIDENT OR ABUSE NOTIFICATION LETTER


MEMORANDUM FOR SQUADRON/CC
               SQUADRON VCO/VCNCO

FROM: 52 LRS/LGRV

SUBJECT: Vehicle Damage Notification, Case Number FY14/001

1. According to our records, USAF vehicle, 14B12345 is assigned to your organization and was
turned in for maintenance on (date reported to maintenance). After a careful inspection of the
vehicle we have discovered that the damage, (descriptive details of damage) is the result of an
accident/abuse. The estimated cost for repairs is $x,xxx.xx. Vehicle repairs will begin 5 calendar
days from the date of this letter unless released for repairs earlier by you.

2. If you have any questions or need additional details, please do not hesitate to contact Vehicle
Management and Analysis at DSN 452-7444.




                                                       JOHN A. DOE, XXxx, USAF
                                                       Vehicle Fleet Manager

Attachment:
Photo(s)

cc:
52 LRS/CC
52 FW/JA
52 FW/SE
 8                                             SPANGDAHLEMABI23-302 11 MARCH 2014


                                          Attachment 4
                                SAFE DRIVING GUIDELINES

A4.1. The goal of a vehicle accident prevention program is to reduce the number and severity of
vehicle accidents. All units should ensure a viable vehicle accident prevention program is part of
the unit’s safety program. One way to accomplish this is by incorporating driver safety into your
weekly safety briefings. The following are examples of topics to be included in these briefings:
A4.2. Regular Vehicle Inspections (at least monthly, or more frequently as needed).
     A4.2.1. Tires. Check tire pressure and visually check for damage/abnormalities.
     A4.2.2. Lights. Visually check for proper operation.
     A4.2.3. Leaks. Visually check for fuel/brake/oil/coolant leaks.
     A4.2.4. Engine oil and coolant. Visually check levels.
     A4.2.5. Battery. Visually check cleanliness, security of hold-down.
     A4.2.6. Drive belts. Visually check for fraying or cracking.
     A4.2.7. Safety devices. Functionally check operation of seat belts, headrests and warning
     lights.
     A4.2.8. Instrument, horn and windshield wipers. Functionally check for operation.
     A4.2.9. Brakes and steering. Functionally check responsiveness and effectiveness.
     A4.2.10. Note any unusual occurrences such as noise, odor and erratic instruments/
     operation.
A4.3. Safe Driving.
     A4.3.1. Use the 2-second rule during normal driving conditions and more during inclement
     weather.
     A4.3.2. Never over-drive the distance you can see lit by your headlights.
     A4.3.3. Signal your intentions at least 100 feet ahead of an intersection. Not signaling your
     intentions well in advance causes other drivers to make last minute decisions.
     A4.3.4. Exercise caution anytime that you are backing a vehicle; use spotters when you
     cannot see.
     A4.3.5. Use mirrors to monitor your surroundings; use spotters when you cannot see.
     A4.3.6. Ensure you have adequate clearance around vehicles, especially when operating
     over-sized vehicles or towing equipment; use spotters when you cannot see.
A4.4. Expecting the Unexpected.
     A4.4.1. Be constantly aware of surroundings and watch for other vehicles.
     A4.4.2. Be attentive to situations that may come up while driving.
     A4.4.3. Always drive defensively and expect other drivers to do something unexpected.
SPANGDAHLEMABI23-302 11 MARCH 2014                                                            9


   A4.4.4. Be extra cautious when approaching major roadways, intersections and areas where
   vehicles are entering and exiting the roadway. High traffic areas pose a greater risk to all
   drivers.
   A4.4.5. Don’t become complacent in familiar areas. Most accidents happen within 50 miles
   of your home; knowing the area is not an excuse for not paying attention to your
   surroundings.
A4.5. Always monitor and adjust your driving to reflect current weather and road
conditions.
   A4.5.1. Road surfaces can have damaged areas; be prepared for them.
   A4.5.2. Use extra time to drive safely during inclement weather conditions and when
   roadways are damaged or under construction.
A4.6. Rules of the Road.
   A4.6.1. Pay attention to traffic signs and obey them.
   A4.6.2. Follow posted speed limits.
   A4.6.3. Follow directional arrows in parking lots.
A4.7. Use of Seat Belts.
   A4.7.1. Seat belt use is MANDATORY for all drivers and passengers.
A4.8. Following these tips will greatly reduce the likelihood of being involved in an accident.
Also remember that fatigued drivers are more likely to be involved in an accident. Get the rest
that you need. Driving tired has the same effect as driving under the influence of alcohol; your
reaction times increase making it more difficult to cope with incidents on the road.
 10                                        SPANGDAHLEMABI23-302 11 MARCH 2014


                                      Attachment 5
                       SAMPLE TRANSFER OF FUNDS LETTER


MEMORANDUM FOR 52 CPTS/FMA

FROM: 52 LRS/LGLOR

SUBJECT: Transfer of Funds

1. Request the transfer of funds in the amount of _______________ from (using organization)
RC/CC, to (52 LRS/LGRV) RC/CC _____________ to reimburse repairs on Vehicle registration
number XXX, accident / abuse case number ______.



                                                   __________________
                                                   SIGNATURE BLOCK
                                                   Resource Advisor
