BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           SPANGDAHLEM AIR BASE
SPANGDAHLEM AB (USAFE)                                                  INSTRUCTION 36-501

                                                                                    22 JUNE 2010

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                                    CIVILIAN MOBILIZATION



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 52 FSS/FSMC                                                          Certified by: 52 FSS/CC
Supersedes: SPANGDAHLEMABI36-                                            (Major Patrick M. Miller)
            501, 22 February 1999                                                          Pages: 9


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-5, Civilian Personnel
Resource Management and AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force. It establishes
the responsibilities of the civilian personnel office (CPO), commanders, supervisors, and
employees. It is designed to ensure that efficient staffing support is available in the event of war
or other national emergencies as declared by Congress or by the President and to ensure that
action taken in response to mobilization or wartime situations are appropriate and carried out
rapidly and efficiently. This instruction applies to all organizations serviced by the CPO,
including geographically separated units (GSUs) and/or tenant activities. It is applicable to
United States (US) appropriated fund employee positions. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363_USAFESUP, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm       Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates the designated Emergency Essential (EE) positions, based on the first-level
supervisor’s inputs. Procedures for civilian mobilization of non-emergency essential positions
were also added. Format has been corrected to comply with Air Force regulations.
 2                                                 SPANGDAHLEMABI36-501 22 JUNE 2010



1. Policies.
     1.1. The top priority of the CPO during mobilization will be to fill civilian vacancies on the
     wartime authorization document, including vacancies created by the call-up of military
     reservists, military retirees, and draft eligibles.
     1.2. Personnel actions before attack or declaration of a national emergency will be taken
     under peacetime instructions.
     1.3. In some circumstances during surges in mobilization recruitment, it may be in the best
     interest of the installation to authorize the CPO or designated recruiters to make on-the-spot
     selections for appointment. The wing commander will grant this authority.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. The Wing commander shall:
        2.1.1. Ensure that civilian mobilization staffing plan is adequate to support the wartime
        mission of the installation.
        2.1.2. Establish priorities to ensure that managers and the CPO have the resources
        needed to carry out their mobilization staffing responsibilities.
        2.1.3. Ensure that functions to be eliminated or drastically curtailed during an emergency
        are identified.
        2.1.4. Coordinate with commanders of serviced activities of other major commands and
        their higher headquarters as necessary to ensure compliance with installation planning
        guidance and requirements.
     2.2. Supervisors/Managers shall:
        2.2.1. Ensure that all civilian mobilization staffing plan actions pertaining to managers
        and supervisors are completed as follows:
            2.2.1.1. Notify the CPO when the reserve category or military recall status of
            employees changes.
            2.2.1.2. Integrate the civilian work force preparedness planning into all automated
            and manual contingency deliberate planning and execution processes.
            2.2.1.3. Keep emergency notification information for employees up-to-date and
            accessible.
            2.2.1.4. Conduct annual review and update of wartime manning documents and core
            documents.
            2.2.1.5. Explain wartime and/or exercise roles to civilian employees designated as
            emergency-essential (E-E).
            2.2.1.6. Include the E-E statement in the core document and/or position description.
            Statement should be similar to the following: “This position is emergency-essential
            (E-E). In the event of a crisis situation, the incumbent, or designated alternate, must
            continue to perform the E-E duties until relieved by proper authority. The incumbent
            or the designated alternate may be required to take part in readiness exercises. This
SPANGDAHLEMABI36-501 22 JUNE 2010                                                                 3


         position cannot be vacated during a national emergency or mobilization without
         seriously impairing the capability of the organization to function effectively. This
         meets the criteria of an E-E position and requires that the incumbent, or the
         designated alternate, be removed from any military recall status.”
         2.2.1.7. Include training requirements to meet contingency needs in the base training
         plan.
         2.2.1.8. Train and equip E-E employees for their duties.
  2.3. Manpower and Quality Office shall:
     2.3.1. Define wartime civilian manpower requirements and include them in emergency
     plans and manpower support systems.
  2.4. The Civilian Personnel Office shall:
     2.4.1. Notify selected candidates that the position they are being offered is an E-E
     position prior to them accepting the position.
     2.4.2. Advise candidates and selectees for E-E positions that they must sign DD Form
     2365, DoD Civilian Employee Overseas Emergency-Essential Position Agreement, and
     be removed from military mobilization obligations as conditions of employment. Advice
     them of possible Anthrax immunizations.
     2.4.3. Ensure that E-E personnel sign DD Form 2365; keep a copy at the local CPO and
     forward a copy to the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC).
     2.4.4. Explain the required duties of their position in the event of a war or national
     emergency.
         2.4.4.1. If requested, E-E personnel will participate in test alerts, practice exercises,
         and wear chemical warfare defense equipment as required.
         2.4.4.2. In the event of a national emergency or war, E-E personnel may be required
         to remain in the overseas area after all other civilian employees have been evacuated
         to stateside locations.
  2.5. Employees shall, if designated as an E-E employee, alternate E-E employee, or
  otherwise designated to perform E-E duties:
     2.5.1. Sign a DD Form 2365 when selected for a vacant E-E position.
     2.5.2. Agree to be removed from any military mobilization obligations.
     2.5.3. Comply with deployment processing procedures as outlined in 52d Fighter Wing
     installation deployment plans, AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning, AFI 10-215, Personnel
     Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO), and any reporting instructions provided
     by the Personnel Deployment Function.
     2.5.4. Participate in test alerts and practice exercises when their supervisor so directs.
     2.5.5. Inform supervisor who to contact in case of an emergency. When a natural
     disaster is imminent, provide an emergency contact outside the commuting area.
     2.5.6. Follow work guidelines for the theater of operation.
 4                                                 SPANGDAHLEMABI36-501 22 JUNE 2010


        2.5.7. Report to work at their normal duty station during periods of national emergency,
        mobilization, war, military crisis, natural disaster or other contingency, unless they are
        officially told not to report at all or to report to another location.
        2.5.8. Deploy to or remain in overseas theaters of operation after other noncombatants
        evacuate the area.
        2.5.9. If an E-E employee evacuates his/her permanent duty station in the overseas area,
        he/she must:
            2.5.9.1. Report to his/her designated safe haven. The safe haven information appears
            on the evacuation orders or may be given to the employee verbally.
            2.5.9.2. Contact the Air Force CPO nearest the safe haven as instructed in the official
            announcements.
            2.5.9.3. Provide the safe haven location, address, telephone number, and any changes
            in the address or telephone number to the CPO.
            2.5.9.4. Perform assigned work at the safe haven.
3. Civilian Work Force Mobilization Planning:
     3.1. For E-E positions may include:
        3.1.1. In a wartime situation, E-E civilian employees performing critical support
        activities overseas will remain in place or deploy to other inter-theater locations.
        3.1.2. Military resources in the United States will deploy overseas to perform tasks
        previously performed by civilians evacuated from positions overseas. E-E designation
        applies only to those positions for which there will be a lack of sufficiently skilled
        military members at the onset of the emergency or during its subsequent stages.
        3.1.3. As circumstances warrant, commanders may increase the civilian administrative
        workweek to 60 hours during the 180 days immediately following mobilization. All
        employees are authorized overtime compensation for hours of work beyond 40 hours in a
        pay period, regardless of their administratively determined workweek of 60 hours.
        3.1.4. Supervisors will grant annual leave, leave without pay, or compensatory time off
        only to the extent consistent with the emergency.
        3.1.5. E-E civilian employees may be expected to perform their duties at locations other
        than their present duty location if the wartime mission so requires.
        3.1.6. The requirement to keep E-E civilian employees in place after war commences
        will be for the duration of the conflict, until the E-E civilian employee can be replaced by
        a military resource, until the commander determines they no longer need the employee,
        or the employee can no longer do the job.
        3.1.7. Subject to the discretion of functional managers and exercise planners, E-E
        civilian employees may be called upon to participate in test alerts and practice exercises.
        Exercise requirements must relate to their assigned civilian job duties.
        3.1.8. E-E civilian employees who fail to take part in wartime activities required by their
        position for reasons within their control are subject to disciplinary action under AFI 36-
SPANGDAHLEMABI36-501 22 JUNE 2010                                                                 5


     704, Discipline and Adverse Actions. AFI 36-704 provides penalties up to and including
     removal. Uniform Code of Military Justice does not apply to civilian employees - except
     in a congressionally declared war.
  3.2. For non-E-E Positions may include:
     3.2.1. CPO will pull a listing to identify all employees who are reservists.
     3.2.2. Those employees identified as reservists will be grouped according to priority of
     mobilization.
         3.2.2.1. Ready Reserves. The ready reserve is comprised of military members of the
         Reserve and National Guard, organized in units, or as individuals, ready for recall to
         active duty to augment the active components in time of war or national emergency
         (10 U.S.C. 268, 12301, 12302, and 12304). Included in this group are members of
         the selected reserves, Air National Guard, Army National Guard (Active), Individual
         Ready Reserve, Army National Guard (Inactive) and Navy Reserve-Merchant
         Marine.
         3.2.2.2. Standby Reserves. Those units and members of the reserve components
         (other than those in the Ready or Retired Reserve) who are liable for active duty only
         as provided in 10 U.S.C. 273, 12301, and 12306. Included in this group are the
         Active Status, Standby Reserve, and the Inactive Status, Standby Reserve.
         3.2.2.3. Individual Mobilization Augmentee. An individual reservist attending drills
         who receives training and is pre-assigned to an active component organization, a
         Selective Service System or a Federal Emergency Management Agency billet that
         must be filled on, or shortly after, mobilization.
         3.2.2.4. Retired Reserve. This group is comprised of four sub-components:
            3.2.2.4.1. Retired Reserve (retired on points, under age 60)-Non-paid: Reservists
            who have accumulated 20 or more years of satisfactory service, who have applied
            for retirement and will begin collecting retired pay at age 60 (10 U.S.C. 12301
            and 12307).
            3.2.2.4.2. Active Duty Regular Retiree (under age 60, not for disability): Retired
            regular officers who have completed at least 20 years of active duty and are
            retired with pay and retired regular enlisted who have completed at least 30 years
            of active and retired service, who retired for other than disability, and who have
            not yet reached age 60 (10 U.S.C. 688).
            3.2.2.4.3. Active Duty Reserve Retiree (20 years plus Active Duty/Fleet Reserve,
            under 60 not for disability): Reservists who retired from reserve duty for other
            than disability after performing 20 or more years on active duty and who have not
            yet reached age 60. Regular enlisted members who retired, other than for disability,
            after completing at least 20 years of active duty are included until they have
            completed a total of 30 years of combined active and retired service, at which time
            they are placed in the Active Duty Regular Retiree category. Navy and Marine Corps
            retired reserve enlisted personnel, under age 60, who retired for other than disability,
            who have total a of 30 years or more of combined active and reserve service and are
            reassigned from the Fleet Reserve (10 U.S.C. 688, 12301, and 12307).
 6                                                   SPANGDAHLEMABI36-501 22 JUNE 2010


                3.2.2.4.4. Category III (Reserve/Regular retiree, either over age 60 and/or 30
                percent or more disabled): Individual who retired as a reservist or regular active
                duty who is over age 60 and/or is 30 percent or more disabled (10 U.S.C. 688).
            3.2.2.5. Draft eligible are males in the age group of 18-25 who have not met their
            active duty/reserve obligation.
        3.2.3. The Ready Reserve employees will be contacted by the CPO to validate his/her
        status and to provide the name and phone number of his/her first level supervisor. The
        list will be updated or corrected as appropriate.
        3.2.4. CPO will identify Career Program positions and will send a message to the
        appropriate Career Program office to let them know a reservist occupies their position
        and the recruitment process may need to be expedited in case of mobilization.
        3.2.5. All supervisors will be contacted and asked to review the position description/core
        document to ensure its accuracy and they will be given information in regards with what
        to do should their employee be mobilized. They will also be asked to comply with
        instructions in accordance with the Secretary of Defense letter dated 9 Feb 01, if the
        position is supervisory in nature. These efforts will help expedite the recruitment
        process.
        3.2.6. CPO will order a career brief for every employee to validate its accuracy. A
        Standard Form 50, Notification of Personnel Action, will be sent to each employee to
        keep for his/her records.
4. General Guidelines applying to civilian E-E employees:
     4.1. The E-E program, under the guidelines of AFI 36-507, applies to US appropriated fund
     employees only. This instruction does not cover wartime requirements for other categories
     of civilian employees and non-appropriated funds.
     4.2. E-E positions relate to Wartime requirements. If a position’s duties and responsibilities
     cannot be tied directly to a war plan requirement, the position should not be designated E-E.
     Other contingency plans are not a basis for E-E designation.
     4.3. E-E civilian employees perform their regular jobs in the wartime scenario.
     4.4. E-E civilian employees are noncombatants. They may not be expected to carry arms or
     participate as a combatant. They will not be required to take part in weapons training.
     4.5. Physical requirements associated with the wearing of chemical warfare defense
     equipment should be considered when requesting E-E designation.
5. Staffing Plan for E-E positions:
     5.1. In the event the incumbent of an E-E position becomes incapacitated or otherwise
     unavailable to perform his/her wartime function, the duties will need to be assigned to local
     military personnel, US civilians residing locally, civilian volunteers, or to military or civilian
     stateside resources.
     5.2. There will be no in-service recruitment source of local US civilians to draw from as all
     non-essential US civilians will be evacuated under the base noncombatant evacuation
     operation plan.
SPANGDAHLEMABI36-501 22 JUNE 2010                                                       7


6. Adopted and Prescribed Forms
   6.1. Forms Adopted.
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; DD Form 2365, DoD Civilian Employee
Overseas Emergency-Essential Position Agreement; Standard Form 50, Notification of
Personnel Action.
   6.2. Form Prescribed.
No forms prescribed.




                                        LEE T. WIGHT, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander
 8                                              SPANGDAHLEMABI36-501 22 JUNE 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Reference
AFPD 36-5, Civilian Personnel Resource Management, 30 November 1999
AFJQS3S0X1-001, Personnel Support for Contingency Operations (PERSCO), 1 June 2005
AFI 10-403_USAFESUP, Deployment Planning and Execution, 8 June 2009
AFI 36-507, Mobilization of the Civilian Work Force, 21 July 1994
AFI 36-704, Discipline and Adverse Actions, 22 July 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, and USAFESUP, 25 November 2008

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CPO—Civilian Personnel Office
CWDE—Chemical Warfare Defense Equipment
E-E—Emergency Essential
GSU—geographically separated units
US—United States

Terms
Crisis Situation—Civil insurrection, civil war, terrorism, war, or other hostile condition that
threatens physical harm or imminent danger to the health or well-being of E-E civilian
employees.
Emergency—A declaration of war or declared national emergency, an attack on the United
States, or mobilization order issued by the Secretary of the Air Force or other appropriate
authority.
Emergency—Essential Alternate Civilian Employee—A direct hire US citizen civilian
employee who is appointed, either temporarily or permanently, to a non-E-E Department of
Defense (DoD) position but who agrees to perform the duties of another E-E civilian during a
crisis situation.
Emergency—Essential Civilian Employee—A direct-hire US citizen civilian employee who is
appointed, either temporarily or permanently, to an E-E DoD position. Such employees must
sign DD Form 2365.
Emergency—Essential Civilian Position—A civilian position located overseas or that would
be transferred overseas during a crisis situation, or which requires the incumbent to perform
temporary duty assignments overseas during a crisis in support of a military operation. The
position ensures success of combat operations or supports essential combat systems after a
SPANGDAHLEMABI36-501 22 JUNE 2010                                                                  9


mobilization, evacuation order, or other military crisis. The position cannot be converted to a
military position because it requires uninterrupted service in support of combat operations, or
because the position maintains and repairs essential combat systems.
National Emergency—A condition declared by the President or Congress authorizing
emergency actions in the national interest including partial, full, or total mobilization of national
resources.
