BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                   SPANGDAHLEM AIR BASE
SPANGDAHLEM AB (USAFE)                                                          INSTRUCTION 10-201

                                                                                            8 JUNE 2009
                                                                                               Operations

                                                        PERSONNEL RECALL, ACCOUNTING, AND
                                                                  STRENGTH REPORTING (PA)

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                           publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:             There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 52 FW/CP                                               Certified by: 52 FSS/CC (Maj Michael Wyatt)
Supersedes: SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201,                                                            Pages: 17
            15 March 2004


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2, Readiness. It explains unit and
individual responsibilities for the prompt recall of personnel during times of increased readiness. It
describes the system for reporting unit recall progress to the Personnel Readiness Center (PRC) and sets
up the structure for the initial 52d Fighter Wing’s (FW) Alert and Recall Plan. It applies to all Air Force
(AF) military personnel assigned to Spangdahlem Air Base (SAB), including tenants. This publication
requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The
authorization to collect and or maintain the records prescribed in this publication is 10 U.S.C. 8013 and
Executive Order 9397. Forms affected by the Privacy Act have an appropriate Privacy Act Statement.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847s
from the field through the ap
ropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction adds paragraph 3.6. Emergency Operations Center Recall and 3.7 Total Force
Accountability (TFA) Recall. It changes the terms Battle Staff to Commander’s Senior Staff and Wing
Operations Center to Installation Control Center (ICC). Deletes sending Defense Messaging System
(DMS) messages and using the American Forces Network to recall personnel on Leave or Temporary
Duty (TDY). Incorporates Air Force Incident Management System (AFIMS) procedures; to include:
Emergency Operations Center (EOC), Commanders Senior Staff, and Installation Control Center.
Defines composition, duties and responsibilities of the EOC and Commanders Senior Staff.
2                                                         SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009


1. Recall Policy. The 52 FW must have the capability to advance its readiness posture rapidly under
varied degrees of warning, with sufficient personnel to conduct its wartime taskings. Any declaration of
increased readiness by North Atlantic Treaty Organization or United States authorities will require
tasked personnel to respond and report to their wartime duty sections.
2. Terms Explained.
    2.1. Accountability: Personnel accountability will be achieved by making contact with all assigned
    individuals regardless of duty status (leave, TDY, deployed, quarters, etc). Unit commanders will
    develop procedures to account for all assigned personnel without the requirement to report to duty.
    2.2. Alert Hour (A-Hour): The time the base-wide recall started.
    2.3. A-Hour Figure: Those personnel, who have physically reported for duty, were on duty when the
    recall was initiated, or have been accounted for per unit directives (i.e. notified by telephone).
    2.4. Field gear (A-bag): helmet, web belt, canteen, and body armor (if issued). Air Force Manual
    (AFMAN) 10-100
    2.5. Group Control Center (GCC): Individuals designated by each group to report group recall
    strengths to the Commander’s Senior Staff Coordinator via Theater Battle Management Core System
    (TBMCS), Secret Internet Protocol Network (SIPRNET), secure telephone (STU-III/STE), or
    runner. GCCs will form in the ICC or as directed by 52 FW Commander (52 FW/CC).
    2.6. Installation Control Center: The ICC is the center of Command and Control (C2) for the
    installation. The ICC’s day-to-day capabilities are based on 24-hour command post operations.
    When activated by the 52 FW/CC, the command post will coordinate actions and recall needed
    Commander’s Senior Staff and EOC members to support ICC operations.
    2.7. Key Positions: Those functions or personnel who must be in place from the start of increased
    readiness to execute wartime taskings as designated by the unit commander.
    2.8. Personnel Assigned: The number of personnel assigned to your unit (use Military Personnel
    Data System (MilPDS) or locally developed databases).
    2.9. Personnel Authorized: The number of personnel authorized for your unit (use MilPDS or
    locally developed databases).
    2.10. Personnel Available: The number of personnel assigned minus personnel excused.
    2.11. Personnel Excused: Total number of personnel on leave, TDY, or other, i.e. medically
    excused, hospitalized, separated, or Permanent Change of Station (PCS) who have not dropped from
    unit rolls at the beginning of the alert period (NOTE: For local exercises, personnel on authorized
    pass may be recalled, if available, and may be released after reporting to their duty section).
    2.12. Personal Mobility Bag: Personal clothing requirement to last for a minimum of 30 days (see
    SPANGDAHLEMABI 10-403, 52 FW Installation Deployment Plan, for recommended clothing).
    Note: MUNSS units do not have personal mobility bags. MUNSS personnel deploy in place.
    2.13. Installation Personnel Readiness (IPR): Will monitor personnel accountability during recalls
    and will act as back up to TBMCS.
    2.14. TBMCS: The primary database for collecting recall strength information. See 2.5 and 2.15.
    2.15. Unit Control Centers (UCC): Offices designated in the unit, to include geographically
    separated units (GSU) to track and report unit strengths to GCCs or input recall and strength
SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009                                                                         3


   information into TBMCS. Since GSUs do not have TBMCS they will report recall information and
   strength numbers to their GCC via telephone or available system. UCCs form within their unit.
3. Recall Procedures and Descriptions. The 52 FW Commander initiates all base recalls by
contacting the Command Post (CP) or through the Commander’s Senior Staff when activated. The 52
FW/CC will direct a wing ALPHA, BRAVO (Accountability or Informational), COMM-OUT recall,
Commander’s Senior Staff, EOC, or Threat Working Group (TWG) recall. A TFA may be initiated by
Higher Headquarters (HHQ) during a natural disaster/emergency. The Commander’s Senior Staff (group
commanders and 52 FW Director of Staff) will then initiate a recall within their respective groups or
organization. The last person contacted in their recall chain contacts the unit’s designated person (CC,
UCC, etc.) to confirm completion of their recall chain. A runner will be sent to relay information in
situations where an assigned individual does not have telephone connectivity. The 52 FW/CC may
direct the CP to use all practical means to enhance response capability, such as base public address
system, telephones, secure radio, Commander’s Access Channel, or runners. A Commander’s Senior
Staff recall may be initiated in response to a real world, exercise, or contingency operation or situation.
An EOC recall may be initiated in response to major accidents, natural disasters, terrorist use of
Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD), or Enemy Attack; either real world or exercise. 52 MSG/CC
and 52 MMG/CC will develop procedures to recall personnel stationed at geographically separated
units. The 52 FW/CC will determine the requirements for these units to participate in a recall as
circumstances dictate.
   3.1. ALPHA Recall: Requires all units initiate a recall with 100% notification and accountability.
   All assigned personnel must physically report for duty as soon as possible. Adhere to the following
   uniform requirements: if on-duty, continue to wear the uniform of the day, changing to Battle Dress
   Uniform (BDU), Airman Battle Uniform (ABU) or Flight Dress Uniform (FDU) at the earliest
   opportunity, and report to your recall duty station; if off-duty, report to your duty station in BDUs,
   ABUs or FDUs. Respond with a sense of urgency, attracting as little attention as possible.
   Personnel will not be required to bring in mobility gear unless previously identified or specifically
   directed. The 52 FW/CC will decide if the Commander’s Senior Staff will stand up immediately
   upon notification of an ALPHA recall. All GCCs and UCCs will form automatically. Units must
   report 100% notification and accountability no later than A-Hour + 3.
   3.2. BRAVO Recall: There are two types of BRAVO recalls: ACCOUNTABILITY and
   INFORMATIONAL.
       3.2.1. ACCOUNTABILITY: Requires all units to initiate a recall with 100% notification and
       accountability. Selected personnel in "key positions" (as designated by the 52 FW/CC and or
       Squadron CC) must report for duty as soon as possible. Personnel not in "key positions" must be
       notified and accounted for but will remain in quarters until required to report to duty (either at
       their regular duty time, or a specific time indicated during the recall). Personnel will not be
       required to bring in mobility gear unless previously identified or specifically directed. The 52
       FW/CC will decide if the Commander’s Senior Staff will stand up immediately upon notification
       of a BRAVO recall. All GCCs and UCCs will form automatically.
       3.2.2. Informational: Requires all units to initiate a recall with 100% notification. This type of
       recall is used to pass information to the entire 52 FW. A telephone recall is conducted passing
       the necessary information. Personnel DO NOT report to their duty location unless specifically
       directed.
   3.3. Communications-Outage (COMM-OUT) Recall. A COMM-OUT recall is implemented
   whenever the wing sustains an overall communications failure or if the nature of the threat and the
4                                                          SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009


    need for security dictates a COMM-OUT recall. A COMM-OUT recall involves groups and
    subordinate units running their pyramid recall rosters. Each individual walks, rides, or drives to the
    next individual’s residence to pass the recall. A COMM-OUT could be used in conjunction with an
    ALPHA or BRAVO recall (see Attachment 2 for COMM-OUT procedures). In the event of a
    COMM-OUT recall, the command post will inform the security forces control center of the situation
    by any means available and obtain runner support (one patrol car on SAB and one patrol car on
    Bitburg Annex). This support will consist of notifying no less than six key personnel on base. The
    52 FW and Group CCs will be contacted and will determine if further recall of key personnel or
    continued wing recall is needed
    3.4. Commander’s Senior Staff Recall. In most instances, the 52 FW/CC initiates Commander’s
    Senior Staff recalls. In 52 FW/CC absence or as the situation dictates, the Vice Wing Commander
    (52 FW/CV) or the Wing Director of Staff (52 FW/DS) can initiate a Commander’s Senior Staff
    recall. This is done by contacting the CP who will start recall notifications as per the Commander’s
    Senior Staff Recall Quick Reaction Checklist. Recall notifications are based on a pre-established
    tiered system (Tier 1 and 2) or notifications can be tailored at the discretion of the initiator. The
    initiator will also determine the meeting location. The primary meeting location is the ICC, building
    19; the alternate is hardened aircraft shelter (HAS) 3030.
    3.5. EOC Recall. In most instances, the 52 Mission Support Group Commander or Deputy
    Commander, initiates EOC recalls. In their absence or as the situation dictates, the 52 FW/CC, 52
    FW/CV, 52 FW/DS, or the acting EOC Director can initiate an EOC recall. Commanders at GSUs
    may request 52 FW/EOC activation and support. EOC activations will be initiated through the 52
    FW/CP by the use of an electronic mail message that is sent to all EOC stand by cellular telephones.
    Once the EOC is recalled, all Emergency Support Function (ESF) Office of Primary Responsibility
    will respond immediately to the assembly area and all ESF Office of Collateral Responsibility will
    not respond to the assembly area, but will report to their UCC and await further instructions for
    recall if needed. During duty hours: If the EOC Representative is responding from Spangdahlem,
    respond within 30 minutes. If the EOC Representative is responding from Bitburg, respond within
    45 minutes. After duty hours: All EOC Representatives should respond within 90 minutes. Recall
    notifications can be tailored at the discretion of the initiator. The primary meeting location is the
    ICC, building 19 and the secondary location is the Alternate ICC, building 3030.
    3.6. TFA Recall. TFA is defined as the accurate accounting for all AF personnel at all times
    regardless of location. Natural Disasters/Emergencies (i.e. Earthquake, Hurricanes, Floods, etc.) are
    the primary reasons to initiate a TFA recall. The United States Air Forces Europe Command Center
    will notify the 52 FW/CP of a TFA recall. Upon approval from the 52 FW/CC the CP will initiate
    the TFA recall, to include all GSU and tenant units. Individual unit commanders will report
    personnel accountability numbers directly to the Installation Personnel Readiness office. GSU’s will
    report their TFA personnel accountability numbers to their assigned host group. Tenant units will
    report accountability numbers to their Major Command.
    3.7. TWG Recall. The TWG will be activated as required to evaluate Force Protection Condition
    (FPCON) levels. TWG will analyze the threat and recommend courses of action to the commander.
    TWG should be used to define Critical Information Items for any contingencies. The TWG consists
    of: Anti-Terrorism (AT), Office of Special Investigation (OSI), Security Forces Squadron (SFS),
    Operations Support Squadron (OSS), Civil Engineering Squadron (CES), and Medical Group
    (MDG).
SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009                                                                       5


4. Unit Commander Responsibilities. The commander or chief of each AF organization on SAB who
have military personnel assigned must set up a recall system. This can be done by delegating authority
for prescribing detailed plans to elements of the organization, such as flights or sections. Squadron CCs
will appoint unit strength monitors in writing and forward to Group CCs. Small units may be asked to
become part of a larger unit’s recall plan. Regardless of the means used to set up the system, each
organization must have detailed plans showing how their recall works. These plans must show the most
rapid, practical notification chain possible and must show a way to keep information on personnel up-to-
date. The procedure must cover contingencies and recall operations unique to that unit. Squadron CCs
will ensure:
   4.1. Each person in the organization is accounted for in a unit or section recall pyramid.
   4.2. Recall rosters should be updated monthly, as a minimum (see format in Attachment 3.) Groups
   and Staff Agencies must forward their respective squadrons’ and group staff’s recall rosters to 52
   FW/CP no later than the 5th calendar day of each month.
   4.3. Key positions will be staffed within 1 hour after declaration of A-Hour (A-Hour + 1).
   4.4. Sufficient personnel will be available within 2 hours after declaration of A-Hour to execute
   mission taskings (A-Hour + 2).
   4.5. Unit availability should be at 100% (notified or accounted for as required) no later than 3 hours
   after the recall is initiated (A-Hour + 3).
   4.6. Brief those individuals already on duty (i.e. swing shift) of their alert responsibilities.
5. Individual Responsibilities.
   5.1. Provide locator data (usually home phone number, address, and directions) to the person or
   office responsible for their unit recall roster. Keeping this data current is an individual (NOT A
   UNIT) responsibility (see Attachment 3, Standard Format for Recall Rosters).
   5.2. Know the notification procedures in case of COMM-OUT recall.
       5.2.1. Know who is to alert them and whom they must alert.
       5.2.2. Know how to find the person (or persons) you are to notify.
       5.2.3. Make sure the person who notifies you knows how to find you.
   5.3. Know what to do if someone they are to alert is not at home, medically excused, on leave, or
   otherwise unavailable.
   5.4. Know where their alert duty station is, how and to whom they must report upon their arrival.
   5.5. Although time is of the essence, you must observe all traffic laws and safety procedures when
   driving to your duty location. As a reminder, when notified of a recall:
       5.5.1. Do not delay for personal amenities, such as taking showers, shaving, meals, etc.
       5.5.2. Do not make any stops on the way to your recall location except to notify the next person
       in your recall pyramid (if COMM-OUT), or necessary stops for child care arrangements.
   5.6. Advise your family members to be ready for possible initiation of the Noncombatant
   Evacuation Operations. Remember the FPCON and take appropriate procedures.
   5.7. Ensure personal information on recall rosters is protected under the Privacy Act of 1974.
   Personnel are not authorized to release home phone numbers or addresses to third parties without the
6                                                        SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009


    individual's consent. Note: Information can be given out directly to the CP and Commander’s
    Senior Staff upon request as per official need to know criteria outlined in AFI 33-332, Privacy Act
    Program.
6. Recall Strength Accounting and Reporting. Strength accounting and reporting gives the
Commander’s Senior Staff vital information about the 52 FW readiness posture. These numbers dictate
how the wing will react to any given tasking.
    6.1. Strength Accounting: Primary strength accounting and reporting responsibilities rest with the
    unit. TBMCS is the primary tool for collecting personnel strength figures of all units, making the
    data visible to the Commander’s Senior Staff. Group CCs will determine whether their respective
    GCCs or UCCs to include GSUs will report personnel authorized, assigned, available, and excused
    into TBMCS. In the event that TBMCS is unavailable, UCCs will report numbers to their respective
    GCCs via SIPRNET, STU-III/STE, or by runner (if telephone communications are out). The GCCs
    ensures the Commander’s Senior Staff receives the information.
       6.1.1. Determine the total number of personnel authorized to your unit. This is imperative to
       ensure 100% accountability of all military personnel and mission essential civilian personnel
       (these figures can be obtained from MilPDS or locally developed databases).
       6.1.2. Determine the total number of personnel assigned to your unit. (These figures can be
       obtained from MilPDS or locally developed databases).
       6.1.3. Determine the number of personnel excused. This category includes personnel on leave,
       TDY, medically excused, separated, or PCS who have not dropped from unit rolls. During real
       world alerts, units may recall personnel on leave, contingency appreciation days or on authorized
       pass.
       6.1.4. Groups will report in TBMCS the number of individuals who have physically reported for
       duty, were on duty when the recall was initiated, or have been accounted for per unit directives.
       Information will be reported as changes occur, but at a minimum immediately following A-Hour
       and each subsequent hour after A-Hour.
    6.2. Strength Reporting: Groups will give the number of personnel authorized, assigned, available,
    and excused in accordance with their Unit Manpower Personnel Roster and Unit Manpower
    Document. Personnel on leave will be tracked by using LeaveWeb and TDY personnel will be
    tracked using locally developed procedures.
7. Recall of Personnel on Leave or TDY. If a recall of personnel on Leave or TDY is directed, all
units will take appropriate actions to contact personnel at their leave or TDY addresses.
8. Commander’s Senior Staff. Commander’s Senior Staff-Tier 1 (T-1) will be formed to assess
requirements, recall necessary personnel. Staffing of the Commander’s Senior Staff should be
considered, depending on tasking, to cover a 24-hour period for home station locations. The Senior
Staff is chaired by 52 FW/CC who is responsible for overall Commander’s Senior Staff direction. Once
stood up, the Senior Staff is central point of contact for 52 FW/CC, HHQ, and all base agencies during
contingencies. Commander’s Senior Staff primary location is the ICC, Bldg 19, the alternate is HAS
3030. NOTE: 52 FW/CC will determine need for 52 MMG/CC to respond to Commander’s
Senior Staff T-1.
    8.1. The 52 FW Commander’s Senior Staff T-1 is composed of 52 FW/CV, 52 FW/Group CCs,
    52FW/Command Chief (CCC), Commanders Senior Staff Team Chief (52 FW/DS), 726 Air
    Mobility Squadron (AMS)/CC and Administration Team. The Group CCs are the functional experts
SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009                                                                       7


  helping to respond to a specific situation. It also provides guidance, both directive and nondirective,
  on configuration, support, training, operations procedures and policy for operations for units
  assigned to 52 FW. Units are authorized to supplement this Section with unit-specific procedures.
  TBMCS recall will be added to encompass all Commanders’ Senior Staff T-1 members.
     8.1.1. Timely information in and out of Commander’s Senior Staff T-1 is critical. Direct
     communications from Commander’s Senior Staff T-1, through the 52 FW/DS to the ICC is a key
     component to wing-wide operational success during real world contingencies, emergencies, or
     exercises. Basic process of the Commander’s Senior Staff T-1 operations shall be geared toward
     real world contingencies and practiced during HHQ or WG directed exercises.
     8.1.2. During periods of contingency, emergency, or increased readiness operations, the
     Commander’s Senior Staff T-1 is the primary organization for Spangdahlem C2 installation
     response and on-going guidance.
  8.2. T-1 Composition:
     8.2.1. 52 FW/CC/CV
     8.2.2. Group CCs (or deputies)
     8.2.3. 52 FW/CCC
     8.2.4. DS (Commander’s Senior Staff Team Chief)
  8.3. Responsibilities:
     8.3.1. Provide timely and accurate decision-making information to 52 FW/CC or his designated
     representative by acting as a conduit for all wing activities and actions.
     8.3.2. Be fully familiar with Wing Commander’s Senior Staff publications, procedures,
     checklists.
     8.3.3. Provide guidance for creating group-specific checklists and documents.
     8.3.4. Ensure primary and alternates are available for continuous Commander’s Senior Staff T-1
     operations.
     8.3.5. Direct and coordinate security activities to safeguard resources.
     8.3.6. Direct and coordinate disaster response and preparations activities.
     8.3.7. Ensure compilation and submission of required operational and status reports.
     8.3.8. Recommend TWG activation as required to evaluate FPCON levels.
  8.4. 52 Commander Senior Staff Director, 52FW/DS will:
     8.4.1. Direct Commander’s Senior Staff-Tier 2 (T-2) operations and provide on-the-spot
     guidance to the ICC.
     8.4.2. Be focal point for wing-wide coordination of conflict resolution.
     8.4.3. Monitor Commander’s Senior Staff procedures and checklists. Annotate, recommend, or
     update as required, Commander’s Senior Staff publications, procedures or checklists throughout
     contingency or exercise.
  8.5. Commander’s Senior Staff T-2 upon arrival will ascertain the general situation and contingency
  conditions, and begin carrying out orders and guidance of 52 FW/CC.
8                                                          SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009


       8.5.1. T-2 Composition:
           8.5.1.1. Squadron CCs
           8.5.1.2. 52 FW/XP (Chief of Plans)
           8.5.1.3. IDO (Installation Deployment Officer)
           8.5.1.4. 52 FW ICC Director (Command Post representative)
           8.5.1.5. 52 FW/JA (Judge Advocate)
           8.5.1.6. 52 FW/PA (Public Affairs) officer
           8.5.1.7. 52 FW/IG (Inspector General)
           8.5.1.8. 52 FW/SE (Chief of Safety)
           8.5.1.9. 52 Operations Group (OG)/OGV (Chief, Wing Standardization and Evaluation)
           8.5.1.10. 52 FW/HO (History Observer)
           8.5.1.11. Any other functional expert or subject matter expert that the Installation
           Commander deems required depending on the response.
       8.5.2. Responsibilities: Commander’s Senior Staff T-2 members will:
           8.5.2.1. Notify Commander’s Senior Staff Team Chief of pertinent information from their
           functional area.
           8.5.2.2. Maintain contact with applicable UCCs and pass information to and from
           Commander’s Senior Staff Team Chief as directed or required.
           8.5.2.3. Be focal point for coordination of conflict resolution.
           8.5.2.4. Immediately notify Commander’s Senior Staff Team Chief if contact is lost with any
           UCC.
    8.6. Commander’s Senior Staff Briefings/Initial Situation Assessment. Briefing will be held as soon
    as possible following 52 FW/CC notification and after Commander’s Senior Staff recall and
    formation. It is intended to quickly inform Commander’s Senior Staff members of pertinent details,
    operational aspects, HHQ guidance and criteria. Normally, reference start time (RST) 1+30 brief
    will be sufficient for this purpose; however, 52 FW/CC may decide that a situation specific “what
    we know right now” briefing is necessary.
       8.6.1. Recurring Commander’s Senior Staff briefing(s) are normally 0600 and 1800 daily or as
       directed by 52 FW/CC. Appropriate HHQ/wing plans will be reviewed. Commander’s Senior
       Staff members will be notified of established RST. As a minimum, briefings should cover:
       8.6.2. Reason for Commander’s Senior Staff formation.
       8.6.3. Current intelligence and situation report.
       8.6.4. Status of current wing actions.
       8.6.5. All or any known limiting factors.
       8.6.6. Current security considerations.
       8.6.7. Weather (current/forecast) for time and location of interest.
SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009                                                                      9


   8.7. Installation Control Center checklists. The Emergency Management Flight will manage EOC
   checklists and the Commander’s Senior Staff Team Chief will manage Commander’s Senior Staff
   checklists and binders. Checklists will be reviewed for accuracy and scope of responsibility at least
   semiannually and/or 2 weeks prior to an exercise.
   8.8. Commander’s Senior Staff Administration
      8.8.1. The Commander’s Senior Staff Administration is responsibility for timely, accurate, and
      up to date information dissemination within EOC and Commander’s Senior Staff. The
      Commander’s Senior Staff Administration will report directly to the Commander’s Senior Staff
      Team Chief and then to the Commander to assist in ensuring proper information flow. The
      Commander’s Senior Staff Team Chief is responsible for all aspects of the ICC facility and the
      Commanders Senior Staff Administration team.
      8.8.2. Administration Composition
          8.8.2.1. The Commander’s Senior Staff Administration Team Lead (preferably two Non-
          Commissioned Officer (NCOs) Technical Sergeant or higher) are responsible for the
          administration team including: administration station in the ICC, maintaining a current recall
          roster, pre-exercise preparation/training and overall reporting to the 52 FW/DS. The team
          leads will have an EOC stand by phone and are responsible for responding to EOC recalls.
          They must provide their information to the Emergency Management Flight to ensure that the
          EOC Roster is correct.
              8.8.2.1.1. Overall composition (6 members)

Figure 1. Composition overview.




          8.8.2.2. Four Commander’s Senior Staff Administration members are required to possess the
          1B0X3 Air Force Specialty Code and have full administrator rights.
          8.8.2.3. Groups are responsible for keeping their “slot” manned and trained, regardless of
          deployments/TDY and PCS movements, and it is that Group’s responsibility to be able to fill
          the requirement on a moment’s notice with a fully trained individual.
      8.8.3. Responsibilities:
          8.8.3.1. Provide immediate administrative support to Commander’s Senior Staff and the
          EOC.
          8.8.3.2. Prepare Commander’s Directives and messages for distribution.
          8.8.3.3. Run slide show for Commander’s Senior Staff situation briefings, or other briefings
          as directed by 52 FW/DS.
          8.8.3.4. Perform duties as determined by 52 FW/DS or shift Non-Commissioned Officer-In-
          Charge (NCOIC) see 8.8.2.1.
10                                                       SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009


           8.8.3.5. The Commander’s Senior Staff Administration Team Lead will provide a monthly
           updated recall roster directly to the 52 FW/DS by the first Monday of every month.
           8.8.3.6. The Commander’s Senior Staff Administration will maintain accountability of all
           individuals in the ICC.
           8.8.3.7. The Commander’s Senior Staff Administration will facilitate ICC additional duties
           as they arise to include building survivability schedules (e.g. commander’s four-person post
           attack recognizance team for the ICC).
           8.8.3.8. The Commander’s Senior Staff Administration Lead (NCO) is responsible for
           procedures, checklists, facilities, equipment, and training requirements.
     8.9. EOC Operations
        8.9.1. General. The EOC is the primary command and control element and will provide wing-
        wide C2 in order to respond to, mitigate, and recover from major accidents, natural disasters,
        conventional attacks (including those using high-yield explosives), terrorist use of WMD, and
        enemy attacks on Air Force personnel, resources, and operations; as well as aiding civil
        authority requests within base capabilities. EOC primary location is the ICC, Bldg 19, the
        alternate is HAS 3030.
        8.9.2. EOC Composition:
           8.9.2.1. EOC Director
           8.9.2.2. Civil Engineering Representative (52 CES)
           8.9.2.3. Fire Department (52 CES/CEF)
           8.9.2.4. Explosive Ordnance Disposal (52 CES/CED)
           8.9.2.5. Emergency Management (52 CES/CEX)
           8.9.2.6. Bio-Environmental Engineer (52 MDG/SGPD)
           8.9.2.7. Communications Representative (52 CS)
           8.9.2.8. Logistics Readiness Representative (52 LRS)
           8.9.2.9. Force Support Representative (52 FSS)
           8.9.2.10. Medical Representative (52 MDG)
           8.9.2.11. Security Forces Representative (52 SFS)
           8.9.2.12. Public Affairs (52 FW/PA)
           8.9.2.13. OSI Representative (DET 518)
           8.9.2.14. Air Mobility Representative (726 AMS)
           8.9.2.15. Contracting Representative (52 CONS)
           8.9.2.16. Comptroller Representative (52 CPTS)
           8.9.2.17. Chaplain Representative (52 FW/HC)
           8.9.2.18. Judge Advocate Representative (52 FW/JA)
           8.9.2.19. Maintenance Representative (52 CMS, 52 EMS)
SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009                                                                11


          8.9.2.20. Operational Support Representative (52 OSS)
          8.9.2.21. Safety Representative (52 FW/SE)
          8.9.2.22. EOC Administration
   8.10. Responsibilities. Specific responsibilities for the EOC can be found in the Spangdahlem AB
   Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2.
9. Forms Adopted and Prescribed.
   9.1. Forms Adopted.
   AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
   9.2. Forms Prescribed.
   No forms prescribed.




                                          LEE T. WIGHT, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
12                                                 SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009


                                         Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008, and USAFESUP, 25 November 2008

AFI33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004

AFPD10-2, Readiness, 30 October 2006

SPANGDAHLEMABI 10-403, 52 FW Installation Deployment Plan, 14 July 1998

Abbreviations and Acronyms

A- Hour—Alert Hour
ABU— Airman Battle Uniform
AF— Air Force
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFN—American Forces Network
BDU—Battle Dress Uniform
C 2— Command and Control
CC— Commander
COMM—OUT—Communications Outage
CP— Command Post
DCG—Disaster Control Group
DRF—Disaster Response Force
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
ESF—Emergency Support Function
FDU— Flight Dress Uniform
FPCON— Force Protection Condition
FW—Fighter Wing
GCE—Ground Crew Ensemble
GCC—Group Control Center
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HAS— Hardened Aircraft Shelter
HHQ— Higher Headquarters
SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009              13


ICC—Installation Control Center
IPR— Installation Personnel Readiness
JA— Judge Advocate
MilPDS— Military Personnel Data System
MDG— Medical Group
MSG— Mission Support Group
NEO—Noncombatant Evacuation Operations
NLT—No later than
OG— Operations Group
OPLAN—Operations Plan
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PRC—Personnel Readiness Center
RST— Reference Start Time
SAB— Spangdahlem Air Base
SIPR—Secure Internet Protocol Router
STU III/STE— Secure Telephone
TBMCS—Theater Battle Management Core System
TDY—Temporary Duty
TFA— Total Force Accountability
TWG— Threat Working Group
UCC—Unit Control Center
WMD—Weapons of Mass Destruction
14                                                          SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009


                                              Attachment 2
                          COMMUNICATIONS-OUTAGE PROCEDURES

A2.1. COMM-OUT recall procedures. COMM-OUT recall procedures will be implemented if the
commercial and DSN telephone systems are inoperable and a recall is necessary or if the nature of the
threat and need for security dictates a communications outage.
     A2.1.1. The command post will inform the security forces control center of the situation by any
     means available and obtain runner support (one patrol car on Spangdahlem AB and one patrol car on
     Bitburg Annex). This support will consist of notifying no less than six key personnel on base. The
     on-duty security forces supervisor may support the command post request further if mission dictates.
     Command post will direct the runner to contact the wing commander, briefing him or her on the
     situation and if required, request his or her presence in the command post. The runner will return to
     the command post and relay any instructions received from the wing commander.
     A2.1.2. If the 52 FW/CC directs a recall, the security forces runner will notify Commander’s Senior
     Staff members living in base quarters. Command post will provide the runner with a list of
     personnel, including addresses.
     A2.1.3. When contacted, individuals will initiate their portion of the unit’s COMM-OUT recall
     procedures, and then report to duty.
     A2.1.4. Each organization will develop their own internal COMM-OUT recall procedures, ensuring
     pyramid recall procedures are established for all situations.
A2.2. Degraded Communications
     A2.2.1. In the event the command post experiences a failure of normal telephone communications;
     the duty controllers will assess the situation and make initial notifications using COMM-OUT
     procedures. If notification is required to be made by the command post, groups, organizations and
     individuals will implement their COMM-OUT recall procedures as required. Use any available
     communications system to relay recall notifications.
A2.3. COMM-OUT Personnel Strength Accountability Reporting
     A2.3.1. Units will provide initial personnel strength reporting, containing the same information as
     required for an ALPHA or a BRAVO recall, via runner to each respective GCC.
     A2.3.2. Initial personnel strength reporting will be reported to each respective GCC via runner by
     A-HOUR + 01:30 and NLT A-HOUR + 2. A subsequent personnel strength report will be reported
     to the GCC by A-HOUR + 2:30 and NLT A-HOUR + 3. Units who do not have 100%
     accountability of all personnel at the A-HOUR + 3 will be required to continue to give personnel
     strength reports to their GCC on an hourly basis until 100% accountability is achieved.
A2.4. Responsibilities
     A2.4.1. 52 FW/CC will direct personnel recall as required.
     A2.4.2. Group Commanders will appoint a group recall monitor who will be responsible for
     consolidating group strength and data reporting, and that their respective unit control centers (UCCs)
     are staffed and trained to implement COMM-OUT recall procedures accurately and in a timely
     manner.
        A2.4.2.1. Ensure subordinate units develop and update recall rosters each month.
SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009                                                                   15


     A2.4.2.2. Develop and maintain current COMM-OUT recall procedures and maps for their
     units.
     A2.4.2.3. Send a copy of group staff recall roster and COMM-OUT maps to the 52 FW/CP.
  A2.4.3. 52 MSG/CC and 52 MMG/CC will develop procedures to recall personnel stationed at
  geographically separated units. The 52 MSG/CC and 52 MMG/CC will determine the requirements
  for these units to participate in a recall as circumstances dictate.
  A2.4.4. All subordinate commanders, staff agencies, and associated unit commanders will:
     A2.4.4.1. Establish internal recall procedures and develop COMM-OUT recall rosters. Recall
     rosters are to be reviewed monthly for accuracy and sent to the 52 FW/CP when changes are
     made.
     A2.4.4.2. Ensure unit control centers implement recall procedures accurately and in a timely
     manner.
     A2.4.4.3. Develop unit COMM-OUT procedures to sustain 24-hour operations. Staffing
     requirements and recall rosters will include essential civilian personnel. Designate an on base
     point of contact for both Spangdahlem AB and Bitburg Annex. The commander will implement
     procedures to notify the designated POC that a COMM-OUT recall has been initiated; this
     individual is then responsible for initiating the unit recall accordingly. All units will provide
     their respective group representative and command post a current letter designating their
     COMM-OUT POC for Spangdahlem AB and Bitburg Annex.
  A2.4.5. Command Post will maintain a key Commander’s Senior Staff list with alternates. This list
  will include current addresses, maps and telephone numbers and will be verified on a monthly base.
     A2.4.5.1. Notify Security Forces to conduct a COMM-OUT recall.
  A2.4.6. Chief of Security Forces will dispatch available public address equipped vehicles on
  Spangdahlem AB and Bitburg Annex announcing recall instructions (if there are no security
  restrictions).
     A2.4.6.1. Assist in the notification of key personnel in the event of a COMM-OUT (See
     paragraph 1.1.).
16                                             SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009


                                     Attachment 3
                      STANDARD FORMAT FOR RECALL ROSTERS

Figure A3.1. Recall Roster Sample.
SPANGDAHLEMABI10-201 8 JUNE 2009                                                                                                                                                               17


Figure A3.2. Recall Roster Sample Page 2.

 RECALL TYPES (Ref: SPANGDAHLEMABI 10-201
    ALPHA Recall. Requires all units to initiate a recall with 100% notification and accountability. All assigned personnel must physically
    report for duty as soon as possible. Adhere to the following uniform requirements: if on-duty, continue to wear the uniform of the day,
    changing to Battle Dress Uniform (BDU), Airman Battle Uniform (ABU) or flightsuit at the earliest opportunity, and report to your recall
    duty station; if off-duty, report to your duty station in BDUs, ABUs or flightsuits. Respond with a sense of urgency, attracting as little
    attention as possible. BRAVO Recall: There are two types of BRAVO recalls: ACCOUNTABILITY and INFORMATIONAL.
 ACCOUNTABILITY: requires all units to initiate a recall with 100% notification and accountability. Selected personnel in "key positions"
 (as designated by the Wing and or squadron commander) must report for duty as soon as possible. Personnel not in "key positions" must be
 notified and accounted for but will remain in quarters until required to report to duty (either at their regular duty time, or a specific time
 indicated during the recall). Personnel will not be required to bring in mobility gear unless previously identified or specifically directed. The Wing Commander will
 decide if the Commander’s Senior Staff will stand up immediately upon notification of a BRAVO recall. All GCC’s and UCC’s will form automatically.
                             3.2.2. INFORMATIONAL: Requires all units to initiate a recall with 100% notification. This type of recall is used to pass information to the entire wing. A
                  telephone recall is conducted passing the necessary information. Personnel DO NOT report to their duty location unless specifically directed.
    GCCs will stand up for formal wing accountability.

     INFORMATIONAL Recall. This type of recall is generally used to pass information. A telephone recall is conducted but personnel DO NOT report to their duty location. The last
     person contacted in their recall chain contacts the unit’s designated person (CC, UCC, etc.) to confirm completion of their recall chain. A runner will be sent to relay information in
     situations where an assigned individual does not have telephone connectivity.

                                                                                                                    (RESERVED FOR INDIVIDUAL UNIT USE)
 PERSONAL MOBILITY BAG—Recommended List (Ref: IDP)

 Duffel bag/Suitcase                                         Ea.                1                                                              example
 Belt w/Black Tip and Buckle                                 Ea.                1
                                                                                                         IMPORTANT QUICK REFERENCE PHONE NUMBERS
 BDU Cap/Flight Cap                                          Ea.                1
 T-shirts, Brown/Black                                       Ea.                4                        SARC – 7272
 Undergarments                                               Ea.                4                        TMO – 6068/6027
 Field Jacket w/Liner or Flight Jacket                       Ea.                1                        SATO – 6661/06565-4866
 BDU/Flightsuit                                              Ea.                4                        LE DESK - 6666/BIT 453-7400
 Boots, Service or Combat                                    Pr                 1                        COMMAND POST - 6141
 Socks, Black                                                Pr                 7                        TO CALL ON BASE FROM OFF: 06565-61-XXXX
 Towels                                                      Ea.                3                        TO CALL OFF BASE FROM ON: 99-+NUMBER
 Wash Cloths                                                 Ea.                2                        RAMSTEIN PAX - 480-5363
 Civilian Clothes                                            Sets               2                        SPANGDAHLEM PAX – 88
 Toiletries                                                  Kit               30 Days Supply
 Additional Items to Consider
 Laundry Detergent                            Sewing Kit
 Nail Clippers                                Shoe Polish
 Extra Shoes/Boots                            Make-up Kit
 Shower Shoes                                 Insect Repellent
 Work Gloves
 NOTE: Due to short
 EMERGENCY             notice taskings, personnel who do not possess DCUs should obtain Name
                   NUMBERS
 tapes and rankfrom
 Ambulance       and Spang
                     keep available.
                            AB                116
 Ambulance from Spang Housing.                61-116
 Ambulance from Bitburg Mil.                  19222
 FIRE 117 (Comm: 06565-4117)
 POLICE          114 (Comm: 06565-61-114)
 Wing Command Post              452-6141
 HQ AFPC/PRC at 1-800-435-9941
 Nat Disaster website: https://w11.afpc.randolph.af.mil/ndwnet/
 Airmen against Drunk Driving                 06565-61-2233


 ROAD CONDITIONS (Ref SABI 31-201)
 •   Green: Normal operations for all vehicles.
 •   Amber: Road conditions are hazardous. Exercise caution due to slush, snow, ice
     patches or decreased visibility.
 •   Red: Road conditions are extremely hazardous. Drive only if you must and
     exercise extreme caution. GOVs should not be operated unless necessary for
     mission requirements.
 •   Black: Driving cannot be conducted safely. Vehicles should only be operated in
     extreme emergencies (life-threatening only).
