BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        THULE AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 32-6005
THULE AIR BASE
                                                                             22 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                 Civil Engineer

                                                              UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING
                                                                       MANAGEMENT


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 821 SPTS/CER                                                   Certified by: 821 SPTS/CC
                                                                      (Maj Jeremiah J. Hamill)
                                                                                       Pages: 9




This instruction implements AFPD 32-60, Housing.             It establishes procedures and
responsibilities for assignment, termination, occupancy, visitation and cleanliness of
Unaccompanied Housing (UH) at Thule AB. It defines duties and responsibilities of all
occupants residing in UH. This publication applies to all personnel who command, manage,
supervise, maintain, inspect, and reside in UH on Thule AB. This publication does not apply to
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units and Air National Guard (ANG) Units. Appropriate
disciplinary actions will be issued by Site Managers, after coordination with the Base
Commander, for all violations made by contractor personnel. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s through the base publications/forms managers. This instruction may not be
supplemented See (Attachment 1) for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information
 2                                                         THULEABI32-6005 22 AUGUST 2014


1. Roles And Responsibilities
     1.1. Commanders and Site Managers will:
        1.1.1. Appoint in writing a Dormitory Manager for each area utilized by their personnel.
        In the event that personnel from multiple organizations reside in a single dormitory, one
        Dormitory Manager will be appointed, subject to the approval of all the Site Managers
        with personnel involved. This person will serve as point of contact for the Housing
        Administration Office GC/SVH and perform duties listed in paragraph 3. Address letters
        of appointment to GC/SVH and GC/CEFAC, with information copy to 821 SPTS/CER,
        no later than (NLT) 7 days prior to the appointment of new or replacement personnel.
        1.1.2. Ensure occupants are aware of responsibilities through written notification.
        Commander, First Sergeant, Dorm Managers, and Site Managers will conduct health and
        welfare inspections of dormitories. Inspection of military dormitories may be performed
        at any time, but should be conducted at least monthly.
2. Housing Administration Office (GC/SVH) will:
     2.1. Perform and provide all functions and services as identified in applicable portions of the
     Statement of Work for Base Maintenance Contract.
     2.2. Manage custodial cleaning services for common use areas in housing facilities on Thule
     Air Base in accordance with (IAW) the Statement of Work.
     2.3. Ensure each individual conducts a room inventory upon arrival.
     2.4. Maintain a record for conditions of furnishing in the Military and DoD permanent party
     personnel dormitories.
3. Dormitory Managers and Facility Managers will:
     3.1. Be appointed in writing for all facilities under their control.
     3.2. Attend facility manager training and maintain a current copy of the Thule AB Facility
     Manager’s Guide as provided by GC Engineering GC/CEFAC. Training will be completed
     within 30 days of appointment.
     3.3. Ensure room assignments are made IAW AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing
     Management, and goals stated below.
        3.3.1. Officer room assignments are made according to rank so that all officers have two
        rooms with a private bath when space is available.
        3.3.2. Enlisted room assignments are made according to rank so that E-7 and above have
        two rooms with a private bath when space is available.
        3.3.3. DoD civilian room assignments are made according to the equivalency scales
        outlined in AFI 32-6005 or in cooperation with their respective organization when space
        is available.
        3.3.4. Ensure room assignments for non-DoD Civilian Permanent Party Personnel are
        made in cooperation with their respective civilian permanent party organizations. The
        housing goal for Civilian Permanent Party Personnel will be based on the following
        classification of workers and is subject to availability: Site Managers – 2 rooms + 1
THULEABI32-6005 22 AUGUST 2014                                                               3


     individual bathroom; Upper Management – 1 room + 1 individual or shared bath;
     Employees – 1 room + 1 shared bathroom or centralized latrine; Couples – 2 rooms + 1
     individual bathroom
  3.4. Ensure all incoming permanent party personnel are provided clean quarters, a room key,
  towels (until personal property shipment arrives), and bed linens immediately upon arrival.
  3.5. Ensure all incoming permanent party personnel contact the Housing Administration
  Office at extension 2313 within three (3) duty days after arrival to schedule room inventory
  and complete in-processing.
  3.6. Ensure all departing personnel contact the Dormitory Manager and the Housing
  Administration Office to arrange for outgoing inspection and inventory NLT 7 days prior to
  departure.
  3.7. Brief each newcomer on their responsibilities, the contents of this instruction, local
  policies and procedures, and ensure in-processing actions are complete. Inspect each room
  with occupant to identify any needed repairs. Issue room identification cards or uniform
  door signs.
  3.8. Be responsible for the cleanliness and condition of each vacated room and ensure all
  departing individuals complete out processing actions.
  3.9. Maintain one bulletin board on each floor of their dormitory. Bulletin boards will
  comply with ABG/CC’s memorandum guidance and contain at a minimum the following
  items:
  3.9.1. Emergency telephone numbers (fire, hospital, and security forces).
  3.9.2. Dormitory Manager’s and alternate’s name, room number, and telephone number.
  3.9.3. TABI 32-2001, Fire Prevention and Protection, and a fire evacuation plan.
  3.9.4. Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) Representative name and telephone
  number.
  3.10. Monitor the physical maintenance, appearance, and condition of their facility to
  include furnishings and appliances. Report all necessary repairs or needed service to Service
  Call at extension 2111. If assistance is needed concerning preparation of maintenance and
  work requests contact GC/CEMEC. Maintain a log containing the following information:
     3.10.1. Date reported.
     3.10.2. Nature of request or problem.
     3.10.3. Job order number and estimated completion date (if available).
     3.10.4. Follow-up action or status.
     3.10.5. Date completed.
  3.11. Accompany base fire department personnel during scheduled fire inspections. Ensure
  all fire hazards noted during inspections are corrected IAW instructions provided by the base
  fire department and appropriate regulations.
  3.12. Accompany inspectors during health and welfare inspections. Be prepared to brief on
  current occupancy, problems, and any self-help actions currently under way.
 4                                                        THULEABI32-6005 22 AUGUST 2014


     3.13. Ensure outside areas are kept clean and free of litter and debris.
     3.14. Ensure all outside steps and entrances are kept free of snow and ice.
     3.15. Ensure use of the Storm Condition Checklist; provided in Attachment 2.
     3.16. Ensure sufficient Meal, Ready to Eat (MRE) are available during the storm season (15
     Sep - 15 May). “Sufficient” is defined as enough MREs for all occupants for 2-3 days.
     3.17. Immediately notify the First Sergeant of any condition that jeopardizes the safety or
     wellbeing of any resident.
4. Dormitory Occupants Responsibilities:
     4.1. Unaccompanied Housing (UH) residents will arrange in-processing actions and
     inventory with the housing office and Dormitory Manager NLT 3 duty days after arrival.
     Each room occupant will acknowledge receipt for furnishings, linen, and keys on Furnishings
     Custody Receipt and Condition Report.
     4.2. UH residents will not move to another room without prior approval from their Dorm
     Manager. Residents who are allowed to move are required to update DD Form 93, Record of
     Emergency Data, and complete another inventory of both rooms.
     4.3. Keep noise to an absolute minimum. Operate radios, televisions, and sound
     reproduction equipment at a volume level that does not disturb other residents.
     4.4. Cooking appliances or similar items (i.e., hot plates, electric skillets, toasters, and camp
     stoves) are prohibited in individual rooms. Microwaves and coffee makers are authorized in
     individual rooms. Occupants are responsible for the care and cleaning of privately owned
     microwaves and coffee makers and will be held liable for damage to government property
     due to the misuse of these appliances. Barbecue grills will be used outside only. Occupants
     are responsible to remove ashes after coals have cooled.
        4.4.1. Major appliances or similar items (i.e., coffee pots and irons) will be turned off
        and/or unplugged when not in use.
        4.4.2. Electric extension cords will not be longer than necessary and will be one
        continuous length without splices. Only use one extension cord per outlet, extension
        cords are not permitted to be plugged into each other. Extension cords will be UL
        approved and of adequate size to carry the required amperage.
        4.4.3. The use of electric multi-plugs is prohibited. However, multiple-outlet plug strips
        are authorized if UL approved.
     4.5. Occupants or their guests will not tamper with fire extinguishers, fire alarms, or other
     safety equipment. Do not use fire extinguishers for anything other than their intended
     purpose.
     4.6. The burning of incense, candles, hurricane lamps, or any open flame-type device is
     prohibited. Candles may be displayed if wick is cut off or does not indicate prior usage.
     4.7. Non-military occupants may paint their rooms with paint approved by the Self-Help
     store. The paint color must comply with the Facility Excellence Plan. Submit requests for
     paint and supplies to the Facility/Dorm Manager.
THULEABI32-6005 22 AUGUST 2014                                                                   5


  4.8. Contact paper or adhesive wall coverings may not be used on walls or other painted
  surfaces.
  4.9. Drawing or writing on walls, trim, doors, or closets is prohibited.
  4.10. Signs, posters, stickers, decals, or other items will not be affixed to any portion of a
  public area of the dormitory including individual room doors, furnishings, or appliances.
  Wall hangings will not be offensive and UH residents must exercise good judgment when
  hanging pictures and posters. Offensive items are prohibited.
  4.11. Individual occupants may purchase and use their own drapes or linens; but occupants
  are required to have government issued items in place upon permanent departure from the
  dormitory.
  4.12. Government furniture will not be removed from its assigned room without UH
  Manager’s authorization (or Dormitory Managers for military). An inventory must be
  conducted prior to adding or removing furniture from a room.
  4.13. Occupants are required to maintain dormitory furniture in serviceable condition at all
  times. Report any damage to furniture, which is not already identified on the Furnishings
  Custody Receipt and Condition Report, to the Dorm Manager as soon as possible.
  4.14. Before an individual is cleared from the dormitory, the room will be cleaned and
  restored to make sure it is prepared for future occupancy.
  4.15. Occupants may be held financially liable for damage or loss of government property
  deemed beyond normal wear and tear caused by abuse or negligence from occupants and/or
  their guests.
  4.16. All departing personnel will report to their respective dormitory managers and the Base
  Housing Office NLT 7 duty days prior to departure for room and furniture inspection and
  inventory.
  4.17. Flammable liquids such as gasoline, paint, or varnish will not be stored in the dorms.
  4.18. Fishnets or any other highly combustible material will not be hung or draped from the
  ceiling or walls.
  4.19. Smoking in bed is prohibited. Smoking is only permitted in designated contractor
  personal rooms or common areas. Ashtrays will not be within reach of, or placed on, beds.
  Smoking is not permitted in any military dormitory. Designated smoking areas are identified
  outside of the building.
  4.20. Firearms and weapons are not authorized in the dormitories at any time. Privately
  owned firearms such as rifles, shotguns, and pistols, including starter and flare guns, will be
  stored in the 821 SFS Armory. Weapons include, but are not limited to, knives with blades
  in excess of 3.5 inches, swords, blackjacks, metal knuckles, throwing stars, blowguns, BB
  and air guns, and any explosive material including ammunition.
  4.21. Small fish may be kept in rooms provided they are kept in an aquarium, which is
  cleaned to keep the room free of offensive odors. All other pets are prohibited.
  4.22. Only authorized personnel are permitted access to rooftops of facilities on Thule AB.
  4.23. No unauthorized person may make structural changes to any facilities or furnishings.
 6                                                      THULEABI32-6005 22 AUGUST 2014


     4.24. Ensure common use areas and appliances such as microwave ovens, washers, dryers,
     stoves, and refrigerators are cleaned.
     4.25. Monitor storm conditions. During Storm Condition Charlie or higher it is the
     resident’s responsibility to report to their respective Dorm Manager immediately (by phone
     or in person). Once in quarters you are required to stay there. There will be no outside
     movement of any kind without permission from the Storm Operations Center.
        4.25.1. During the storm season, between and including the dates 15 September through
        15 May, all residents must inform their Dorm Managers when they go on vacation, leave,
        or temporary duty.
        4.25.2. During storm conditions, and when authorized by the base commander, members
        are authorized one MRE per day. Members must pay for MREs at the current rate.
        Members are encouraged to have 2-3 day supply of food and water in room.
5. Visitation Policy:
     5.1. Residents are permitted to enter another person’s room only with the permission of the
     occupant and only while the occupant is present.
     5.2. Visitors are allowed in the common areas of the dorm and their sponsor’s room. In a
     shared bathroom configuration, the visitor’s presence must not deprive the other resident of
     their right to privacy. Entry to any other individual’s sleeping room must be at the specific
     invitation of that room’s occupant.
     5.3. Sponsors are responsible for their guest’s conduct while in the dormitory. Visitation
     privileges may be revoked for misconduct or when deemed necessary to protect health,
     welfare, or morale.




                                             TODD L. DIEL, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
THULEABI32-6005 22 AUGUST 2014                                             7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-60, Housing, 16 September 2005
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, 9 October 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
There are no prescribed forms
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
DD Form 93, Record of Emergency Data, 1 January 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB—Air Base
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
DD—Department of Defense (as used on forms)
DoD—Department of Defense
GC—Greenlandic Contractors
IAW—In accordance with
MRE—Meal ready to eat
NLT—No later than
OPR—Office of primary responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAR—Sexual Assault Response Coordinator
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SOC—Storm Operating Center
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
8                          THULEABI32-6005 22 AUGUST 2014


UH—Unaccompanied Housing
THULEABI32-6005 22 AUGUST 2014                                                               9


                                        Attachment 2
          DORMITORY STORM CONDITION PROCEDURES CHECKLIST

A2.1. Dormitory Strom Condition Procedures Checklist
1.      Dorm Manager notified of Thule AB Storm Condition Charlie or higher by:
______ at        hrs

2.       Dorm Manager contacts Storm Operating Center (SOC) as soon as possible and
inform them of initial personnel count.

All dormitory residents will report back to their assigned dormitory and report to the
dormitory manager. If any person fails to report, exhaust all available means to ascertain
the location or status of the member. NOTE: If the person is on-duty and essential
during Storm Charlie, verify their status through telephone contact. The Det 1/CC
determines if nonessential Det 1 personnel remain at their duty location. All 12 SWS
personnel will remain at their location.

3.       When Storm Delta conditions prevail, all personnel are restricted to the building
in which they are located, except to board emergency vehicles. NOTIFY SOC OF ANY
NONRESIDENT NOT ASSIGNED TO THE RESPECTIVE DORMITORY.

4.       Report to the SOC every 15 minutes until all residents are accounted for.

5.       Outside movement during Storm Conditions Charlie and Delta can only be
authorized by the SOC.

6.       Issue MREs only after authorized by the 821 ABG/CC or designated SOC
representative.

DORM MANAGERS MUST ENSURE SUFFICIENT MREs ARE AVAILABLE
DURING THE STORM SEASON (15 Sep - 15 May). “Sufficient” is defined as enough
MREs for all occupants for 2-3 days.

7.      The Housing Office will call the SOC in Storm Condition Charlie or Delta for
GC and transient personnel accountability.

8.       The storm representative for BAE, Harris, and all other civilian organizations
will contact the SOC with their respective personnel accountability.
