BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          THULE AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 32-2001
THULE AIR BASE
                                                                                28 AUGUST 2014

                                                                                    Civil Engineer

                                                  FIRE EMERGENCY SERVICES PROGRAM




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication


OPR: 821 SPTS/CEF                                                      Certified by: 821 SPTS/CC
                                                                      (Major Jeremiah J. Hammill)
                                                                                         Pages: 21




This publication implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-2001,
The Fire Emergency Services Program; DoD Instruction (DoDI) 6055.06, DoD Fire and
Emergency Services (F & ES) Program; and National Fire Protection Association (NFPA)
standards. It establishes and describes specific fire safety practices for conducting on and off-
base activities in the Thule Air Base Defense Area. Requirements in this publication are
mandatory, unless indicated otherwise and applies to military, civilian, personnel assigned and
attached to and visitors of Thule Air Base, Greenland All personnel are responsible for the
actions of their families and guests while visiting Thule AB. Send requests for waivers to this
regulation to the fire chief. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s
through the base publications/forms managers. The use of the name or mark of the NFPA or any
commercial products, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by
the USAF. When using Personally Identifiable Information (name, rank, etc. IAW DoD 5400.11-
R/ AFI 33-332 Privacy Act statements must be accompanied/ attached or on printed forms. See
Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information
 2                                                                               THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014




       1.      Overview. ...............................................................................................................     2
       2.      Authority. ...............................................................................................................    3
       3.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................       3
       4.      Fire Prevention Visit Process. ................................................................................               4
       5.      Fire/Emergency Reporting Procedures. .................................................................                        5
       6.      Yielding to Emergency Vehicles/Restricted Parking. ............................................                               6
       7.      Fire Hydrants. ........................................................................................................       6
       8.      Fire Extinguishers. .................................................................................................         7
       9.      Facility Evacuation Training. .................................................................................               7
       10.     Fire Exits And Exit Lights. ....................................................................................              8
       11.     Fire Prevention Training. .......................................................................................             9
       12.     Smoking and Disposal of Smoking Material. ........................................................                            9
       13.     Electrical Installation, Appliances, and Heating Equipment. ................................                                 10
       14.     Flammable/Combustible Liquid/Liquefied Petroleum Gas Storage. .....................                                          11
       15.     Welding, Cutting, and Use of Open Flame Torches. .............................................                               13
       16.     Open Burning and Fireworks. ................................................................................                 14
       17.     Ammuntion And Explosives. .................................................................................                  14
       18.     Housekeeping. ........................................................................................................       14
       19.     Warehouse/Storage Facilities. ................................................................................               15
       20.     Dormitories and Lodging Quarters. .......................................................................                    15
       21.     Public Assembly Facilities. ....................................................................................             16
       22.     Decorations And Furnishings. ...............................................................................                 17
       23.     Self-Help Work Projects. .......................................................................................             18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              19

Attachment 2—PROCEDURES FOR FIRE ALARM ACTIONS IN STORM
             CONDITIONS CHARLIE & DELTA                                                                                                     21


1. Overview. The objective of the installation Fire Prevention Program is to eliminate the
potential causes of fire and reduce loss of life, injuries, and property damage and to protect the
environment should fire occur. Accomplishing these objectives is vital if the mission is to
continue without delay due to fire. To reach these objectives, it is necessary to reduce unsafe
practices and conditions. This is done through the education of all personnel, command support
THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                       3


at all levels, and enforcement of safe practices. Therefore, fire prevention and fire safety will not
be compromised for reasons of expediency or economy.
2. Authority.
   2.1. Base Fire Marshall. The senior Civil Engineer officer is the officer designated as the
   Base Fire Marshall and serves as an advisor to the 821 ABG Commanders on fire matters.
   The Base Fire Marshall is the Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ) and is authorized to direct
   stoppage of operations or processes considered to be a fire or explosive hazard.
   2.2. Fire Chief. The Fire Chief is the fire protection flight chief and is responsible to the
   Base Fire Marshall for establishing and managing an effective fire protection and prevention
   program. Through the Assistant Fire Chief of Fire Prevention, the Fire Chief develops and
   administers the installation Fire Prevention Program.
       2.2.1. The Fire Chief or Senior Fire Officer has full authority over all fire suppression
       and rescue operations.
       2.2.2. The Incident Commander (IC) may establish priorities based on prevailing
       conditions; however, no one outside the fire protection organization shall give orders or
       interfere with the Fire Chief or fire fighters in the performance of fire suppression or
       rescue operations.
3. Responsibilities.
3.1. Functional Managers.The functional manager is the commander or senior operating official
at any level that exercises managerial control of an activity or operation. Functional managers
are responsible for administering the fire prevention program within their functional area and for
initiating corrective action on fire hazards and fire deficiencies. In addition, functional managers
are responsible for notifying GC/CERR office in writing of changes in facility mangers and
telephone numbers of facility managers and their alternates.

   3.2. Unit Commander/Supervisors. Unit Commander/Supervisors are responsible at all
   levels for ensuring sound fire prevention procedures are established and practiced in each
   activity or facility under their jurisdiction. They shall enforce this instruction as it pertains to
   the buildings, areas, and property under their control. They will:
       3.2.1. Ensure all personnel are knowledgeable of required fire/emergency reporting
       procedures, use of fire extinguishers, and fire prevention practices.
       3.2.2. Ensure fire prevention inspections and practices in facilities, rooms, or areas,
       which are under continuous lock and key, are the responsibility of the individual
       supervisor maintaining that secured area. Additionally, it is their responsibility to
       arrange/provide access to these facilities for the Fire Department to perform scheduled
       fire prevention visits.
       3.2.3. Conduct periodic reviews of the fire safety programs.
       3.2.4. Review for completeness the corrective actions required and the corrective actions
       taken on an AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report. The Base Civil Engineer must
       sign and date the reverse side of the form.
 4                                                        THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014


        3.2.5. Initiate appropriate administrative or disciplinary action against personnel who
        willfully damage or tamper with fire protection systems and devices, initiate false reports
        (telephonic or electronic), or fail to comply with the fire prevention policies or practices
        through misconduct, disregard for fire directives, or negligence.
     3.3. Facility Managers:
        3.3.1. Each facility manager as designated in AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability
        and Reporting, is responsible to the unit commander for the fire safe condition of all
        facilities under their jurisdiction. The facility manager or designated alternate shall
        accompany the Fire Prevention Inspector during the fire prevention visit and take
        immediate corrective action on fire hazards or discrepancies found during the inspection.
        3.3.2. In addition to escorting the Fire Prevention Inspector during inspections, facility
        managers shall accomplish those fire prevention duties as outlined elsewhere in this
        instruction and as outlined in the Facility Managers Guide provided by GC.
        3.3.3. The facility manager shall check all fire extinguishers, standpipes, fire doors, exits,
        exit lights, and emergency lights to ensure proper operation/conditions. Report all
        discrepancies to Service Call, ext. 2111, for corrective action. Discrepancies involving
        fire extinguishers shall be reported to the Fire Prevention Section, ext. 3158.
        3.3.4. The facility manager shall ensure the fire/emergency reporting number 911 is
        affixed to every telephone.
        3.3.5. The facility manager shall ensure all personnel are knowledgeable of
        fire/emergency reporting, to ensure all personnel within their facility are familiar with the
        facility fire prevention operating instruction, extinguisher locations and use, evacuation
        procedures, etc.
        3.3.6. The facility manger shall inspect all designated smoking areas to ensure proper
        receptacles are provided for the disposal of smoking materials.
        3.3.7. The facility manager shall ensure a closing or end of shift inspection at the end of
        each work day or activity to ensure the facility or area is left in a fire safe manner.
     3.4. Civil Engineering (GC/CE). GC/CE shall establish procedures to ensure the Fire
     Prevention Section is notified of all pre-construction or pre-performance conferences. A fire
     protection representative must attend these conferences to coordinate fire prevention
     requirements with contractors.
     3.5. Concessionaires. Concessionaires are responsible for fire prevention in their work areas
     and shall comply with this instruction as it pertains to them.
     3.6. Contractor Operations. Employees of private contractors performing work under
     government contracts shall comply with this instruction.
4. Fire Prevention Visit Process.
     4.1. Fire Prevention. Fire Prevention is the agency that manages, enforces, and executes the
     Fire Prevention Program. The Fire Prevention Inspector shall conduct a quality inspection
     that shall contribute to the fire safety of the unit being inspected in addition to gaining the
     desired results for the fire protection organization.
THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                     5


      4.1.1. All facilities are inspected for fire safety annually or after renovation or alteration.
      Public assembly buildings are inspected semiannually.
      4.1.2. Walk-through visits shall be conducted on a no-notice basis when increased
      activity or the nature of special work or functions dictates it. These visits shall include
      periods of evening operations. Follow-up inspections on previously identified fire
      hazards and deficiencies shall be carried out in this manner.
      4.1.3. The facility manager or designated alternate shall accompany the Fire Prevention
      Inspector on all visits.
      4.1.4. Fire hazards noted during the inspection will be corrected on the spot if possible.
      If the fire hazard or condition poses an imminent danger, prompt action shall be taken to
      eliminate or reduce the danger. When the hazard involves an operation or process that
      must be stopped and action is not taken to do so, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshall, Fire COR,
      and Safety Officer and the functional manager concerned shall be notified to observe and
      resolve the hazardous condition. If the problem cannot be resolved, the 821 ABG
      Commander shall be notified.
      4.1.5. The AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, is annotated to show any fire
      hazard or deficiency found. The Fire Inspector shall provide the facility manager the
      original copy of the AF Form 1487 and brief them on the hazards noted with
      recommendations for corrective actions. The facility manager must indicate the actions
      taken on the reverse side of the form, have the functional manager sign and date, and
      return the form to the Fire Prevention Section within the specified time.
      4.1.6. Any Fire Prevention Visit Report identifying hazards or deficiencies that require
      submission of an AF Form 332, BCE Work Request, to GC/CERR for corrective action
      shall show full justification with references.
      4.1.7. The facility/functional manager shall start immediate correction of the fire hazard
      or fire deficiency.
5. Fire/Emergency Reporting Procedures.
   5.1. Immediate Reporting. Immediate and accurate reporting of a fire or emergency is
   essential to minimize fire vehicle response time. Any person discovering a fire or potential
   fire or emergency situation must report it immediately to the Fire Department. This includes
   any fire whether it has burned itself out or been extinguished without the aid of the Fire
   Department.
   5.2. Fire/Emergency Reporting Telephone Numbers. Report all fires or emergencies to the
   Fire Department by dialing 911 from any of the base extension telephones.
   5.3. Fire/Emergency Evacuation Procedures:
      5.3.1. Sound the alarm, both mechanically and verbally. In buildings equipped with fire
      alarm systems, activate the nearest fire alarm pull station.
      5.3.2. Call the Fire Department. When reporting a fire or emergency, give your name
      and telephone number, location/address of the emergency, and type of fire or emergency.
      Remain on the telephone. DO NOT HANG UP until released by the Alarm Room
      Operator (ARO).
 6                                                         THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014


        5.3.3. Ensure all personnel are evacuated from the facility and assembled at a designated
        area at least 50 feet from the facility and ensure accountability of all personnel. See
        Attachment 1 for actions to take during storm conditions Charlie and Delta. If personnel
        are unaccounted for, inform the first arriving unit from the Fire Department. Reference
        A5.3.3
        5.3.4. Extinguish the fire if possible, using fire extinguishers or hose stations on fires that
        have just started or are small in size. If the fire is uncontrollable, abandon firefighting
        efforts and evacuate the building. Do not become trapped, always maintain a clear egress
        path to safety.
        5.3.5. Designate at least one individual outside of the building to direct the Fire
        Department to the location of the fire or emergency.
     5.4. False Fire Reporting. Any person(s) involved in malicious and/or deliberate
     transmission of false information pertaining to a fire or emergency including falsely initiating
     a fire department response shall be handed over to the 821st Security Forces Squadron (821
     SFS) or the Danish Police Inspector. This includes tampering with fire reporting equipment
     and devices; e.g. covering smoke and heat detection equipment etc.
6. Yielding to Emergency Vehicles/Restricted Parking.
     6.1. Yielding. All fire department vehicles responding to an emergency have the right- of-
     way over all other traffic. Upon hearing or observing approaching emergency vehicles with
     warning lights and siren in operation, traffic shall immediately clear all intersections, move
     as far as possible to the right, come to a complete stop and remain stopped until all visible
     responding emergency vehicles have passed.
     6.2. Following. Do not follow behind responding emergency vehicles closer than 500 feet.
     6.3. Passing. Vehicles shall not pass stationary fire vehicles with warning lights operating,
     proceed past a fire scene, unless directed to do so by Security Forces or Fire Department
     personnel.
     6.4. Parking in designated Fire Lanes is prohibited
7. Fire Hydrants.
     7.1. Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrants shall not be used by any person other than the Fire
     Department, except when the Fire Chief or a designated representative grants permission.
     7.2. Access to Fire Hydrants. Access to fire hydrants, post indicator valves, and sprinkler
     system connections shall be maintained by a clearance of at least 15 feet. Parking vehicles or
     equipment within 15 feet of a fire hydrant is prohibited.
     7.3. Obstruction of Fire Hydrants. Items such as signs, fences, or any other obstacles shall
     not obstruct or conceal a fire hydrant, post indicator valve, or sprinkler system connection.
     7.4. Tampering With Fire Hydrants. Tampering with fire hydrants, such as removing caps
     or unauthorized use is strictly prohibited.
     7.5. Maintenance of Water Mains and Fire Hydrants. Water mains and fire hydrants shall
     not be shut off, nor shall any maintenance be performed that could interfere with the water
THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                  7


   supply without prior notification of the Fire Department (at least 24 hours’ notice).
   Exception to this will be only when emergency work to repair these systems is required.
   7.6. Notification of Defective Fire Hydrants. The Civil Engineer Maintenance shop shall
   notify the Fire Department of proposed water curtailments that affect fire hydrants. The
   maintenance shop shall also identify inactive/defective fire hydrants by placing the
   appropriate “OUT OF SERVICE” sign on the hydrant.
8. Fire Extinguishers.
   8.1. Fire Extinguishers. Fire prevention personnel shall determine the type, number,
   distribution and placement of portable fire extinguishers as in (NFPA) 10, Standard for
   Portable Fire Extinguishers of the National Fire Codes.
   8.2. Purchasing. The Fire Department is responsible for purchasing portable fire
   extinguishers, and shall maintain and re-service fire extinguishers in all Air Force buildings.
   8.3. Used Fire Extinguishers. Fire extinguishers that have been used to extinguish a fire,
   accidentally discharged, having broken seals, missing pins or have become inoperative, are to
   be delivered by the using organization to the Fire Department Extinguisher Maintenance
   Shop, Building 628, for re-servicing, repair or replacement. The facility manager shall
   ensure a replacement fire extinguisher is placed in the location of the unserviceable
   extinguisher until the unserviceable extinguisher has been repaired or replaced.
   8.4. Blocking of Fire Extinguishers. Fire extinguishers shall not be blocked from immediate
   use or obscured from sight. Signs marking the location of the extinguisher shall be posted
   when the extinguisher cannot be seen clearly.
   8.5. Mounting. Fire extinguishers shall be permanently mounted to walls using an approved
   bracket or in recessed/semi-recessed fire extinguisher cabinets. No fire extinguisher shall be
   repositioned to another location without the approval of the Fire Protection Technical
   Services.
   8.6. Proper Use. Fire extinguishers shall not be used for any purpose other than
   extinguishing fires. Appropriate action shall be initiated against personnel willfully misusing
   fire extinguishers.
   8.7. Visual Inspections. Fire extinguishers and installed fire suppression systems shall be
   visually inspected monthly and documented in facility folder or electronically by the facility
   manager, or designated representative.
   8.8. Flightline Fire Extinguishers. The number and type of wheel-mounted flightline fire
   extinguishers authorized for Thule AB are established in ASC 490. Allowance Source Code.
   Once issued to the Fire Department, these extinguishers are assigned to the individual
   organizations having a valid need for them.
   8.9. Responsibility. The using organization is responsible for moving the extinguishers
   within their work/ramp area to meet required coverage during maintenance and aircraft
   engine starts as outlined in TA 490.
   8.10. Servicing. If an extinguisher is used or found to require servicing, the using
   organization shall notify the Fire Department.
9. Facility Evacuation Training.
 8                                                       THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014


     9.1. Purpose. The annual facility evacuation training is the responsibility of the facility
     manager to ensure the safe evacuation of personnel in case of fire. The Fire Prevention
     office will conduct annual facility evacuation training for dormitories and facilities in
     accordance with the BMC Statement of Work. The intent of the facility evacuation training is
     to expose occupants to the sound of the fire alarm system, test capacity of the fire exits, and
     to practice organizational fire and emergency reaction plans.
        9.1.1. Unit commanders may conduct facility evacuation training at their discretion.
        9.1.2. Fire evacuation drills shall be conducted at least annually in all work facilities,
        unless otherwise indicated.
     9.1.3. When annual facility evacuation training is conducted an AF Form 1085, Fire
     Protection Training Report is issued. The AF Form 1085, with names of all training
     participants is kept by the fire department.
     9.2. When to Conduct Fire Evacuation Drills. Fire evacuation drills shall be conducted at
     the following intervals for the following occupancies:
        9.2.1. Hospitals – fire drills shall be conducted at a minimum once per quarter.
        9.2.2. Places of Public Assembly – managers of these facilities must conduct quarterly
        fire drills of employees to ensure their familiarity with fire evacuation procedures of
        customers and their responsibilities during fire/emergency situations. No requirement
        exists for fire drills that require the public to evacuate premises.
     9.3. Fire Chief. The Fire Chief may direct fire drills in any facility where the needs for such
     drills are indicated.
     9.4. Fire Alarm Systems. Fire alarm systems shall not be used to conduct fire evacuation
     drills without prior coordination with the Fire Department.
10. Fire Exits And Exit Lights.
     10.1. Standards. Fire exits capacity and arrangement shall be in accordance with NFPA 101,
     Life Safety Code.
        10.1.1. Exit doors in occupied facilities shall remain unlocked and unobstructed at all
        times.
        10.1.2. Exit doors must swing in the direction of exit travel, when 50 or more people
        occupy the facility.
        10.1.3. Building exits shall be kept clear at all times and properly identified by exit signs
        that shall be readily visible from any direction of exit access.
        10.1.4. Do not obstruct exits or exit signs with draperies, decorations, placards, tables,
        chairs, furniture etc.
        10.1.5. Padlocks, chains, sliding bolts, or any device that retards the intended safety
        action of the panic hardware shall not be installed on doors.
        10.1.6. If exits become inoperative for any reason, the facility manager shall ensure
        immediate action is taken to correct the problem.
THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                    9


   10.2. Illumination of Fire Exits. Fire exit signs shall be suitably illuminated by a reliable
   light source. External and internal illuminated exit signs shall be visible in both the normal
   and emergency lighting modes. Burned out lights or inoperative battery backups shall be
   immediately reported to Service Call at ext. 2111.
11. Fire Prevention Training.
   11.1. Fire Prevention Training. Annually, and upon request, Fire Prevention personnel shall
   conduct fire prevention training for any organization. This training is available on any fire
   safety related subject and may consist of lectures, films, and demonstrations.
      11.1.1. Fire extinguisher education is required for all personnel upon assignment, and
      annually thereafter. This education shall include general principles of fire extinguisher
      and extinguishing systems use, and the hazards involved with initial stage firefighting.
      GC and non-GC personnel will receive this training during monthly Arctic Start
      (newcomers) briefings.
      11.1.2. Fire extinguisher training (initial hands-on) is required for all newly assigned
      aircraft maintenance and servicing personnel on the use of the 150 pound Halon 1211
      flightline fire extinguisher. After initial training, personnel shall receive annual refresher
      education on the proper use of these extinguishers. No Halon will be used.
   11.2. Fire Suppression Systems. Personnel who work in areas protected by one of following
   types of installed fire suppression systems shall receive initial education, and thereafter-
   annual refresher education:
      11.2.1. Aqueous Film Forming Foam (AFFF) extinguishing systems.
      11.2.2. Wet Chemical extinguishing systems.
      11.2.3. Carbon Dioxide (CO2) total flooding systems.
      11.2.4. Clean Agent (Gaseous Chemical) FM-200 extinguishing systems, or similar.
12. Smoking and Disposal of Smoking Material.
   12.1. Smoking in Industrial Areas. Industrial areas are defined as, but not limited to, all
   hangar bays, craftsmen shops, vehicle maintenance shops, fuel shops, paint shops,
   warehouses, storage areas, or areas where processing, servicing, testing, or fabricating is
   done. As a rule, smoking is prohibited in these areas IAW 821 ABG/CC smoking
   memorandum.
   12.2. Smoking in Approved Areas. Smoking, striking matches, or operating mechanical
   cigarette lighters shall not be permitted:
      12.2.1. Within 100 feet of a hydrant fueling system or aircraft being defueled or refueled.
      12.2.2. Within 50 feet of hangars, aircraft repair docks, paint shops, flammable liquid
      storage or similar locations where concentrations of flammable/combustible vapors/dust
      may be found. Facility Manager will submit a 332 to have signs made and installed.
      12.2.3. Anywhere on the flightline, including the runway, taxiway, ramp and apron
      areas.
      12.2.4. In munitions storage areas.
 10                                                   THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014


      12.2.5. In administrative buildings except as approved IAW 821 ABG/CC smoking
      memorandum.
   12.3. Designated Smoking Areas. Smoking is only permitted in designated smoking areas
   approved by the installation commander (reference 821 ABG/CC smoking memorandum).
   12.4. Disposal of Smoking Materials. An adequate number of ashtrays and metal receptacles
   with self-closing lids shall be used for the disposal of smoking materials and shall be
   provided at all buildings and areas where smoking is permitted. The receptacle shall be
   marked “Smoking Material Only.”
   12.5. Supervisors Responsibilities. Supervisors or a designated supervisor shall inspect
   smoking areas, to include smoke cabins, at the close of each shift or duty day to ensure that
   all smoking materials have been disposed of properly.
   12.6. Dormitory Manager Responsibilities. Dorm managers or a designated dorm manager
   for authorized smoking dormitories shall inspect smoking areas, to include smoke cabins, at
   least twice a day to ensure that all smoking materials have been disposed of properly
   (reference 821 ABG/CC smoking memorandum).
   12.7. Smoking Material Receptacles. Smoking material receptacles shall be emptied weekly
   or as needed. Thoroughly wet down the contents to ensure they are extinguished before
   combining them with other wastes in dumpsters.
   12.8. Trash Receptacles. Smoking materials shall not be thrown in trash receptacles, on the
   floor, ground, nor from vehicles. Do not use smoking material receptacles for trash.
13. Electrical Installation, Appliances, and Heating Equipment.
   13.1. Standards. All electrical services and installations shall conform to the NEC 70,
   National Electrical Code. Only Civil Engineering electricians and contract electricians may
   alter/repair electrical wiring outlets, etc. Unauthorized wiring shall be removed at the
   occupant’s expense, as determined by the Civil Engineer.
      13.1.1. All switches, outlet receptacles, fuse/circuit breaker, and junction boxes must
      have suitable cover plates.
      13.1.2. Fuses/Circuit breakers shall not be bridged, by-passed, replaced with one of a
      larger capacity to prevent tripping, or secured in the OPEN position.
      13.1.3. All portable extension cords shall be equipped with non-conductive plugs and
      kept in good condition.
      13.1.4. Extension cords shall not be used in lieu of permanent electrical wiring.
      13.1.5. Extension cords shall not be spliced or taped nor draped over nails or metal
      objects, run through windows or doors, holes in walls, run under rugs, or in any way be
      placed or fixed in a way that may subject the wiring to physical damage.
      13.1.6. The use of excessive extension cords by means of multiple outlet plugs from
      single outlets is prohibited.
      13.1.7. Frayed, deteriorated, spliced, or otherwise degraded cords will not be used and
      shall be removed from service and replaced immediately.
THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                 11


      13.1.8. All extension cords must be of sufficient gauge to carry the ampere load of the
      attached equipment, without heating the extension cord, plugs, or other components.
      13.1.9. Extension cords must have the Underwriter’s Laboratory (UL), Factory Mutual
      (FM), or other nationally recognized testing authority seal of approval.
   13.2. Explosion Proof Electrical Equipment. Explosion proof electrical equipment shall be
   used in hazardous locations where flammable gases/vapors are present and as required by
   NEC 70.
   13.3. Heat Producing Appliances. Heat producing appliances such as coffee pots shall be
   disconnected from wall outlets when no longer in use and when unsupervised. Automatic
   timing devices shall not be used to leave these appliances unattended, even if they are built
   into the appliance.
      13.3.1. Cooking with conventional high heat producing appliances is prohibited in all
      buildings except those having specific areas designated as kitchen facilities.
      13.3.2. Microwave ovens are permitted in all facilities, when approved by the
      organizational commander.
   13.4. Portable Space Heaters. The use of portable space heaters is permitted, as long as the
   heater has the UL or FM seal of approval.
      13.4.1. Open element electrical heaters not equipped with an operable safety shut-off
      (tip- switch) are prohibited for use.
      13.4.2. Open element electrical heaters are prohibited in areas susceptible to
      explosive/flammable vapors, gases, or dust.
      13.4.3. Space heaters will be kept at least 36 inches away from combustible materials
      such as papers, furniture, or curtains and must be unplugged when room is unattended.
   13.5. Clearance between Light Fixtures and Combustible Materials. A minimum clearance
   of 18 inches shall be maintained between electrical light fixtures and combustible materials.
14. Flammable/Combustible Liquid/Liquefied Petroleum Gas Storage.
   14.1. Control Measures.        Positive control measures shall be taken to keep
   flammable/combustible liquids and vapors from all sources of ignition. Specific guidance on
   the storage of flammable/combustible liquids is contained in NFPA 30, Flammable and
   Combustible Liquids Code. Requirements for the transportation of flammable and
   combustible liquids are contained in the U.S. Department of Transportation regulations or in
   NFPA 385, Standard for Tank Vehicles for Flammable and Combustible Liquids.
   14.2. Storage of Flammable Liquids. Flammable liquids and other hazardous materials such
   as paints, spray paints, flammable thinners, gasoline, diesel fuel, etc., shall be stored in an
   approved manner or in approved type containers.
      14.2.1. Only UL or Department of Transportation approved metal containers shall be
      used for storing or handling flammable liquids. The use of glass or plastic containers is
      strictly prohibited unless shipped that way by the manufacturer, and labeled accordingly.
      14.2.2. All flammable liquid containers must be clearly labeled with one inch lettering
      clearly identifying contents.
12                                                   THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014


     14.2.3. Dispensing and storage containers, such as tanks and drums, will be bonded and
     grounded at all times.
     14.2.4. Nozzles used to dispense flammable liquids shall be spring loaded or otherwise
     self- closing when hand pressure is released. Under no circumstances shall they be wired
     or bolted in the open position when dispensing flammable liquids.
     14.2.5. Containers of flammable/combustible liquids shall remain tightly sealed, except
     when transferred, poured, or applied.
     14.2.6. Approved safety cans shall be used for transporting and dispensing
     flammable/combustible liquids in quantities of five gallons or more.
     14.2.7. All cleaning tanks and vats shall be equipped with self-closing metal lids with
     fusible links. Only approved solvents designated for the purpose of cleaning shall be
     used in these tanks/vats.
  14.3. Storage of Flammable/Combustible Liquids Indoors. Flammable/Combustible liquids
  stored inside buildings shall be stored in flammable storage cabinets that comply with the
  requirements of NFPA 30.
     14.3.1. Flammable storage cabinets shall be labeled in conspicuous lettering which is
     visible from 50 feet away, “Flammable – Keep Fire Away”.
     14.3.2. The use of flammable liquid storage cabinets is limited to those organizations
     whose primary work activity requires the use of flammable/combustible liquids at least
     daily.
     14.3.3. When not in use, all flammable/combustible liquids shall be stored inside the
     storage cabinet and not more than a one-day supply shall be outside the cabinet at any
     time.
     14.3.4. Flammable liquid storage cabinets shall be limited to three cabinets per fire area,
     unless approved in writing by the Fire Protection Technical Services.
     14.3.5. Storage in flammable liquid cabinets shall be limited to flammable/combustible
     liquids only. All containers shall have tight fitting lids or covers.
     14.3.6. Total quantities of flammable/combustible liquids permitted per storage cabinet
     shall be IAW NFPA 30 Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code.
     14.3.7. Inventory sheets shall be posted on front of the storage cabinet, listing the
     contents and maximum quantities stored within. Inventory sheets shall be updated at least
     annually.
  14.4. Exterior Flammable/Combustible Liquid Storage Facilities. The use of exterior
  flammable/combustible liquid storage facilities is limited to those organizations whose
  primary work activities use such liquids at least once a week.
     14.4.1. Exterior storage facilities shall be located at least 50 feet away from other
     buildings or hazardous operations and identified with conspicuous lettering readable from
     50 feet, “Flammable – Keep Fire Away.” Exceptions: Storage facilities may be located
     adjacent to blank exterior walls having a two hour fire rating.
THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                               13


      14.4.2. The exterior storage facility may be conventional metal or wooden lockers, sheds
      (metal, masonry, or wood), connex boxes, or similar structures.
      14.4.3. The storage area must be protected against tampering or trespassers, and shall be
      kept free of other combustible materials not necessary to the storage.
      14.4.4. Exterior storage facilities may not exceed 500 gallons of flammable/combustible
      liquids, of which no more than 200 gallons may be Class I.
   14.5. Gasoline Powered Equipment. Gasoline powered equipment shall not be refueled
   while running, hot, or inside of buildings where vapors can accumulate. Gasoline powered
   equipment may be stored inside of a building, as long as the equipment is thoroughly cleaned
   and fuel tank drained.
15. Welding, Cutting, and Use of Open Flame Torches.
   15.1. Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Operations. Welding, cutting, and brazing operations
   shall be conducted IAW NFPA 51B, Welding and Cutting and other Hot Work. When
   welding operations are conducted outside approved welding shops, an AF Form 592, USAF
   Hot Work Permit, shall be issued by the Fire Department prior to start of any operation.
      15.1.1. The supervisor in charge of the operation is responsible for obtaining the AF
      Form 592 from the Fire Department. Operations shall not commence until approval has
      been given by the Fire Department. The supervisor in charge of the operation is
      responsible for compliance with the precautions outlined on the permit and as directed by
      the fire prevention inspector.
      15.1.2. The Consolidated Control Center ext. 2860 shall be notified prior to starting any
      welding, cutting, brazing, or soldering operation and again upon completion of the
      operation.
   15.2. Removal of Combustible Materials/Vegetation. Prior to beginning any welding
   operation, personnel shall ensure that all combustible materials/vegetation within 35 feet of
   the operation has been removed and the proper type/class of fire extinguisher is immediately
   available.
      15.2.1. Where the removal of combustible materials is impractical, a suitable fire
      resistive shield or welding blanket shall be placed between the materials and the welding
      operation. A fire watch or Fire Department standby shall be required.
      15.2.2. Welding shall not be permitted in the vicinity of flammable or explosive
      materials until the possibility of fire or explosion has been eliminated.
      15.2.3. Welding and flame cutting shall not be permitted when sustained winds are
      greater than 25 knots or in storm conditions Bravo or higher.
      15.2.4. Before welding or cutting on flammable liquid tanks, cylinders, or containers
      which contained flammable liquids (pipelines are excluded) they shall be thoroughly
      washed and steamed. Extreme care shall be taken to eliminate the accumulation of
      vapors by proper venting or positioning of the container during the filling operation.
      15.2.5. To ensure an explosive mixture does not exist, the area or tank shall be sampled
      using flammable/explosive gas detector.
 14                                                   THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014


      15.2.6. When welding and cutting operations are completed, the area shall be thoroughly
      and carefully checked by the supervisor in charge and IAW the issued AF Form 592 to
      ensure no fire hazard exists.
16. Open Burning and Fireworks.
   16.1. Open Burning. Open burning on main base (campfires, burning, bonfires, etc.) is
   prohibited unless approved by the Base Commander, Fire Chief and Environmental
   Management (GC/CEE) in writing. Anywhere else outside the main base area but inside the
   Thule Defense Area, the Fire Department must be notified prior to ignition. Bon Fires and
   Camp Fires must be at least 50 feet from any structure. Bon Fires or Camp Fires should never
   be ignited when winds are more than 25 knots or storm conditions Bravo or higher. Fire
   Department shall be notified before ignition. Ensure coals are properly extinguished before
   leaving area.
   16.2. Fireworks. The individual use of fireworks on Thule AB is prohibited. Fireworks
   used during base-sponsored activities, such as New Year’s fireworks display, shall be set up
   and discharged by properly trained and qualified personnel from a licensed commercial firm.
   16.3. Barbecue Units, and Barbecue Pits. Barbecue units and pits are not permitted within
   15 feet of any structural or combustible materials. Units or pits should never be ignited when
   winds are more than 25 knots or storm conditions Bravo or higher. Fire Department shall be
   notified before igniting units or pits. Ensure coals are properly extinguished before leaving
   area.
17. Ammuntion And Explosives.
   17.1. Storage, Handling and Maintenance. The storage, handling, and maintenance of these
   materials shall be in strict compliance with AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards.
      17.1.1. Fire symbols shall be posted on the outside of facilities, which contains
      ammunition or explosives. Posting of half-sized symbols is required for inside munitions
      storage areas. Fire symbols shall be posted on doors leading into rooms or areas where
      munitions are stored.
      17.1.2. A copy of the AF Form 2047, Explosives Facility License, shall be forwarded to
      the Fire Department’s Technical Services, and maintained on file.
18. Housekeeping.
   18.1. Good Housekeeping. In general terms, any condition relative to the cleanliness of a
   building that could compromise fire safety constitutes poor housekeeping and may be
   identified as a fire hazard. Commanders, facility managers, and supervisors are responsible
   for maintaining a high state of cleanliness and orderliness throughout their building.
   18.2. Trash and Rubbish Containers. Trash and rubbish containers used in all areas must
   have lids. Office trash receptacles are exempted from this requirement.
   18.3. Outside Trash and Rubbish Collection Containers. Outside trash and rubbish
   collection containers must be kept closed and will be located not less than 10 feet from any
   portion of a building or be separated from adjacent structures by an enclosure or wall.
   18.4. Clean and Dirty Rags. Clean rags and dirty rags shall be stored in separate metal
   containers with suitable lids and labeled with one inch lettering as to its contents.
THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                15


   18.5. Steel Wool. Store steel wool in metal containers with metal lids or self-closing lids.
   Containers shall be labeled with one inch lettering as to its contents.
   18.6. Storage of Materials. Storage of materials in boiler rooms, utility rooms, air
   conditioning compressor/air handling rooms, air conditioner plenums, generator rooms,
   telephone communications rooms, or under stairwells is prohibited.
19. Warehouse/Storage Facilities.
   19.1. Requirements of Warehouse/Storage Facilities. These facilities shall meet the
   requirements set forth in DoD Regulation 145.19-R 1, Storage and Materials Handling
   and/or the National Fire Codes. Buildings used for storage and warehouses shall have aisles
   between stacks, racks, and stored materials. Stacks shall be properly maintained to inhibit
   the spread of fire. The appropriate directives or Fire Prevention personnel will determine
   aisle width.
      19.1.1. Stored materials shall be kept at least 18 inches away from ceiling light fixtures,
      sprinkler heads, and heat, smoke, and fire detectors.
      19.1.2. If stacks of materials are over 15 feet high, the clearance for stored materials
      shall be26 inches from sprinkler heads.
20. Dormitories and Lodging Quarters.
   20.1. Enforcement of Fire Prevention in Dormitories. These facilities pose a high loss of life
   potential, where the careless act of one person places many people in jeopardy. Therefore,
   the strict compliance and enforcement of fire prevention and fire safety standards are
   especially important.
   20.2. Prohibited Items. The following items are prohibited in dormitories and quarters:
      20.2.1. Incense or any open flame devices, which produce a constant flame.
      20.2.2. Firearms and ammunition.
      20.2.3. Explosives or pyrotechnics – including fireworks.
      20.2.4. Flammable/combustible liquids. This does not apply to small amounts of lighter
      fluid or butane for refilling cigarette lighters, or model glue and paints.
      20.2.5. Cooking utensils or appliances, other than coffee makers and microwave ovens.
      20.2.6. Decorative candles may be displayed; however may not be lit under any
      circumstances. Candles that are on display shall have the wick removed to avoid the
      possibility of the candle being lit. Candles without the wick removed are not allowed.
   20.3. Cooking Activities. Cooking activities shall be restricted to those areas equipped with
   kitchen facilities.
      20.3.1. While in use, all cooking appliances such as skillets and small deep fat fryers
      shall be monitored by the user at all times.
      20.3.2. Toasters may only be operated in designated break room and kitchen areas.
      20.3.3. Coffee makers must be Underwriters Laboratory (UL) or Factory Mutual listed
      and placed on a noncombustible surface.
 16                                                     THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014


       20.3.4. Turkey fryers or similar open flame cooking appliances shall not be operated
       indoors, on combustible decking, or within 10 feet of any structure.
       20.3.5. Unattended cooking is strictly prohibited.
   20.4. Appliances. Appliances such as hair dryers, curling irons, and electric blankets shall
   be unplugged from the wall receptacle when not in use. The use of electrical extension cords
   for these types of items are prohibited.
   20.5. Fire Alarm Panels. Fire alarm panels and electrical panels shall be unobstructed and
   accessible at all times.
   20.6. Rack Storage. If rack storage is used, a clearance of at least 18 inches shall be
   maintained between rack storage materials and the ceiling/ceiling fixtures, or fire detection
   devices.
   20.7. Evacuation. Refer to attachment 2 for evacuation procedures for fire alarm actions in
   storm conditions CHARLIE & DELTA.
21. Public Assembly Facilities.
   21.1. Places of Public Assembly. Places of public assembly include, but are not limited to
   the Tow Club, Community Center, Dining Hall, Base Exchange, and Chapel. These facilities
   present a high life loss potential resulting from the possibility of panic and require special
   fire prevention measures.
       21.1.1. Managers/supervisors of public assembly facilities shall ensure a responsible
       individual is assigned during hours of operation to ensure complete and orderly
       evacuation of the building in an emergency and for prompt notification of the Fire
       Department.
       21.1.2. Operating personnel are designated to check exit doors daily prior to the entry of
       patrons, to ensure doors are unlocked and the panic hardware is operational.
       21.1.3. Aisles leading to exits shall not be obstructed by tables, decorations, displays,
       partitions, or portable seating, etc., at any time.
   21.2. Managers/Supervisors of Public Assembly Facilities. Managers/supervisors of public
   assembly facilities shall establish and maintain a fire prevention certification-training folder
   for all employees/workers. The certification training ensures the employees have been
   properly trained and understand their fire prevention duties and responsibilities within their
   work area. The certification training includes documented quarterly exercises for employees
   (building evacuation is not required) and the immediate indoctrination of newly hired
   employees.
   21.3. The Fire Protection Technical Services. The Fire Prevention office shall be notified, at
   ext. 3158, prior to any major social event, activity, or concessionaire set-up that involves
   temporary decorations or unusual interior arrangements within 72 hours of the event taking
   place. The Fire Department shall inspect the facility to ensure all fire safety measures have
   been taken.
   21.4. Maximum Capacity or Occupant Load. The maximum capacity or occupant load must
   be posted in the main offices of all places of public assembly. Capacity or occupancy load is
   not to exceed the maximum standard as set forth in NFPA 101.
THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                               17


   21.5. Curtains and Draperies. The Fire Department shall be provided a copy of the
   manufacturer’s certification showing that curtains and draperies, such as scene curtain in
   TOW Club but not small blinds/curtains etc., purchased for use in these facilities are flame
   resistant.
   21.6. Commercial Cooking Facilities. For those places of public assembly that have
   commercial type cooking facilities, the following requirements apply:
      21.6.1. A minimum of one Class K rated fire extinguisher shall be located within close
      proximity of deep fat fryer units, but not located in such a position that it cannot be
      reached in case of a fire.
      21.6.2. Each deep fat fryer or cooking unit shall be appropriately placed under an
      exhaust hood system to be protected by an installed wet chemical or other applicable fire
      extinguishing system.
      21.6.3. Each independently operated cooking well or deep fat fryer unit shall be
      equipped with a primary and secondary thermostat. The temperature setting of the
      primary thermostat is not To exceed 400 degrees Fahrenheit and the secondary thermostat
      must be a non-adjustable, fusible or manual resetting thermostat with a maximum cut-off
      temperature not to exceed 475 degrees Fahrenheit.
      21.6.4. Deep fat fryer units with either primary or secondary thermostatic control devices
      out of service or calibration shall not be placed into operation until they have been
      repaired and certified by an electrical technician. The using organization shall
      immediately notify the Fire Prevention Section before a deep fat fryer is placed back in
      operational status. All test results must be reviewed by the Fire Prevention Section.
      21.6.5. Newly procured or replaced deep fat fryer units shall not be placed in service
      until primary and secondary thermostats have been tested, certified, and tagged by
      electrical technicians. Test results shall be forwarded to the Fire Department and also
      affixed to the unit.
      21.6.6. Thermostats shall be tested annually by the appropriate Civil Engineer shop.
      21.6.7. Hood and exhaust duct systems servicing kitchen equipment must be thoroughly
      cleaned to bare metal at frequent intervals to prevent grease accumulation. This cleaning
      cycle applies to fans, roofs, louvers, ductwork, and exterior walls. All installed grease
      filters and exposed surfaces of hoods shall be cleaned every other day or more often as
      necessary to prevent grease buildup. Specific guidance for cleaning shall comply with
      NFPA 96, Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking
      Operations. Documentation must be available to show when cleaning of the ducts and
      filters were last cleaned.
22. Decorations And Furnishings.
   22.1. Decorations and Furnishing. The Fire Department shall inspect all decorations to be
   used and the proposed arrangement to ensure compliance before installation. Contact the
   Fire Prevention Section at ext. 3158 to arrange for inspection. Decorations not meeting
   NFPA code requirements and/or Air Force directives shall be removed.
   22.2. Underwriters Laboratory. Underwriters Laboratory (UL) or national equivalent
   approved flame retardant/resistant decorations shall be authorized for use.
 18                                                     THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014


   22.3. Christmas Tree Lighting and Wiring. Christmas tree lighting and wiring must be in
   good physical condition with no splices or short-circuiting in the wire. Indoor lighting shall
   not be used for outdoor use. Christmas tree lights and powered/lighted room decorations
   shall be unplugged when the area or facility is unoccupied.
   22.4. Outdoor Lights and Wiring. Outdoor lights and wiring shall be in good physical
   condition and must be approved for outdoor use by the manufacturer, be weatherproof and
   approved by the facility manager.
   22.5. Live Christmas Trees. Live Christmas trees are not permitted on base. Trees shall not
   obstruct egress to exits, must be kept away from sources of heat.
   22.6. Christmas Decorations. All Christmas decorations shall be taken down the first week
   of January. Decorations for all other occasions shall be removed no later than one day after
   the event.
   22.7. Decorations and Restrictions. Decorations shall not be placed where they would
   restrict or impede fire evacuation routes or block access to exits for personnel exiting the
   facility. Combustible decorations, i.e., fishnets, parachutes, sheets, carpeting, curtains, came
   netting etc., must not be placed on ceilings or walls.
   22.8. Candles. The use of candles is strictly prohibited throughout the installation.
   (exception: Candles may be used in the base chapel for religious purposes, in storm
   shelters during storm conditions. Wax warmers are permitted, but must be turned off
   when room is unoccupied. The Dining Hall and the TOW Club provided the candles
   meet the requirements of NFPA 1, Uniform Fire Code and approval by the Fire
   Department.)
23. Self-Help Work Projects.
   23.1. Self-Help Work. All self-help work must be approved in advance on an AF Form 332,
   Civil Engineer Work Request. Each AF Form 332 must be coordinated with the Fire
   Department’s Fire Prevention Section. The purpose of this coordination is to ensure the
   construction, renovation, or structural alteration does not compromise fire protection safety.
   The Fire Protection Technical Services shall review each AF Form 332, and make
   appropriate comments and recommendations relative to fire protection. Unapproved self-
   help work, which has created a fire hazard or fire deficiency, will be identified on an AF
   Form 1487.
   23.2. Personnel Accomplishing Self-Help Work. Personnel accomplishing self-help work
   shall not shut down, disconnect, alter, modify, or in any way impede the operation of a fire
   suppression or fire detection system without approval of the Fire Department.
   23.3. Facility Manager. The facility manager shall notify the Fire Prevention section when
   approved self-help work, which constructs or structurally alters a facility, begins so work
   may be inspected by the Fire Department during and after completion.




                                             TODD L. DIEL, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                  19


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, 21 Jun 2012
AFMAN 91-201, Explosive Safety Standards, 12 Jan 2011
DoDI 6055.06, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Program, 21 Dec 2006
DoD 6055.06-M, DoD Fire and Emergency Services Certification Program, 16 Sep 2010
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-600-01, Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, 1 Feb
2013
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-600-02, Operations and Maintenance: Inspection, testing,
and Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems, 01 Jan 2001
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-130-07, Arctic and Subarctic Construction - Buildings, 16
Jan 2004
Adapted Forms
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, 1 Jan 1999
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, 1 Jan 1991
AF Form 2047, Explosive Facility License, 31 May 2013
AF Form 1085, Fire Protection Training Report, 1 Jun 1987
AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit, 4 Sep 2012

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABG—Air Base Group
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Management System
AHJ—Authority Having Jurisdiction
ANG—Air National Guard
BCE—Base Civil Engineer (Fire Marshal)
BMC—Base Maintenance Contract
CE—Civil Engineer
CES—Civil Engineer Squadron
DOD—Department of Defense
 20                                           THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014


DoDI—Department of Defense Instruction
EM—Emergency Management
FES—Fire Emergency Services
FSD—Fire Safety Deficiencies
GC—Greenland Contractor
HazMat—Hazardous Materials
IAW—In Accordance With
IC—Incident Commander
ICS—Incident Command System
IMS—Incident Management System
MAJCOM—Major Command (includes representative of the ANG)
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
SFO—Senior Fire Official
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
Std—Standard
SPTS—Support Squadron
TIG—Technical Implementation Guide
TO—Technical Order
USAF—United States Air Force
THULEABI32-2001 28 AUGUST 2014                                                                      21


                                           Attachment 2
PROCEDURES FOR FIRE ALARM ACTIONS IN STORM CONDITIONS CHARLIE &
                            DELTA

A2.1. Procedures for fire alarm actions in storm conditions Charlie and delta
If there is a fire alarm in your dorm, go to the “Arctic” entrance area.

Prepare for evacuation of the dorm.

Dorm Manager will call Alarm Center at Ext. 911 and give a situation report. If weather
conditions permit, fire department will respond to the dorm.

NOTE: IF FIRE DEPARTMENT CAN’T RESPOND:

Asst. Fire Chief will contact the dorm to obtain a situation report.

If there is no sign of a fire, the Dorm Manager will be guided by fire department, via telephone,
for further actions.

If there is a fire, evacuate the dorm as safely as possible. Ensure everyone is out and go to the
nearest dorm up wind.

Contact Alarm Center via Ext. 911.
