                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                        21ST SPACE WING (AFSPC)




                                                                             THULEABGM31-02
                                                                                  30 May 2013

MEMORANDUM FOR THULE AB/ALL

FROM: 821 ABG/CC
      Unit 82501
      APO, AE 09704

SUBJECT: Thule AB Guidance Memorandum (GM) 31-02, Information Security Program

1. By Order of the Thule Air Base Commander, this is a Thule Air Base Guidance
Memorandum immediately changing Thule Air Base guidance to AFI 31-401, Information
Security Program Management. Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the
extent its directions are inconsistent with other Air Force publications; the information herein
prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.

2. The guidance can be found in the attachment.

3. The guidance in this memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of
this memorandum, or upon incorporation of a Thule Air Base Instruction/Supplement whichever
is earlier.

4. If you have any questions, please contact Capt Lucas Hall, (719) 474 – 3840 ext 2335/DSN
629-2335 or MSgt Jamain C. Braxton, (719) 474-3840 ext 2204/DSN 629-2204.



                                                     MIGUEL J. COLÓN, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander

Attachment:
TAB Guidance to 31-02GM
                                            Attachment

1. Policy and Program Management.

1.1. Policy. It is Air Force policy to identify, classify, downgrade, declassify, mark, protect,
and destroy its classified information and material consistent with national policy. This
general policy statement also applies to unclassified controlled information under the purview
of relevant statutes, regulations and directives. (Reference DoD 5200.1-R, Chapter 1, Section
1)

1.2. Program Management.

1.2.1. The 821 ABG/Antiterrorism Officer (ATO) serves as the Information Security Program
Manager (ISPM) for Thule AB. The responsibility for day-to day management of the
Installation Security Program has been delegated to the ATO. The ISPM, will:

1.2.1.1. Manage information security program implementation.

1.2.1.2. Provide oversight within their jurisdiction.

1.2.1.3. Provide and monitor training as required by AFI 31-401, Chapter 8, and this instruction.

1.2.1.4. Schedule and coordinate semi-annual security manager meetings to disseminate
changes to instruction and or policy.

1.2.1.5. Coordinate and conduct annual program reviews on all information security accounts.

1.2.1.6. Provide and disseminate security education material for use by unit security
managers and supervisors.

2. Program Responsibilities.

2.1. Unit commanders or staff agency chiefs will:

2.1.1. Appoint a primary and alternate unit security manager in writing and forward a copy of
the letter to 821 ABG/ATO.

2.1.2. Ensure unit security managers receive required training according to AFI 31-401, Chapter
8 and this instruction.

2.1.3. Execute programs to comply with AFI 31-401 and this instruction.

2.1.4. Ensure unit security managers attend scheduled security manager meetings.

2.2. Unit Security Managers will:
2.2.1. Provide advice and assistance to the unit commander and assigned personnel.

2.2.2. Ensure internal security operating instructions are developed and implemented.

2.2.3. Conduct and document initial and recurring training IAW AFI 31-401, Chapter 8, and
this instruction. NOTE: Security training will be tailored to meet the flight/section’s
involvement with classified.

2.2.4. Implement and monitor information and personnel security programs for the unit.

2.2.5. Provide 821 ABG/ATO with a list of locations (building and room number) for
classified storage, reproduction and destruction equipment.

2.2.6. Monitor semiannual security self-inspections and ensure deficiencies are annotated
and corrected.

2.2.7. Process challenges to security classification through 821 ABG/ATO.

2.2.8. Attend semi-annual security manager meetings.

2.2.9. Ensure TVA 31-101, Your Security Manager, is posted conspicuously throughout the unit.

2.2.10. Maintain a Security Manager’s Handbook containing: Unit OI, appointment letter,
security equipment letter, last two semi-annual self-inspections, last two program reviews,
last two security manager meeting-minutes, training documentation, and clearance data.

2.2.11. Monitor the Entry/Exit Inspection program.

2.2.12. Report security incidents to the ISPM immediately via 821 ABG/ATO.

2.2.13. Assist the unit commander or staff agency chief and ISPM in monitoring
security incidents.

2.2.14. Monitor unit or staff agency personnel security clearances and assist unit personnel
with updating security clearances.

2.3. Oversight.

2.3.1. 821 ABG/ATO will conduct program reviews on an annual basis. EXCEPTION:
Program reviews will be conducted every two years on activities or units that do not store
classified information. Greenland Contractors (GC) and GE/Americom are the only units
on Thule AB meeting this exemption.

2.3.2. Program reviews are examinations of a unit’s Information, Personnel and Industrial
Security Programs. Program reviews are not “compliance inspections” and they are not rated.
Instead, they are “assistance” oriented visits to identify noteworthy and problem areas in the
security program of the activity visited. The ISPM may use a random sampling method, but
the examination will be extensive enough to determine overall status of unit programs.

2.3.3. Unit commanders or staff agency chiefs will ensure his/her unit conducts a semiannual
self-inspection. Security mangers will not inspect their own programs but will monitor and assist
as necessary. Cross inspections permit one unit security manager to inspect another and are
encouraged. The inspection of each element of the security program may be made on the basis of
random sampling, but the inspections must be extensive enough to show compliance with
required security directives. Program reviews, as described in paragraph 1.2.4.1.1., may
substitute for the next semiannual inspection. The person conducting the inspection will send a
written report of findings to the unit commander or staff agency chief who reviews it to
determine adequacy of the inspection and specifies the corrective actions to be taken. A copy of
the inspection report will be provided to the ISPM no later than 10 duty days following the
inspection.

3. Original Classification.

3.1. Original Classification Authority. There are no Original Classification Authorities
(OCA) assigned to Thule AB. All requests for the delegation of OCA will be made IAW 31-
401, Chapter 2.

3.2. Classification Challenges. Notify 821 ABG/ATO any time your unit challenges a
classification. The 821 ABG/ATO will then forward copies of all challenges to HQ
AFSPC.

3.3. Declassifying and Downgrading Information. The unit commander is responsible for
ensuring a continuous review of classified information to identify what should be downgraded
or declassified in accordance with current directives. The unit security manager(s) should
conduct a careful review of all holdings during semiannual self-inspections.

3.4. Marking. Personnel who derivatively classify information will mark those products
IAW DoD 5200.1-R, DoD 5200.1-PH and AFI 31-401.

4. Safeguarding.

4.1. General. All units and agencies assigned to Thule AB will control and account
for classified information IAW 31-401, Chapter 5, this instruction and unit OIs.

4.2. Granting Access to Classified Information.

4.2.1. Each individual assigned to Thule AB who has authorized possession, knowledge, or
control of classified material is responsible for the protection and authorized disclosure of
that information. Each individual must ensure adherence to all procedures designed to
prohibit access to classified material.
4.2.2. Prior to granting access to any individual, certain criteria must be met. The unit
security manager must:

4.2.2.1. Check the person’s access level via the Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) or
through the ISPM.

4.2.2.2. Verify need to know.

4.2.2.3. Verify a SF 312, Classified Non-disclosure Agreement (NdA) has been signed via
JPAS. Unit security managers can have the individual sign an NdA and update JPAS if an NdA
has not been signed.

4.3. Administrative Controls. Units or agencies having a need to store Top Secret
material must contact 821 ABG/ATO prior to, or immediately after, receiving the
information. 821
ABG/ATO will establish a Top Secret Control Account (TSCA) and train all Top Secret Control
Officers (TSCO).

4.4. Storage/End-of-Day Security Checks.

4.4.1. Unit commanders and staff agency chiefs are responsible for informing all
assigned personnel of where classified material may be stored in their operating
instructions.

4.4.2. All classified documents will be stored in approved GSA security containers. Weapons
or sensitive items such as funds, jewels, precious metals, or drugs shall not be stored with
classified documents or with each other.

4.4.3. End-of-day security checks will include all areas of an office or building where
classified information is stored or may have been handled. Holders of classified information,
with assistance from the unit security manager, will develop a system of end-of-day security
checks and document the checks on the SF Form 701, Activity Security Checklist. The
“Checked By” block of the SF Form 702, Security Container Check Sheet, will be initialed
to verify the security container was checked as part of the end-of-day security check. NOTE:
The SF 701 does not need to be annotated for 24-hour operations. A process should be
developed for each 24-hour operation to annotate the SF 702 at the beginning and/or end of
shift

4.5. In-Transit Storage.

4.5.1. The in-transit storage repository for transient classified material is 821 ABG/ATO, Bldg
363, room 10. 821 ABG/ATO can be reached through the Security Forces Control Center (3234)
during non-duty hours.

4.6. Classified Meetings and Conferences.
4.6.1. Most classified meetings will be conducted in the Bldg 461/821 ABG HQ conference
room. Secure construction standards are not mandated unless the 821 ABG/CC determines
the local threat and security environment dictates more stringent construction requirements.

4.6.2. The unit or agency conducting the meeting, with assistance from that unit and agency’s
security manager, will ensure all classified information is properly protected prior to, during,
and after the meeting. Actions to protect classified information during meetings include, but
are not limited to the following:

4.6.2.1. Limiting access into the room, locking doors, closing curtains and posting
personnel outside of briefing location.

4.6.2.2. Verifying clearances of all personnel in attendance.

4.6.2.3. Properly storing, transporting, accounting for, and returning all classified information
to approved storage containers.

4.6.2.4. Conducting a thorough check of the meeting location after the meeting to ensure
no classified information is left behind.

4.6.3. If voice, tape, or other sound can be heard outside of the facility or room used, the
official conducting the meeting or conference will ensure personnel are posted outside each
entrance providing security for the perimeter of the briefing area. Security Forces are not
responsible for providing the security needed.

4.7. Standards for Storage Equipment. Safe Custodians, inspect safes for damage and
operability prior to putting them into service. Annotate inspections on the AFTO Form 36.
Use AFTO 00-20F-2, Inspection and Preventive Maintenance Procedures for Security Type
Equipment.

4.8. Repair of Damaged Security Containers. Maintenance and repair of GSA approved
security containers and locks will be the unit’s responsibility. GC will be the point of contact
for the local locksmith. The individual unit is responsible to ensure the locksmith has a
favorable National Agency Check (NAC) or Danish Government Final Screening (U.S. Secret
equivalent). GC personnel without these clearance levels must be under continuous escort
while he/she is repairing the security container. (In either case, the unit security manager, safe
custodian or authorized personnel will ensure removal and protection of classified material
prior to maintenance being performed).

4.9. Reproduction of Classified Material.

4.9.1. Unit commanders and staff agency chiefs will designate equipment for reproducing
classified material. Information Managers shall approve equipment and issue procedures
for clearing equipment of latent images.
4.9.2. Unit commanders and staff agency chiefs will designate people/positions to exercise
reproduction authority for classified material in their activities. Verbal authorization from
appointed officials is sufficient to permit equipment use. Reproduction of classified material
will be kept to an absolute mission essential minimum and there will always be at least two
authorized personnel present during reproduction.

4.9.3. Reproduction procedures and TVA 205-9, Classified Reproduction Authorized, will be
posted by authorized copying equipment.

4.9.4. Reproduction equipment not authorized for classified use will have TVA 31-501, Stop Do
Not Use This Machine for Classified Reproduction, posted.

4.10. Destruction Procedures.

4.10.1. All units will perform an annual clean-out day at some point during January to ensure
personnel are not retaining classified material longer than necessary.

4.10.2. Unit security managers will ensure all shredders used to destroy classified information
meet current standards. A notice will be posted on all shredders, notifying users if the shredder
is or is not authorized for destruction of classified information.

4.10.3. Unit security managers will be the OPR of their destruction program and will provide
821ABG/ATO a list of authorized equipment used for destruction.

4.10.4. Emergency protection, reduction and destruction plans will be developed by each unit
storing classified material and incorporated into its unit operating instruction.

5. Transmission and Transportation.

5.1. Classified Document Handling.

5.1.1. Classified documents removed from security containers will be kept under constant
surveillance. The SF 704, Secret Cover Sheet, or the SF 705, Confidential Cover Sheet, will
be attached to the document whenever it is removed from the container.

5.1.2. Unit commanders, section chiefs or security managers may authorize personnel to
hand- carry classified. When materials need to be transported within the Thule Defense Area
(TDA), documentation is not required to transport classified. The following procedures
apply when transporting classified outside the TDA:

5.1.2.1. The unit commander, staff agency chief, or security manager authorizes
appropriately cleared couriers to hand-carry classified.
5.1.2.2. The authorizing custodian will maintain a written record of materials being hand-carried
and who is carrying them until the intended recipient verifies the receipt of materials verbally.
Further, each Air Force activity or unit that releases classified material to personnel for hand-
carrying must maintain a list of all classified material that was released.

5.1.2.3. Personnel in custody of classified material shall ensure it is safeguarded while being
transported within the Thule Defense Area and shall not leave the material unattended.

5.1.2.4. Envelopes or Containers

5.1.2.4.1. When classified information is transmitted, whether within or outside the TDA, it shall
be enclosed in two opaque, sealed envelopes, wrappings, or containers, durable enough to
properly protect the material from accidental exposure and facilitate detection of tampering. The
following exceptions apply:

5.1.2.4.1.1. If the classified material is an internal component of a packageable item of
equipment, the outside shell or body may be considered as the inner enclosure provided it does
not reveal classified information.

5.1.2.4.1.2. If the classified material is an inaccessible internal component of a bulky item of
equipment, the outside or body of the item may be considered to be a sufficient enclosure
provided observation of it does not reveal classified information.

5.1.2.4.1.3.     If the classified material is an item or equipment that is not reasonably
packageable and the shell or body is classified, it shall be concealed with an opaque covering
that will hide all classified features.

5.1.2.4.1.4. Specialized shipping containers, including closed cargo transporters, may be
considered the outer wrapping or cover when used.

5.1.2.4.1.5. When classified material is hand-carried outside an activity, a locked briefcase may
serve as the outer wrapper. In such cases, the addressing requirements of subparagraph

5.1.2.5.1., below, do not apply.

5.1.2.4.1.6. NATO Restricted material need not be double-wrapped when transmitted within the
United States. The marking "NATO Restricted" shall not appear on the wrapper.

5.1.2.4.1.7. Classified material shall be prepared for shipment, packaged, and sealed in ways
that minimize risk of accidental exposure or undetected deliberate compromise. Documents
should be packaged so that classified text is not in direct contact with the inner envelope or
container.

5.1.2.5. Addressing
5.1.2.5.1. The outer envelope or container for classified material shall be addressed to an
official Government activity or to a DoD contractor with a facility clearance and appropriate
storage capability and shall show the complete return address of the sender. The outer envelope
shall not be addressed to an individual. Office codes or phrases such as "Attention: Research
Department" may be used.

5.1.2.5.2. The inner envelope or container shall show the address of the receiving activity, the
address of the sender, the highest classification of the contents (including, where appropriate,
any special markings such as "Restricted Data" or "NATO,") and any applicable special
instructions. The inner envelope may have an "attention line" with a person's name.

5.1.2.5.3. The outer envelope or single container shall not bear a classification marking or any
other unusual marks that might invite special attention to the fact that the contents are classified.

5.1.2.5.4. Classified information intended only for U.S. elements of international staffs or other
organizations must be addressed specifically to those elements.

5.1.2.6. Escort or hand-carrying of classified material

5.1.2.6.1. Appropriately cleared personnel may be authorized to escort or handcarry classified
material between locations when other means of transmission or transportation cannot be
used. Component heads shall establish procedures to ensure that handcarrying of classified
material is minimized and does not pose unacceptable risk to the information. Handcarrying
may be authorized only when:

5.1.2.6.1.1. The information is not available at the destination and is required by operational
necessity or a contractual requirement;

5.1.2.6.1.2. The information cannot be sent via a secure facsimile transmission or by other
secure means;

5.1.2.6.1.3. The handcarry has been authorized by the appropriate official as required by the
Component head;

5.1.2.6.1.4. The handcarry is accomplished aboard a U.S. carrier or a foreign carrier if no
U.S. carrier is available, and the information will remain in the custody and physical control
of the U.S. escort at all times.

5.1.2.6.1.5. Arrangements have been made for secure storage at a U.S. Government or cleared
U.S. contractor facility.

5.1.2.6.2. Couriers must be informed of and acknowledge their security responsibilities.
The latter requirement may be satisfied by a briefing or by requiring the courier to read
written instructions that contain the information listed below, as a minimum:
5.1.2.6.2.1. The courier is liable and responsible for the material being escorted;

5.1.2.6.2.2. The classified material is not, under any circumstances, to be left unattended. During
overnight stops, U.S. Military facilities, embassies or cleared U.S. contractor facilities must be
used. Classified material shall not be stored in hotel safes.

5.1.2.6.2.3. The material shall not be opened en route except in the circumstances described
in subparagraph 5.1.2.6.2.8., below.

5.1.2.6.2.4. The classified material is not to be discussed or disclosed in any public place.

5.1.2.6.2.5. The courier shall not deviate from the authorized travel schedule.

5.1.2.6.2.6. In cases of emergency, the courier must take measures to protect the
classified material.

5.1.2.6.2.7. The courier is responsible for ensuring that personal travel documentation (passport,
courier authorization, and medical documents, etc.) are complete, valid, and current.

5.1.2.6.2.8. There is no assurance of immunity from search by the customs, police, and/or
immigration officials of various countries whose border the courier may cross; therefore, should
such officials inquire into the contents of the consignment, the courier shall present the courier
orders and ask to speak to the senior customs, police and/or immigration official; this action
should normally suffice to pass the material through unopened. However, if the senior official
demands to see the actual contents of the package, it may be opened in his or her presence, but
should be done in an area out of sight of the general public.

5.1.2.6.2.8.1. Precautions should be taken to show officials only as much of the contents as will
satisfy them that the package does not contain any other item. The courier should ask the official
to repack the material or assist in repacking it immediately upon completion of the examination.

5.1.2.6.2.8.2. The senior customs, police and/or immigration official should be requested to
provide evidence of the opening and inspection of the package by sealing and signing it when
closed and confirming the shipping documents (if any) or courier certificate that the package has
been opened. Both the addressee and the dispatching security officer shall be informed in writing
of the opening of the material.

5.1.2.6.2.8.3. Classified material to be carried by a courier shall be inventoried; a copy of the
inventory shall be retained by the courier's security office and a copy shall be carried by the
courier.

5.1.2.6.2.8.4. Upon return, the courier must return all classified material in a sealed package or
produce a receipt signed by the security officer of the addressee organization for any material
that is not returned.
5.1.2.6.2.8.5. For guidance on handcarrying NATO classified material, refer to USSAN 1-69.

5.1.2.6.3. In the event that the handcarry of classified information will also involve the disclosure
of classified information to foreign nationals, the DoD Component official responsible for
approving the handcarry is also responsible for ensuring that disclosure authorization has been
obtained in accordance with DoD Directive 5230.11.

5.1.2.7. Documentation

5.1.2.7.1. Responsible officials shall provide a written statement to all individuals escorting
or carrying classified material authorizing such transmission. This authorization statement
may be included in official travel orders except for travel aboard commercial aircraft in
which case paragraph C7.3.3. below, applies.

5.1.2.7.2. The DD Form 2501, "Courier Authorization," may be used to identify
appropriately cleared DoD military and civilian personnel who have been approved to
handcarry classified material in accordance with the following, except that in the case of
travel aboard commercial aircraft the provisions of D0D 5200.1-r, paragraph C7.3.3., apply:

5.1.2.7.2.1. The individual has a recurrent need to handcarry classified information;

5.1.2.7.2.2. The form is signed by an appropriate official in the individual's servicing
security office;

5.1.2.7.2.3. Stocks of the form are controlled to preclude unauthorized use.

5.1.2.7.2.4. The form is issued for no more than 1 year at a time. The requirement for
authorization to handcarry shall be reevaluated and/or revalidated on at least an annual basis, and
a new form issued, if appropriate.

5.1.2.7.2.5. The use of the DD Form 2501 for identification/verification of authorization to
handcarry Sensitive Compartmented Information or special access program information shall
be in accordance with policies and procedures established by the official having security
responsibility for such information or programs.

5.2. Documentation (When Required). Security managers will use a courier
authorization letter when classified material needs to be carried on a commercial flight or
any other means. NOTE: Unit security managers will use the courier authorization
template on the Prancer/security manager share drive.

6. Special Access Programs. Refer to DoD 5200.1-R and AFI 31-401.

7. Security Education and Training.

7.1. Roles and Responsibilities.
7.1.1. 821 ABG/ATO will develop a training program to include slides and lesson plans
to conduct initial training for newly appointed security mangers.

7.1.2. Unit security managers will develop a training program to conduct initial and
refresher training to respective unit personnel and document who was trained and when
training was conducted. Recommended: Unit security managers tailor the material
developed by the 821ABG/ATO to meet their unit’s needs.

7.1.3. 821 ABG/ATO and unit security managers will include an evaluation of the
effectiveness of training in program review/semiannual self-inspection reports.

7.1.4. Unit security managers will conduct refresher training for assigned personnel sometime
throughout the individual’s tour. Tailor the training to mission needs and design it to address
an individual’s security responsibility. Security managers will use AFI 31-401, Chapter 8, as
guidance for training requirements.

8. Actual or Potential Compromise of Classified Information.

8.1. Definitions.

8.1.1. Security incidents as used in this TABI pertain to any security violation or infraction
as defined in EO 12958. Security incidents may be categorized as:

8.1.1.1. A security violation is any knowing, willful or negligent action that could result in:

8.1.1.1.1. Unauthorized disclosure of classified information.

8.1.1.1.2. Classifying or continued classification of information contrary to the requirements of
AFI 31-101 or its implementing directives.

8.1.1.1.3. Creation or continued special access program contrary to the requirements of EO
12958.

8.1.2. A security infraction as used in this instruction is any knowing, willful or negligent
action contrary to the requirements of EO 12958 that is not a security violation and may result
in:

8.1.2.1. A compromise of classified information occurs from unauthorized individuals
having access to classified information.

8.1.2.2. A probable compromise of classified information is determined when an investigating
official concludes that a compromise of classified information has more than likely occurred as
a result of a security incident.

8.2. Classification.
8.2.1. Classify security incident notices, appointment of inquiry official memorandums, and
security incident reports at the same level of classification as the information compromised
if they contain classified information. The documentation must remain classified until the
information has been retrieved and appropriately safeguarded. Do not classify
memorandums and reports pertaining to security incidents that have occurred in the Audio
Information Systems (AIS) environment when the system has been appropriately purged
and the correspondence does not contain other classified information.

8.2.2. Classify security incident notices, memorandums, and reports according to the
classified source from which they are derived. Refer to DoD 5200.1-R, Chapter 3.

8.2.3. Mark security incident notices, memorandums, and reports using derivative
classification procedures. Refer to DoD 5200.1-R, Chapter 5.
8.2.4. All security incident reports will, as a minimum, be marked “For Official Use Only.” Refer
to AFI 37-131, Freedom of Information Act Program of 1974.

8.3. Reporting, Inquiries and Investigations.

8.3.1. Security incidents will be reported to the ISPM, 821 ABG/ATO and respective unit
commander through the responsible unit security manager by the end of the duty day on
which the incident was discovered.

8.3.2. 821 ABG/ATO will assign a case number beginning with calendar year, base, and
sequential number for tracking purposes. 821 ABG/ATO will also provide technical
guidance and monitor the status of the security incident.

8.3.3. The responsible unit commander will appoint an E-7 or higher (in writing) as the inquiry
official to conduct a preliminary inquiry. Use the 821 SFS Security Incident &
Inquiry/Investigation Guide, Attachment 1.

8.3.4. The inquiry official will write a preliminary report using the format in the 821
ABG/ATO Security Incident & Inquiry/Investigation Guide, Attachment 2, and submit the
report to the appointing official through the ISPM within 30 duty days. The ISPM will provide
his/her concurrence/non-concurrence with the report and forward it to the appointing official
for action. NOTE: Prior to conducting interviews, inquiry/investigation officials will make
contact with the 21 SW Staff Judge Advocate for a briefing and guidance.
8.3.5. If the preliminary inquiry does not meet the criteria IAW AFI 31-401, paragraphs 8.8.4 -

8.8.4.3, then the appointing authority initiates a formal investigation.

8.3.6. The formal investigation will be conducted by the inquiry official if and when an
inquiry determined the need for an investigation. The inquiry results will become a part of
the investigation.
8.3.7. The inquiry/investigative official will route the completed report through the ISPM and 21
SW/SJA for review before forwarding it to the appointing authority for closing.
Attachment 1

GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 31-401, Information Security Program
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program
DoD 5200.1-PH, DoD Guide to Marking Classified Documents
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFTO 00-20F-2, Inspection and Preventive Maintenance Procedures for Security Type
Equipment
AFI 37-131, Freedom of Information Act Program of 1974
EO 12958
USSAN 1-69

Prescribed Forms

TVA 205-9, Classified Reproduction Authorized
TVA 31-501, Stop Do Not Use This Machine for Classified Reproduction
TVA 31-101, Your Security Manager

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
SF Form 701, Activity Security Checklist
SF Form 702, Security Container Check Sheet
SF 704, Secret Cover Sheet
SF 705, Confidential Cover Sheet
AFTO Form 36, Maintenance Record for Security Type Equipment
DD Form 2501, Courier Authorization

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB – Air Base
ABG – Air Base Group
AFI – Air Force Instruction
AFMAN – Air Force Manual
AFRC – Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS – Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSPC – Air Force Space Command
AFTO – Air Force Technical Order
AIS – Audio Information Systems
ATO – Antiterrorism Officer
CC - Commander
DoD – Department of Defense
EO – Executive Order
GC – Greenland Contractor
GSA – General Services Administration
HQ – Headquarters
IAW – In Accordance With
ISPM – Information Security Program Manager
JPAS – Joint Personnel Adjudication System
NAC – National Agency Check
NATO – North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NdA – Non Disclosure Agreement
OCA – Original Classification Authorities
OI – Operating Instructions
OPR – Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS – Records Disposition Schedule
SF – Security Forces
SFS – Security Forces Squadron
TABI – Thule Air Base Instruction
TDA – Thule Defense Area
TSCA – Top Secret Control Account
TSCO – Top Secret Control Office
U.S. – United States
USSAN – United States Security Authority, NATO

Attachment 2

EMERGENCY DESTRUCTION PROCEDURES

A1.1. General.

A1.1.1. Emergency protection, reduction, or destruction of classified information is necessary
during fires, natural disasters, or contingency operations, to maintain security and prevent
possible disclosure or seizure of information, which would result in damage to national
security. There are three phases of execution that could be implemented separately or
simultaneously.

A1.1.2. Depending on the situation, the installation commander, or commander or agency chief
of the unit owning the classified information implements this plan. The particular operation
employed depends on the situation. When the senior individual present in an area containing
classified information determines a sufficient threat exists to initiate any of the emergency
phases identified in this plan, that person must take immediate action to protect the classified
information and notify his or her chain-of-command immediately thereafter.

A1.2. Phase I: The following procedures will be initiated in the event of fire, natural disaster,
bomb threat, or other situations in which facilities holding classified information are evacuated
or damaged. Since these events generally occur without warning, the senior individual present
in any area that maintains classified will normally initiate execution of this phase.
A1.2.1. Return all classified not absolutely necessary for mission accomplishment to an
appropriate security container. If the situation warrants, consider moving classified holdings to
a more secure area or to another facility that is staffed on a 24-hour basis.

A1.2.2. If necessary for personnel safety, leave classified in the work area and evacuate
the facility.

A1.2.3. Immediately after evacuation, notify responding fire department and Security
Forces personnel if classified was left unsecured.

A1.2.4. When classified is left unsecured, place authorized personnel around the affected area
to prevent its removal. Maintain strict entry control and allow only responding emergency
personnel to enter.

A1.2.5. Ensure the unit security manager and/or a designated representative respond to the
scene to provide expertise for control and recovery of classified information or material.

A1.2.6. Once the affected area has been declared safe, custodians conduct a search to recover
all classified. Control entry into the affected area until all classified is recovered and secured.

A1.2.7. If needed, members of 821 ABG/ATO and GC (Locksmith) will conduct an inspection
of affected classified holding areas (vaults, secure rooms, safes, etc.), to determine if they still
meet structural requirements for protecting classified information/material. If classified holding
areas no longer meet structural requirements, relocate classified to an approved holding area.

A1.2.8. The responsible unit security manager will perform debriefings of all
uncleared personnel who entered and inadvertently viewed classified information.

A1.2.9. Any remaining classified that was partially destroyed during the incident will
be completely destroyed using approved methods.

A1.3. Phase II: This phase is normally initiated prior to serious incidents of civil disturbance
or the threat of terrorist or enemy action where prior warning is received giving sufficient time
to implement this phase. In the absence of an order by an appropriate commander, the senior
individual present may make the determination to initiate this phase. The following
procedures apply:

A1.3.1. Units will identify what classified information in their possession is or is not
absolutely essential for mission accomplishment.

A1.3.2. Destroy all non-mission essential classified information using the following
methods: Use routine destruction equipment within the unit (e.g., classified shredders).
A1.3.3. Holders of classified information, or a person designated by the unit commander will
ensure the unit’s classified information is destroyed.

A1.3.4. Prepare mission essential classified information for evacuation.

A1.4. Phase III: This phase is executed when an imminent threat exists that the installation
may be overrun or lost to an attacking enemy. Under these conditions, destruction of classified
must begin early enough to preclude loss or compromise. The effect of premature destruction
is considered inconsequential when measured against the possibility of loss or compromise of
the information or material. In the absence of an order by the implementing authority, the
senior individual present may make a common sense determination to begin emergency
destruction.

A1.4.1. Destroy the classified information using unit shredders or any means possible by
shredding, burning, pulping, melting, mutilating, or pulverizing. Ensure classified
information cannot be reconstructed after destruction.

A1.4.2. If the installation is being evacuated, units will, if needed, hand-carry mission-
essential classified information with them as they deploy. Each unit will be responsible for
destroying or transporting its classified. If personnel are not deploying from or evacuating the
installation, destroy all mission-essential classified information if there is the risk of
compromise and try to maintain a listing of destroyed material on AF Form 310.
