BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                        24-301

                                                                                 18 APRIL 2011

                                                                                  Transportation

                                                          CONTROL AND OPERATION OF
                                                    VEHICLES IN 76 MAINTENANCE WING
                                                                          FACILITIES

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 76 MXSG/PS                                                      Certified by: 76 MXSG/DD
Supersedes: TINKER AFBI 24-301, 22                                (Maj Gen Bruce A. Litchefield)
            April 2010                                                                  Pages: 5


This instruction establishes rules for control and operation of all vehicles within any 76
Maintenance Wing facility (emergency vehicles that are on call will be exempted). The
instruction applies to all personnel operating vehicles within any 76 Maintenance Wing facility
and implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground
Transportation Vehicles, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety
Program and Tinker Supplement (TS) 31-204 to AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic
Supervision. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command, then through the 76 Maintenance Wing (MXW) publications/forms managers. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

If this instruction requires the collection of information subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, a
Privacy Act Statement must be furnished prior to its collection. The maintenance, collection, use
or dissemination of any information herein (for a system of records) is subject to the Privacy Act
of 1974 and is authorized under 10 U.S.C.8012, unless otherwise specified.
 2                                                         TINKER AFBI 24-301 18 APRIL 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and should be reviewed in its entirety. Functional address
symbols are updated and several procedural changes, including speed-detecting devices, seat belt
usage, vehicle parking and operation and privately owned transportation.
1. Specific Guidelines.
     1.1. Maximum speed is 5 miles per hour (MPH) for all vehicular traffic; this includes trucks,
     vans, low speed vehicles (LSV), other government motor vehicle conveyances (OGMVC),
     bicycles, tricycles, tugs and forklifts. LSVs are micro-mini vans/trucks; OGMVCs are self-
     propelled assets providing a basic transportation capability (golf cars, all-terrain vehicles,
     quad-runners, etc.).
        1.1.1. Individuals should report operators not heeding speed limits or any other driving
        infractions by providing the vehicle tag number and or other designating information to
        the Depot Maintenance Activity Group Vehicle Control Officer (DMAG VCO) in the
        76th Maintenance Support group (76 MXSG).
     1.2. Vehicles will not be placed in motion until driver and all passengers have fastened their
     seat belts; OGMVCs not equipped with seat belts will not be placed in motion until all
     passengers are seated with arms and legs within the vehicle.
     1.3. Vehicles delivering or picking up material should be the only vehicles entering any
     Tinker maintenance facility and are to exit the building as soon as the load has been delivered
     or picked up. There will be no temporary parking in the aisles except for vehicles engaged in
     pick-up and delivery. Anytime a vehicle is left unattended, the operator will ensure the
     vehicle is clear of the traffic aisle; the engine turned off, parking brakes set, and keys left in
     the ignition in case of emergency.
        1.3.1. Delivery trucks such as UPS, FedEX, and etc. are not authorized to enter the
        building to make deliveries and pickups.
        1.3.2. Maintenance crews may keep their vehicle on site for the duration of the task
        being preformed.
     1.4. Vehicles transporting personnel only will not enter the building. Personnel are to be
     dropped off at the nearest outside door. The only exception will be staff cars on official
     business and other vehicles transporting distinguished visitors.
     1.5. If possible headlights must be turned off in buildings and if equipped with flashers, the
     flashers must be visible and in use.
     1.6. Government and contractor’s specialized pieces of equipment (air compressors, welders,
     etc.) will be permitted on-the-job parking while equipment is in use. Operation of such
     equipment will be in accordance with applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations
     to include health, fire department, safety, and environmental regulations.
     1.7. Contractor vehicles are only authorized in building only if they are essential to the work
     being performed (e.g. dump trucks, cement mixers, specialty vehicles, etc.), or are required to
     tow/set up equipment outlined in para 1.6. Vehicles not essential to the work being
     performed are required to be parked outside buildings in approved/marked parking areas.
     Contractor vehicles that are operated inside buildings shall be identified on both driver and
TINKER AFBI 24-301 18 APRIL 2011                                                               3


   passenger sided by permanent or magnetic signage that includes company name, address, and
   phone number. Privately owned vehicles (POV) are not allowed inside buildings.
   1.8. Vehicles are to be operated for official business only. Vehicles will not be allowed to
   transport personnel to building restaurants, snack bars, etc.
   1.9. All conveyances are required to adhere to and observe all traffic control indicators,
   devices and signs.
2. Air Quality in Buildings.
   2.1. Vehicles entering any Tinker maintenance facility to conduct official business should be
   fueled by electricity, compressed natural gas, or liquefied petroleum gas. Operation of
   gasoline/diesel-powered vehicles shall be kept to a minimum.
   2.2. No vehicle shall be left idling for any reason.
3. Safety Precautions.
   3.1. Vehicles will not be parked in a manner that would create a safety/hazard by obstructing
   fire lanes or other channels of traffic.
   3.2. Within any Tinker maintenance facility, flatbed cargo trailers, e.g., four-wheel flatbed
   warehouse trailers, four-wheel baggage trailers or modified flatbed cargo trailers will not be
   used for long-term storage or as a long-term holding area for materials (except in aircraft
   docks 1-12 of Bldg. 3001). Items on a moving flatbed trailer will be properly secured to
   avoid falling or slipping onto the floor.
   3.3. No more than three trailers, loaded or empty will be pulled in the building.
   3.4. Excessive mud or snow will be removed from vehicles before entering the building.
   3.5. Extreme care will be exercised to avoid accidents when entering or leaving the building.
   3.6. Portable headphones, earphones, or similar devices will not be used while operating a
   motor vehicle, LSV, OGMVC, bicycle or tricycle. Cell phone devices must be operated with
   a hands-free accessory.
   3.7. Vehicle operators will honk their horn (if so equipped) prior to entering or exiting
   vehicle doors.
4. Fire and Pedestrian Lanes. Fire and pedestrian lanes have been established to eliminate fire
and traffic hazards; all pedestrians and vehicle operators will observe lanes. All materials or
items being delivered or picked up in loading/off-loading zones next to these lanes will be
moved as soon as possible to avoid obstruction. Fire and pedestrian lanes will not be used by
shops to store parts, end items, etc.
5. Electric/Gas Cars and Bicycles. LSVs, OGMVCs and bicycles must follow all traffic rules
that apply to the operation of motor vehicles, including stop signs and speed limits.
   5.1. Only government and contractor-owned bicycles and tricycles are permitted in the
   building.
   5.2. Vehicles will not be operated in any aisle posted as “Pedestrian Only.”
   5.3. Privately-owned skateboards, scooters, bicycles, etc., are prohibited from being operated
   inside the building.
 4                                                      TINKER AFBI 24-301 18 APRIL 2011


     5.4. Personnel operating bicycles in building maintenance facilities are not required to wear
     bicycle helmets.
     5.5. Personnel operating Segways must wear appropriate helmet and comply with motor
     vehicle regulations.
6. Enforcement of this Instruction. Enforcement will be conducted pursuant to the guidelines
provided in the applicable portions of AFI 31-204_TinkerAFB.
7. Periodic Checks. DMAG VCO is authorized to conduct periodic checks of vehicular
equipment listed in this instruction for safety, emissions, and speed of operation.

8. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

8.1. Prescribed Forms:

None

8.2. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             ROBERT D. LABRUTTA, Colonel USAF
                                             Commander
TINKER AFBI 24-301 18 APRIL 2011                                                    5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 1 October 1995
AFPD 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground Transportation Vehicles, 6 September 2006
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 14 July 2000
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
TS 31-204 to AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 17 May 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
76 MXSG—Maintenance Support Group
76 MXSG/PS—Production Support Division
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
DMAG VCO—Depot Maintenance Activity Group Vehicle Control Officer
LSV—Low Speed Vehicles
MPH—Miles Per Hour
MXW—Maintenance Support Wing
OGMVC—Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TS—Tinker Supplement
