BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                                           62-603

                                                                                                                     18 APRIL 2012

                                                                                                 Developmental Engineering

                                                                              MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT AND
                                                                           SUBSYSTEMS INTEGRITY PROGRAM
                                                                                                 (MECSIP)

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: OC-ALC/ENSP                                                                                  Certified by: OC-ALC/ENS
                                                                                                         (Kristian A. Olivero)
                                                                                                                    Pages: 23



This Instruction establishes standard procedures for establishing and maintaining a Mechanical
Equipment and Subsystems Integrity Program (MECSIP) for Tinker AFB. This initial
instruction has been developed to provide a standardized MECSIP process consistent with Air
Force policy for Tinker AFB managed weapon systems and their components. It does not apply
to the Air Force reserve and Air National guard units, except where noted otherwise. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of reference and supporting information. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records
created as a result of the process prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force         Records          Disposition         Schedule          (RDS)         located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. The use of the name or mark of any
specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not
imply endorsement by the Air Force. This is a new document and should be reviewed in its
entirety.



       1.      OVERVIEW ..........................................................................................................   2
       2.      ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. ....................................................................                      2
       3.      PROCESS STEPS (see Process Flowchart in Attachment 3). ...............................                                5
 2                                                                                    TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012


        4.      0. ............................................................................................................................    8
Table 4.1.      Sample Engineering Process Metrics .....................................................................                           9
Table 4.2.      Sample Fleet Health Metrics ..................................................................................                    13
Figure 4.1.     Sample MECSIP Engineering Process Scores .......................................................                                  14
Figure 4.2.     Sample MECSIP Fleet Health Scores ....................................................................                            15
Figure 4.3.     Summary Overall MECSIP Metrics Summary ......................................................                                     15

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                    17

Attachment 2—MECSIP MASTER PLAN TEMPLATE                                                                                                          21

Attachment 3—PROCESS FLOW FOR MECSIP FOR LEGACY WEAPON SYSTEMS                                                                                    22


1. OVERVIEW
     1.1. A review of mishap information shows that a significant percent of mishaps occur as a
     result of a mechanical systems component failure. MECSIP is designed to maintain the
     physical and functional integrity (i.e., safety, durability, reliability and performance) of
     aircraft mechanical elements and systems. The Department of Defense has published MIL-
     STD-1798 as a directive for developing and executing an aircraft-specific MECSIP Master
     Plan. MECSIP is required in accordance with AFMCI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems
     Engineering.
     1.2. This instruction requires the development and implementation of a MECSIP Master
     Plan for assigned legacy airframes. The purpose of the MECSIP Master Plan is to describe a
     systematic process for identifying the necessary tasks and objectives for maintaining and
     sustaining weapon system mechanical systems, including the ground support equipment
     required for maintenance of MECSIP equipment.
     1.3. Modifications to address evolving mission requirements, correct safety dificiencies
     and/or to improve the overall reliability, maintainability, and sustainability (RM&S) of
     weapon systems are common activities during the sustainment phase. Each of these
     modification programs is essentially a small development/integration program and the
     systems engineering discipline applied during tasks I through IV of MECSIP apply. The
     engineering organization managing the modification shall follow all applicable sections of
     this MIL-STD-1798 Tasks I through IV in the development of the modification.
     1.4. The MECSIP objectives include maximizing safety and aircraft availability, and moving
     unscheduled maintenance to scheduled maintenance, when determined to be feasible,
     achievable, and cost-effective.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
     2.1. The Air Logistics Center (ALC) Commander, through the Center Level Technical
     Authority, for aircraft programs in the sustainment phase, will:
        2.1.1. Ensure that each Single Manager (SM) is maintaining and updating an effective
        MECSIP.
TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012                                                              3


     2.1.2. Ensure aircraft SMs are executing the MECSIP requirements in a timely manner
     as an integral part of the sustainment process.
     2.1.3. Ensure 76 MXW is collecting and reporting maintenance data for the weapon
     systems they maintain that support the evaluation of each aircraft, in accordance with
     (IAW) the depot maintenance work specification.
  2.2. The ALC EN Director will:
     2.2.1. Appoint a qualified engineer to serve as the MECSIP Focal Point for the center
     from the center EN office.
        2.2.1.1. The Center MECSIP Focal Point shall:
            2.2.1.1.1. Provide guidance and assistance to MECSIP Managers regarding
            technical and programmatic issues as requested.
            2.2.1.1.2. Conduct periodic meetings to ensure best practices, new technologies
            and new or changing requirements are well understood and available for
            individual MECSIP programs to adopt and assess as needed. One of these
            meetings will occur within 60 days following the annual ASC/EN review.
            2.2.1.1.3. Assist with Equipment Service Life assessments, recertification efforts,
            risk assessments and program health assessments as requested by individual
            MECSIP Managers.
            2.2.1.1.4. Represent Center MECSIP interests and concerns to ASC/EN and
            AFMC/EN regarding policy, technical needs and special assistance requests by
            MECSIP Managers.
            2.2.1.1.5. Perform an annual review of MECSIPs for locally managed aircraft.
            This review may be in conjunction with the annual ASC/EN review.
            2.2.1.1.6. Facilitate ASC/EN MECSIP reviews and special evaluations and
            participate on the MECSIP Team as requested.
            2.2.1.1.7. Serve as a focal point and coordinator with NDI, Corrosion and
            Composite Program Managers regarding program health and metrics in support of
            MECSIP.
            2.2.1.1.8. Recommend training and information exchanges which will enhance
            and ensure a strong MECSIP community is achieved and maintained.
            2.2.1.1.9. Communicate with other Centers, AFGLSC and AFRL regarding
            MECSIP implementation strategies, analysis methods and development efforts
            ensuring Center MECSIP Managers are afforded the opportunities to succeed.
            2.2.1.1.10. Establish and maintain a SharePoint site Center repository for
            MECSIP related information including a current listing of MECSIP managers.
     2.2.2. Provide engineering and technical support to MECSIP Managers including data
     collection, analysis, reporting, and consultation through Reliability and Maintability
     Information System (REMIS/G099), Joint Deficiency Reporting System (JDRS) and
     other applicable maintenance data collection systems. Compile and report MECSIP
4                                                      TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012


       usage data capture rates biannually and provide to supported MECSIP Managers, Center
       MECSIP Focal Points and ASC/EN.
    2.3. The Director of Engineering shall:
       2.3.1. Ensure organizational implementation and standardization of the MECSIP Process
       in accordance with MIL-STD-1798.
       2.3.2. Establish MECSIP personnel qualification requirements and identify training
       requirements.
       2.3.3. Review and track overall MECSIP metrics at least annually.
    2.3.4. Advocate prudent MIL-STD-1798 requirements.
       2.3.4.1. Support and assist Single Managers in obtaining resources for execution of their
       MECSIP.
    2.4. The System Program Manager (SPM) shall:
       2.4.1. Review and approve the weapon system MECSIP Master Plan.
       2.4.2. Chair a Program Review of MECSIP at least annually.
       2.4.2.1. Work with MAJCOM’s and Depot to implement validated MECSIP generated
       requirements and recommendations.
       2.4.3. Provide funding, manning and other required resources necessary to implement
       and maintain MECSIP requirements as defined in the Master Plan.
    2.5. The Chief Engineer shall:
       2.5.1. Review and approve the weapon system MECSIP Master Plan.
       2.5.2. Assign a qualified MECSIP manager for applicable USAF weapon system(s) and
       ensure Center EN is notified of changes in manager assignments.
       2.5.3. Work with the MECSIP Manager to ensure MECSIP is developed and executed in
       accordance with the MECSIP Master Plan.
       2.5.4. Assist in the review, prioritization and implementation of MECSIP generated
       requirements and recommendations.
       2.5.5. Provide recommendations and updates to the SPM regarding MECSIP issues.
       2.5.6. Ensure applicable MECSIP requirements are included in new/modified system
       procurements.
       2.5.7. Review MECSIP metrics and provide to the Director of Engineering at least
       annually. Ensure any significant trends or issues are identified.
    2.5.8. Coordinate MECSIP responsibilities and requirements with cognizant engineering
    authority for aircraft components, parts and support equipment as applicable.
       2.5.9. Support justification and approval of Consolidated Sustainment Activity Group
       (CSAG) and General Support Division (GSD) budget requests for funding of MECSIP
       identified projects identified by the SM.
    2.6. The Mechanical Systems Supervisor/Lead Engineer shall:
TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012                                                          5


      2.6.1. Review and coordinate on MECSIP Master Plan.
      2.6.2. Ensure the MECSIP Manager coordinates on Single Point Failure issues.
      2.6.3. Coordinate with MECSIP Manager to review MECSIP metrics annually and
      identify trends and issues.
      2.6.4. Support MECSIP Manager in the review, validation and prioritization of MECSIP-
      generated projects and initiatives.
      2.6.5. Support MECSIP Manager in the execution of the Master Plan and validated
      MECSIP projects.
   2.7. The MECSIP Manager shall (note: these tasks may be delegated, but the MECSIP
   Manager maintains overall responsibility):
      2.7.1. Develop and annually update a MECSIP Master Plan to implement this Operating
      Instruction.
      2.7.2. Identify and present to the SPM the resources required to execute the MECSIP
      Master Plan at least annually.
      2.7.3. Schedule and conduct a Program Review providing MECSIP metrics, status and
      recommended improvements to mechanical systems at least annually to the SPM and
      Chief Engineer.
      2.7.4. Establish and monitor a component reliability and maintainability tracking
      program.
          2.7.4.1. Identify and prioritize system and component level MECSIP projects.
          2.7.4.2. Coordinate with the Supply Chain Management Engineering Authority for
          funding and execution of MECSIP projects involving components managed outside
          of the weapon system.
      2.7.5. Implement and execute FMECAs, System/Subsystem Hazard Analyses (S/SHAs)
      and risk management processes as required.
      2.7.6. Ensure required preventive maintenance tasks are developed, implemented and
      maintained.
      2.7.7. Implement a recommendation tracking program for the purpose of tracking
      recommendations.
   2.8. Supply Chain Management engineering authority shall:
      2.8.1. Accomplish MECSIP requirements as coordinated with the weapon system Chief
      Engineer.
      2.8.2. Notify MECSIP manager of significant issues and trends associated with MECSIP
      related items.
3. PROCESS STEPS (see Process Flowchart in Attachment 3).
   3.1. MECSIP Master Plan. The MECSIP Master Plan defines sustainment tasks. Each
   weapon system program office shall develop and execute a MECSIP Master Plan that strives
   to meet all the requirements of MIL-STD-1798 (see Attachment 2). The Master Plan and
6                                                        TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012


    products generated from execution of the plan shall be stored electronically in a dedicated
    MECSIP repository. The Master Plan shall be updated at least annually. For legacy systems
    the plan may be tailored to meet the weapon systems unique requirements. The defined
    approach for tailoring will be contained in the weapon system specific MECSIP Master Plan.
    As a minimum, the following elements shall be defined in the Master Plan:
       3.1.1. Component Classification and Management. Components shall be classified and
       CSIs controlled as follows.
           3.1.1.1. Component Classifications. Each weapon system shall classify components
           based on FMECAs and S/SHAs as required by paragraph 5.2.4 of MIL-STD-1798. A
           phased classification approach based on criticality is acceptable. A practical
           approach for legacy systems that did not have FMECAs and S/SHA accomplished
           during acquisition is to make a preliminary component criticality classification based
           on available data and experience. Classification can then be verified using FMECAS
           and S/SHAs using the same prioritization approach as was used during initial
           classification.
           3.1.1.2. Management of Critical Safety Items. Apply controls based on risk
           assessments to safety critical components to preclude critical safety in-flight failures.
           The safety prioritization methodology shall be based on AWB-013A. For the
           purposes of this OI and its implementation, Critical Safety Item (CSI) is the same
           definition as in AFI 20-106. Determine the demonstrated reliability for each critical
           safety component and establish the maintenance (inspection or replacement) intervals
           that result in an accepted probability of failure per flight hour. Work with component
           Engineering Service Authority (ESA) to ensure all overhaul contracts for CSIs restore
           the item to a like new condition. All changes to the components, processes and/or
           sources for fabrication or repair of critical safety components will be reviewed to
           verify integrity is maintained.
       3.1.2. FMECAs and S/SHAs. FMECAs and S/SHAs shall be developed and maintained
       as defined in MIL-STD-1798 Paragraph 5.2.4. In accordance with MIL-STD-1798,
       FMECAs and S/SHAs are built during acquisition as a basis for component criticality
       classification. A practical approach for legacy systems that did not have FMECAs and
       S/SHAs accomplished during acquisition is to make a preliminary component criticality
       classification based on available data and experience. In this approach, FMECAs and
       S/SHAs may be budgeted for and built in a phased approach with priority based on
       component criticality. Ensure FMECAs and S/SHAs are updated for modification
       programs.
       3.1.3. Reliability Analysis Team (RAT). A RAT shall be established as defined in MIL-
       STD-1798 Paragraph B.4.1.1.1.1. The RAT shall analyze field reliability data and make
       recommendations to improve component/system safety and reliability, and aircraft
       availability. Data analysis should include validation of data fidelity and accuracy. This is
       accomplished by a qualified reliability analysis team (system engineers, safety, reliability
       and maintainability, logistics, etc.) to perform the monitoring and analytical activity.
       3.1.4. Reliability Analysis Functional Systems Integrated Database. Create a functional
       system reliability analysis program which uses a Functional Systems Integrated Database
       (FSID) to perform analysis in accordance with MIL-STD-1798 Paragraph B.4.1.1.2 and
TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012                                                                 7


       sub-Paragraphs.      Define and integrate programs, data analysis/data capture,
       communication, tracking, identification/monitoring activity and health assessments. The
       FSID shall, at a minimum:
Use system reliability analysis program results to develop recommendations for improvement to
mechanical components and systems reliability and maintainability.
Track recommendation status.
       3.1.4.1. Track implemented improvements to verify effectiveness.
       3.1.5. Maintenance Data/T.O.s/WUC Manual Reviews. Develop and review/update
       maintenance data and technical orders in accordance with MIL-STD-1798 Paragraphs
       B.4.1.1.2.4 through B.4.1.1.2.8 and B.4.1.1.2.12. For new aircraft and modification
       programs, ensure the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) required maintenance
       actions are incorporated in T.O.s; for legacy aircraft the maintenance program shall be
       periodically reviewed/updated using analysis/experience. Inspections, servicing, time
       change requirements and on and off-equipment T.O. procedures for MECSIP equipment
       shall be accounted for in field and depot maintenance/work planning systems.
       3.1.6. Operational Usage. Monitor and periodically reevaluate operational usage to
       ensure environmental and operational usage assumptions remain valid for safety and
       mission critical components in accordance with MIL-STD-1798 Paragraph 5.5.4.1.
       Ensure inspection intervals remain adequate, and update T.O. inspection/replacement
       requirements accordingly. Evaluate reliability changes which could be a leading
       indicator of changes in the operational environment.
       3.1.7. Analytical Condition Inspections (ACI). Accomplish ACIs to identify otherwise
       undetected defects, deteriorating conditions, corrosion, fatigue, overstress, and other
       deficiencies on aircraft mechanical systems in accordance with MIL-STD-1798
       Paragraph B.4.1.1.1.3.1.3. Use the results of ACIs to make recommendations for
       corrective actions (i.e. T.O. changes, funding requests, hardware improvement programs
       initiated, etc.).
       3.1.8. Identify MECSIP Equipment-Caused Class A and B Mishaps. Identify Class A
       and B mishaps for which MECSIP equipment was determined to be causal by Safety
       Investigation Board (SIB). Track Class A and B mishaps to identify trends caused by
       MECSIP equipment failure. For each Class A and B mishap maintain the date of
       occurrence and the component or system identified as the primary cause. Review
       FMECA and S/SHA for this equipment and similar equipment. This requirement may
       already be satisfied by an existing System Safety program. To prevent duplication of
       effort, coordinate with the System Safety Manager/Group. Perform necessary risk
       assessments and recommend mitigation actions as appropriate.
       3.1.9. Resources. Identify dedicated and shared resources required to manage and
       execute the weapon system tailored MECSIP in accordance with the Master Plan. These
       resources shall include a MECSIP Manager (whose primary responsibility is the MECSIP
       program), supporting technical staff and funding for tools and contractor support.
       Recognized best practices are to have a dedicated full time MECSIP manager and a must
       pay funding line for this program in the weapon systems recurring budget.
 8                                                         TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012


        3.1.10. Risk Assessment, Mitigation or Acceptance. Monitor and assess risks associated
        with MECSIP equipment in accordance with MIL-STD-1798 Paragraph 5.2.2.2. Include
        risks identified in S/SHA and Mishap reports. This requirement may already be satisfied
        by an existing System Safety program. To prevent duplication of effort, coordinate with
        the System Safety Manager/Group. Ensure risk acceptance is documented at the
        appropriate level. Make recommendations for corrective actions for risks requiring
        mitigation.
        3.1.11. Cost of Unreliability Model. Develop and implement a cost of unreliability
        model in accordance with MIL-STD-1798 Paragraph B.4.1.1.2.18. Identify the cost of
        unreliability in terms of annual dollar costs, Maintenance Man-Hours (MMH), Non-
        Mission Capable (NMC) time, and part replacement/repair/overhaul costs. Use the cost
        of unreliability model to assist with prioritization, and to justify candidate RM&S actions.
        This requirement may be met by using the template provided in the referenced paragraph
        above or may already be satisfied by an existing Aircraft Availability Improvement
        Program (AAIP). To prevent duplication of effort, coordinate activities with AAIP
        program manager.
        3.1.12. Deficiency Report (DR) Tracking. Monitor and assess MECSIP equipment DRs
        for safety and mission-critical components (reference MIL-STD-1798 Paragraph 5.5.1.5).
        This requirement may already be satisfied by an existing Quality Program. To prevent
        duplication of effort, coordinate with the Quality Manager. As part of the DR process,
        the MECSIP manager shall gernerate Material Improvement Projects (MIP) as required
        by T.O. 00-35D-54.
4. 0. Metrics.
     4.1. Maintain and Track Risk Status & Metrics. The MECSIP Manager shall track the status
     and maintain MECSIP metrics. The metrics will be compiled at least annually to identify
     trends and issues. Selected metrics will be tracked for all on-aircraft mechanical systems,
     excluding items which have an independent MECSIP program (e.g., engines). 2011 metrics
     are provided in the tables and figures below, as an example. Current metrics are located on
     the         MECSIP            SharePoint         at      the         following         link:
     https://cs.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/AeroEngDisciplines/IntegrityPrgm/MECSIP/default.aspx
     4.2. Corrective Actions. Programs will analyze each metric and identify what action would
     be required to move to Green rating. This analysis will:
        4.2.1. Identify the funding required by year and the time to go green
        4.2.2. Identify if activity is funded or requires funds
        4.2.3. Be used as input to Central Asset Management (CAM) process
     4.3. Scoring of Review:
        4.3.1. Engineering Process (EP)
            4.3.1.1. A weighted average approach is used
            4.3.1.2. If any of the safety critical questions (questions 2, 3 or 5) are RED, then EP
            cannot be GREEN
            4.3.1.3. Example MECSIP Engineering Process Scores chart is shown in Figure 4.1.
TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012                                                                     9


       4.3.2. Fleet Health (FH)
            4.3.2.1. The score equals the most adverse score on any of the three criteria
            4.3.2.2. Example MECSIP Fleet Health Scores chart is shown in Figure 4.2.
       4.3.3. Sample MECSIP Metrics Summary is shown in Figure 4.2.

Table 4.1. Sample Engineering Process Metrics
                   Metric                                  Scoring                          Artifacts
MECSIP Master Plan being executed.             G = Both criteria complete*      • Copy of MECSIP Master
Criteria:                                      Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial** Plan and evidence that it is
                                                                                actively used
                                               on both criteria
1. MECSIP Master Plan exists that
defines sustainment tasks                      R = 0 of 2 criteria
2. MECSIP Master Plan is updated and
current; evidence exists that demonstrates
program is actively using plan.
All components classified for criticality?     G = Both criteria                    1. Listing of parts
                                                                                       showing they are
Criteria:                                      Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial
                                                                                       classified for
1. Components classified for criticality and   on both criteria                        criticality – emphasis
classification documented.                     R = 0 of 2 criteria                     on safety critical
2. For Safety Critical components,                                                     parts
appropriate controls (damage tolerance                                              2. Documentation
and/or risk based approach) are in place                                               showing controls are
and are being properly executed.                                                       implemented for
                                                                                       safety critical parts

FMECAs and S/SHAs Available and                G = Both criteria                • FMECAs and S/SHAs
Updated                                                                         available for sample
                                               Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial
                                                                                subsystems (Flight Controls,
Criteria:                                      on both criteria                 Fuel & Electric Power)
1. Failure Mode Effects and Criticality        R = 0 of 2 criteria              • Show updated FMECAs and
Analysis Reports + Subsystem Hazard                                             S/SHAs for three most recent mods
Analysis Reports available for all MECSIP
Subsystems.
2. The program demonstrates that the
FMECAs and S/SHAs were updated for
each of the most recent three modification
programs.
Reliability Analysis Team (RAT)                G = Both criteria                1.     Provide process
actively functioning                                                            guiding RAT and identify
                                               Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial
                                                                                RAT team members
Criteria:                                      on both criteria
                                                                                2.Show RAT products
1. Reliability Analysis Team is fully          R = 0 of 2 criteria
staffed and trained to perform the
10                                                            TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012


                    Metric                                    Scoring                           Artifacts
monitoring and analytical activity defined
in MIL-STD-1798.
2. Reliability Analysis Team is analyzing
field reliability data and producing reports
used to improve component safety,
reliability, aircraft availability and identify
preventative maintenance actions.
OEM Data/T.O.s/WUC Manual                         G = Both criteria                   1.      T.O.s updated with
Reviewed                                                                                MECSIP recommended
                                                  Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial
                                                                                        actions
Criteria:                                         on both criteria
1. All OEM required maintenance actions           R = 0 of 2 criteria
are incorporated in TOs
2. All T.O. equipment inspection
requirements and all time change items are
accounted for in field and depot
maintenance/work planning systems; all on
and off-equipment T.O. procedures have
been written and historical records are in
use for all components.
Functional Systems Integrated Database            G = Both criteria                   1.      Show product of data
in place                                                                              analysis and examples where
                                                  Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial
                                                                                      component repair data was
Criteria:                                         on both criteria                    used to enhance R&M of
1. The programs, data analysis/data               R = 0 of 2 criteria                 equipment
capture, communication, tracking,
identification/monitoring activity, and
health assessments are being performed as
defined.
2. Component repairs and overhauls are
being monitored using the FSID database.
The results are being utilized to improve
mechanical system reliability and aircraft
availability while controlling or reducing
maintenance costs.
Usage data is being collected                     G = Both criteria                   2. Show reports etc which
                                                                                      document that available
Criteria:                                         Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial on
                                                                                      usage data was collected &
                                                  both criteria
1. Where practical review usage data                                                  analyzed. Show recent T.O.
(operational and/or maintenance) of safety        R = 0 of 2 criteria                 changes driven by usage
and mission critical components are                                                   analysis
monitored and periodically reevaluated to
determine if inspection/life intervals
must/can be changed.
TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012                                                                     11


                  Metric                                  Scoring                            Artifacts
2. The evaluation of available usage data
for components is occurring on a timely
basis and the results directly feed
maintenance data bases/T.O.s for
component inspection and replacement.
Analytical Condition Inspections being        G = Both criteria                   • Show Tech Data examples
accomplished                                                                      of ACI’s
                                              Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial on
Criteria:                                     both criteria                       • Identify examples where
                                                                                  ACI’s have resulted in action
1. ACIs are being routinely accomplished      R = 0 of 2 criteria
to find hidden defects, deteriorating
conditions, corrosion, fatigue, overstress,
and other deficiencies in aircraft
mechanical systems.
2. Evidence exists that the ACIs have
resulted in some corrective actions (e.g.,
T.O. changes, funding requests, hardware
improvement programs initiated, etc.).
MECSIP equipment-caused Class A               G = Both criteria                   • Show documentation
mishaps identified                                                                showing analysis of all Class
                                              Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial on
                                              both criteria                       A mishaps with component
Criteria:
                                                                                  or system identified as the
1. Track the number of Class A mishaps        R = 0 of 2 criteria                 primary cause
caused by MECSIP equipment.
2. Also, for each Class A mishap
maintain date of occurrence and the
component or system identified as the
primary cause.
Adequate resources assigned to execute        G = Both criteria                   1. MECSIP Manager assigned
MECSIP Program                                Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial on   2. Resources identified in
Criteria:                                     both criteria                       Master Plan available
1. Is managing the MECSIP Program the         R = 0 of 2 criteria
primary duty (not a secondary duty) of the
MECSIP Manager?
2. Are adequate resources available to
execute the MECSIP Program?
Program is actively pursuing Risk             Scoring:                            1. Provide MECSIP
Assessment and Risk Mitigation or Risk                                            equipment Medium, Serious
                                              G = Both criteria
Acceptance at the appropriate level                                               & High Risks
                                              Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial on
Criteria:                                                                         2. Show documentation of
                                              both criteria                       risk acceptance of each
1. The program has identified and                                                 Serious or High risk
                                              R = 0 of 2 criteria
quantified (via MIL-STD-882 RHI) all
12                                                         TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012


                   Metric                                  Scoring                           Artifacts
MECSIP Equipment risks in the Medium,
Serious and High Risk Categories. List
includes risks identified in both the S/SHA
reports and Mishap Reports.
2. The program has risk acceptance
documented at the appropriate level for
each of these risks and is pursuing
corrective actions for those risks not
accepted.
Review / Validate Cost of Unreliability        G = Both criteria                   • Provide a cost of
Model                                                                              unreliability model
                                               Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial on
Criteria:                                      both criteria                       • Show evidence that the cost
                                                                                   of unreliability model is an
1. The program has a tailored model in         R = 0 of 2 criteria                 input to prioritization of
place which identifies the cost of                                                 improvement candidates
unreliability in terms of $/Yr, MMH, NMC
time, & part replacement/repair/overhaul
costs.
2. Evidence exists that the program is
actively using a cost of unreliability model
to assist with prioritizing candidate R&M
improvements.




Track DRs.                                     G = Both criteria                   • Show evidence that the
                                                                                   DRs are being used to
Criteria:                                      Y = 1 of 2 criteria or Partial on
                                                                                   identify MECSIP trends.
                                               both criteria
     1. Track the date DR submitted and
        the component or system                R = 0 of 2 criteria
        identified.
     2. Evidence exists that the DR
        tracking program is actively being
        used to identify bad MECSIP
        ―actors‖

       4.3.4. Partial:
            4.3.4.1. Complete is more than 90 percent complete
            4.3.4.2. Partial is more than 50 percent complete
TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012                                                                   13


Table 4.2. Sample Fleet Health Metrics
                 Metric                                 Scoring                             Artifact’s
 Life Limits of Safety Critical        G = No safety critical parts, or parts      • Tech Data supporting
 Parts Addressed                       have infinite life with                     scheduled removal of life
                                       inspection/repair, or all aircraft          limited equipment is
 Criteria:
                                       currently less than defined life limits     actively used
 1. Are there Safety Critical          with funded plan in place to
 MECSIP Subsystems or                  overhaul/replace life limited safety
 Components with defined life limits critical MECSIP parts which reach
 and what percentage of the fleet      their life limit within the FYDP .
 currently exceeds these life limits?
                                       Y = Some aircraft will experience
 2. Is there a funded plan in-place to Safety Critical MECSIP parts which
 overhaul or replace these             exceed their life limit during the
 subsystems and/or components          FYDP, without a funded plan to
 when their life is consumed?          implement corrective action.
                                        R = Unknown life capability of
                                        Safety Critical MECSIP parts, or any
                                        safety critical MECSIP parts already
                                        exceed their life limit.


 Mission Capable Contribution           G = MECSIP equipment contributes           1. Tech Data showing
                                        less than 40 percent of permissible Not    scheduled removal of life
 Criteria:
                                        Mission Capable (NMC) time per             limited equipment
 What is the Not Mission Capable        Aircraft Availability Metrics*.
 Rate contribution of MECSIP
                                        Y = MECSIP equipment contributes
 equipment?
                                        between 40 and 60 percent of
                                        permissible NMC time per Aircraft
                                        Availability Metrics.
                                        R = MECSIP equipment contributes
                                        more than 60 percent of permissible
                                        NMC time per Aircraft Availability
                                        Metrics.


                                        * Permissible NMC time = (1 –
                                        Aircraft Availability Standard) in Chief
                                        of Staff USAF Weapon System
                                        Review briefing (different for each
                                        aircraft fleet)
 Mission Performance                    G = No significant mission restriction     • TCTOs against MECSIP
                                        imposed as a result of any component       equipment which impact mission
 Criteria:
                                        and/or subsystem covered by MECSIP         capability
 What (if any) restrictions are         on any system requirement.                 • -1 T.O. restrictions against the
 14                                                                                 TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012


                        Metric                                                   Scoring                     Artifact’s
currently in place as a result of                           Y = Significant mission restriction      fleet because of MECSIP
MECSIP Equipment which                                      imposed as a result of a component       equipment.
negatively impact the ability to                            and/or subsystem covered by MECSIP.
satisfy the user’s mission
                                                            R = Not able to accomplish a primary
requirements?
                                                            mission as a direct result of a
                                                            component and/or subsystem covered
                                                            by MECSIP.


Figure 4.1. Sample MECSIP Engineering Process Scores

                    EP Sustainment Element                             PRGM X PRGM Y PRGM Z

                MECSIP Process Roll-Up Score                             Y     G      Y
 MECSIP Master Plan being executed                                       Y      G      Y
 All components have been classified for criticality                     R      Y      Y
 FMECAs and SSHAs are available and continuously updated                 Y      G      Y
 Reliability Analysis Team actively functioning                          G      G      R
 OEM Data / T.O.s / WUC manual reviewed                                  G      Y      Y
 Functional Systems Integrated Database (FSID) in place                  G      Y      R
 Operational usage data is being collected                               Y      G      R
 Preventive maintenance actions defined                                  G      G      Y
 Analytical Condition Inspections being accomplished                     G      G      G
 MECSIP equipment-caused Class A mishaps identified                      G      G      G
 Adequate resources assigned to execute MECSIP                           G      G      Y
 Program is actively pursuing Risk Assessment and Risk Mitigation or
 Risk Acceptance at the appropriate level.                               G      Y      R
 Review / validate Cost of Unreliability Model                           R      G      R
                                                                                        1
TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012                                                      15


Figure 4.2. Sample MECSIP Fleet Health Scores


         Fleet Health Sustainment
                                                      X      Y           Z
                 Element


         Fleet Health Roll-Up Score                   R      Y           R
         (lowest of the 3 elements)
   Life Limits of Safety Critical parts
                                                      R      G           R
   addressed


   Mission Capable contribution                       Y       Y          G



   Mission Performance                                G      G           G

                                                                             2




Figure 4.3. Summary Overall MECSIP Metrics Summary

   MDS                          Engr.        E.P.           Fleet         FH
                               Process       C.A.         Health (FH)    C.A.
                                 E.P.


   PROGRAM X                       Y          G                R             G
                              Green by Dec                Green by Dec
                                  2010                        2010


   PROGRAM Y                       G          Y                Y             G


   PROGRAM Z                       Y          G
                                                  G            R             G
                              Green by Mar                Green by Mar
                                  2011                        2012




                                                                                 3
16                                                   TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012


     4.3.5. C.A. = Corrective Action
        4.3.5.1. Green C.A. is fully funded
        4.3.5.2. Yellow C.A. is partially funded and/or not yet started
        4.3.5.3. Red C.A. is unfunded or no plan




                                          STEVEN J. BLEYMAIER, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012                                                            17


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 20-106, Management of Aviation Critical Safety Items
AFI 21-118, Improving Aerospace Equipment Reliability and Maintainability, 26 Jul 94
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering, 12 SEP 11
AFMCI 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E) and
Life Cycle Systems Engineering (LCSE), 11 Feb 11
AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management, 1 Apr 00
AFMCI 21-102, Analytical Condition Inspection (ACI) Programs, 29 Jan 02
AWB-013A, USAF Airworthiness Bulletin (AWB)-013A, 29 Jun 11
MIL-STD-1798B, Mechanical Equipment and Subsystems Integrity Program, 24 Jan 10
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAIP—Aircraft Availability Improvement Program
ACI—Analytical Condition Inspection
CSAG—Consolidated Sustainment Activity Group
CCB—Configuration Control Board
DR—Deficiency Report
FTA—Fault Tree Analysis
GSD—General Support Division
HRA—Hazard Risk Analysis
HRI—Hazard Risk Index
JDRS—Joint Deficiency Reporting System
M-Plan—– Internal Management Plan
MACC—Modification Airworthiness Certification Criteria
MMH—Maintenance Man-Hours
MRRB—Maintenance Requirements Review Board
MSD—Material Support Division
NDI—Nondestructive Inspection
NMC—Non-Mission Capable
 18                                                      TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012


OEM—Original Equipment Manufacturer
ORM—Operational Risk Management
OSS&E—Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
REMIS—Reliability and Maintainability Information System
RM&S—Reliability, Maintainability, and Sustainability
SPF—Single Point Failure
SERP—Sustaining Engineering Requirements Program
SSG—System Safety Group
TACC—Tailored Airworthiness Certification Criteria

Terms
Analytical Condition Inspection (ACI)— A generalized or specific inspection on the aircraft
looking for damage in unanticipated areas.
Configuration Control Board (CCB)— The formally organized body that is charged with the
responsibility of evaluating proposed changes to a weapon system configuration baseline and
provide recommendations to the System Program Manager (SPM). The SPM chairs the CCB,
and has sole authority to provide disposition on all proposals presented to the CCB in support of
their assigned weapon system. Advisory members from various functional disciplines and the
major commands act as advisors to the chairman.
Critical Safety Item (CSI)— Critical safety item is defined in the Aviation Critical Safety Item
Management Handbook and will be used in place of Safety-critical item as defined in MIL-STD-
1798C to keep a standard reference across existing programs.
Deficiency Report (DR)— The purpose of the DR program is to identify, report, and resolve
deficiencies on military or weapon systems hardware. DRs are briefed at least quarterly at the
Material Improvement Product (MIP) Review and will be reviewed to determine if selected DRs
should be considered as RM&S Candidates.
Fault Tree Analysis (FTA)— A systems breakdown analysis used to identify Single Point
Failures.
Hazard Risk Analysis (HRA)— Also called a Mishap Risk Assessment. The process of
characterizing hazards within risk areas and critical technical processes, analyzing them for their
potential mishap severity and probabilities of occurrence, and prioritizing them for risk
mitigation actions.
Hazard Risk Index (HRI)— Numeric value assigned to a particular project, system, and
component’s risk assessment.
General Support Division (GSD)— GSD items are supply items managed by DLA, but
Engineering Source Authority (ESA) is retained by the Air Force. A budget call is conducted
each year and funds can be requested to improve RM&S deficiencies in components managed by
DLA. This funding cannot be used for systems engineering. The GSD budget call format is very
similar to Material Supply Division (MSD) budget call format.
TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012                                                                  19


MECSIP Manager— The engineer responsible for managing the overall health of the aircraft
mechanical equipment and subsystems. Assigned by the weapon system Single Manager.
MECSIP Master Plan— A document created and updated by the MECSIP Manager to guide
the MECSIP. Identifies problem areas, processes for identifying/tracking issues, timelines for
planned MECSIP activities, use of funding sources to address issues, and a process outline for
tailoring procurement requirements.
Modification Airworthiness Certification Criteria (MACC)— A tailored set of specific
criteria to be met when certifying that a major modification is safe for flight within the approved
usage and limits. The MACC is typically a subset of the TACC for the affected airframe, but
may include additional criteria.
Maintenance Requirements Review Board (MRRB)— A panel that assures all valid depot
level maintenance requirements are evaluated and scheduled for appropriate fiscal year
accomplishment. The panel is comprised of the SPM, using command representatives, AFMC,
engineering, funding and maintenance experts. Changes to an approved maintenance program
must be submitted with complete justification to the MRRB prior to incorporation in the work
package and submission for funding.
Material Support Division (MSD)— MSD is a class of supply parts managed by an Air Force
weapon system Supply Change Manger (SCM).
Nondestructive Inspection (NDI)— Material inspection technique that does not destroy or
damage a structure, i.e. eddy current, ultrasound, tap test, etc.
Operational Risk Management (ORM)— ORM is a qualitative approach of identifying
hazards, assessing risk, and making decisions per AFI 90-901, Operational Risk Management.
The output of this qualitative assessment is determination of acceptable risk or a need to perform
a more in-depth risk assessment by developing a Hazard Risk Index (HRI).
Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness (OSS&E)— A program to reduce aircraft
mishaps while increasing mission effectiveness per AFPD 63-12, Assurance of Operational
Safety, Suitability, & Effectiveness.
Reliability and Maintainability Information System (REMIS)— Database where flight hours,
wing hours, aircraft location, accomplished maintenance, and major accomplished TCTOs are
tracked by aircraft serial number. Also called the G099 database.
Reliability, Maintainability, and Sustainability (RM&S)— Process for identifying problem
areas, and used to select areas to focus efforts and funding.
RM&S Candidate List— A list created during the RM&S process using REMIS data, DR
trends, economic data, and other information. Used to identify candidates for engineering
projects and associated funding sources.
Single Point Failure (SPF)— Failure of a single part or element that would result in a hazardous
condition and that is not compensated for by redundancy or alternative operational procedures; a
single failure with a catastrophic or critical failure effect on the system.
Single Point Failure Item— A part or element that has one or more failure modes that are
classified as Single Point Failures. This includes mission-critical, durability-critical, and safety
critical components.
 20                                                     TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012


Sustaining Engineering Requirements Program (SERP)— The budget process tool for
projection of future engineering financial requirements for the weapon system. Budgeting for
SERP requirements is once a year for USAF supported aircraft. The SERP process is
documented in ASWOI 21-17, Sustaining Engineering Requirements Process (SERP).
System Safety Group (SSG)— Deals with safety of flight issues across all weapon systems.
The SSG process is documented in ASWOI 91-02, System Safety Program (SSP).
Tailored Airworthiness Certification Criteria (TACC)— A tailored set of specific criteria to
be met when certifying that an airframe configuration is safe for flight within the approved usage
and limits.
TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012                                                         21


                                           Attachment 2
                           MECSIP MASTER PLAN TEMPLATE

The MECSIP Master plan is intended to be tailored to each weapon system specifically.
However the Master Plan shall have as a minimum the following:

Table A2.1. MECSIP Master Plan Template
TABLE of CONTENTS
Foreword
1      Introduction
1.1    Purpose
1.2    Scope
1.3    Objective
1.4    Reference Documents
1.5    Definitions
2      Aircraft Overview
3      MECSIP Requirements
3.1    Component Classification and Management
3.2    FMECAs and S/SHAs.
3.3    Reliability Analysis Team (RAT).
3.4    Maintenance Data/T.O.s/WUC Manual Reviews.
3.5    Reliability Analysis Functional Systems Integrated Database.
3.6    Operational Usage Data.
3.7    Analytical Condition Inspections.
3.8    Identify MECSIP Equipment-Caused Class A Mishaps.
3.9    Resources.
3.10   Risk Assessment, Mitigation or Acceptance.
3.11   Cost of Unreliability Model.
3.12   Deficiency Report (DR) Tracking.
4      MECSIP Administration
4.1    MECSIP Organization
5      MECSIP Process (process shall encompass the minimum requirements in section 3)
6      Historical Data
7      Analysis Tools and Product Reports
 22                                               TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012


                                   Attachment 3
        PROCESS FLOW FOR MECSIP FOR LEGACY WEAPON SYSTEMS

Figure A3.1. Process Flow for MECSIP for Legacy Weapon Systems (1of 2)
TINKERAFBI 62-603 18 APRIL 2012                                          23


Figure A3.2. Process Flow for MECSIP for Legacy Weapon Systems (2of 2)
