BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                         10-402

                                                                             10 FEBRUARY 2011

                                                                                        Operations

                                                  AUGMENTATION DUTY PROGRAM (ADP)

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.epublishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 72 MSG/CD                                                          Certified by: 72 ABW/CC
                                                                      (Col Herbert H. Wesselman)
                                                                                         Pages: 15


The ADP supports the commander in identifying, training and tracking personnel to meet short-
term augmentation needs for installation exercises, contingencies and wartime or emergency
situations/scenarios. This instruction provides guidance, establishes procedures and defines
responsibilities for the administration of the ADP within the 72d Air Base Wing (72 ABW). It
does not apply to the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard units, except where noted
otherwise. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of
primary responsibility (OPR) using AF IMT 84, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims.. This publication may not be supplemented.

This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974 authorized by Title 10, U.S.C. 8013.
 2                                               TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011



                                          Chapter 1

                                         GENERAL

1.1. Augmentation requirements should always be filled at the lowest possible organizational
level and to the greatest possible extent, by the requirement-owning entity.
1.2. Before seeking ADP assistance, resources must be exhausted at all applicable
subordinate levels. After all internal resources have been exhausted, the ADP is used to assess
augmentation requests in the following circumstances:
     1.2.1. a 72 ABW group-level commander/civilian leader seeks augmentation from outside
     his/her own group/directorate or
     1.2.2. 72 ABW/CC seeks augmentation assistance from outside the 72 ABW.
TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011                                                        3


                                        Chapter 2

                                  RESPONSIBILITIES

2.1. Section 2A—The Installation Commander (IC):
2.2. Appoints the 72 ABW/CV as the ARB Chairperson.
2.3. Appoints the 72 MSG/CD as the ADP Program Manager.
2.4. Approves/Disapproves ADP-related actions/recommendations.
2.5. Authorizes 72 ABW funding as applicable/appropriate, to cover overtime earned by
civilian personnel performing augmentee duties during contingencies and exercises.
2.6. Section 2B—The ARB Chairperson:
2.7. Upon recommendation from the Program Manager, determines when an ARB should
convene and chairs/facilitates board proceedings.
2.8. Approves ARB recommendations for appropriate intra-/inter-agency coordination
and IC review and approval/disapproval.
2.9. Section 2C – The Program Manager:
2.10. Maintains Tinker AFBI 10-402, Augmentation Duty Program, and administers the
ADP program.
2.11. Receives, validates and prepares augmentation requests for ARB review.
2.12. Acts as an advisor to the ARB and prepares/publishes ARB minutes for the
Chairperson’s signature and IC review/endorsement.
2.13. Coordinates with/assists UACs.
2.14. Maintains ADP-related forms, reports, minutes, appointment letters, etc.
2.15. Section 2D – Augmented Units/Agencies:
2.16. Serve as a non-voting member(s) of the ARB.
2.17. Appoint in writing a primary and alternate UAC (Attachment 2).
2.18. Develop augmentee job descriptions and provide copies to augmentees/their
supervisors (Attachment 4).
2.19. Fund/issue augmentee personal protective equipment, i. e., safety equipment, cold/wet
weather gear, etc. Use shared equipment/clothing that can be checked-in/checked-out vice
individually purchased items to the greatest extent possible.
2.20. Develop, implement and maintain a comprehensive and effective augmentee training
program.
2.21. Forward augmentee activation requests (for training, exercises and real-world
requirements) to 72 ABW/XP via the Tinker Operations Center Workflow account, with a
courtesy copy to the Program Manager. The 72 ABW/XP will coordinate for IC
 4                                               TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011


consideration and approval/disapproval.        If approved, 72 ABW/XP will transmit the
augmentation activation to applicable control centers for action.
     2.21.1. Include reason for activation, expected duration, number of required augmentees,
     augmentee reporting criteria and additional information, as required.
     2.21.2. Augmentees may be requested “by name” to work specific exercises or events for
     training purposes or to meet real world requirements.
2.22. Ensure augmentees are provided at least an 8-hour rest period prior to reporting for
duty and appropriate rest periods throughout the duration of the activating event.
2.23. Ensure augmentees are equipped with proper safety equipment and necessary
clothing items prior to start of shift.
2.24. Within two days of augmentee deactivation, provide UACs and Program Manager a
report of the hours each augmentee worked. Include the name, date, start/end time and
approved absences (see Civilian Personnel Hours of Work and Compensation Guidance in
Chapter 6).
2.25. Coordinate augmentee problems (shortages, no-shows for duty/training or behavior)
with applicable UACs for resolution.
2.26. Advise applicable UACs of augmentees that need to be reassigned or
replaced. Provide specific reasons for reassignment or removal.
2.27. Elevate concerns/unmet requirements and seek assistance from the Program
Manager as required.
2.28. Coordinate with UACs and supervisors to recommend recognition for augmentees
performing in an outstanding manner. Options are provided below IAW applicable
regulations (AFI 36-1004, The Air Force Civilian Recognition Program, for civilians; AFI 36-
2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, and AFI 36-3003, Military Leave
Program, for military).
     2.28.1. Civilians: Determine if a Notable Achievement Award is warranted for major
     contributions by an augmentee. A “time-off” incentive award may also be used.
     2.28.2. Military: Submit augmentees for the Air Force Achievement Medal based on
     outstanding contributions while on duty. A “time-off” incentive award may also be used.
     2.28.3. Certificates/letters of appreciation may also be awarded to recognize outstanding
     civilian and/or military augmentees.
2.29. Section 2E – Units/Agencies Providing Augmentees:
2.30. Serve as a non-voting member(s) of the ARB.
2.31. Appoint in writing a primary and alternate UAC (Attachment 2).
2.32. Identify personnel to fill augmentee positions and complete appropriate notifications
(Attachment 3) within 15 days of initial requirement levy.
     2.32.1. When possible, augmentees should have at least 12 months retainability. Twenty-
     four (24) months is preferred for positions that require extensive training or experience
     (identified in applicable augmentee job descriptions (Attachment 4)).
TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011                                                              5


   2.32.2. When an augmentee is scheduled to leave the program (retirement, transfer, etc.)
   identify a replacement in sufficient time (not less than 60 days) to ensure the replacement is
   fully trained prior to change over.
   2.32.3. Fill unexpected augmentee vacancies as soon as possible, but not later than 15 days
   from the date the vacancy is identified.
2.33. Ensure augmentees meet the physical requirements of their augmented position as
identified in the augmentee job description. If the physical qualifications of an augmented
position exceeds the requirements of an employee’s salaried position, request an occupational
health review to determine if a physical exam needs to be scheduled and the member added to
the Occupational Health Medical Examination (OHME) program. Exams are conducted at no
expense to the augmentee.
2.34. Develop and maintain a method of recalling UACs and augmentees.
2.35. Be prepared to supply the total number of augmentees when tasked. Alternates may
be trained to ensure the unit’s ability to support the tasked number. When an organization’s
internal mission requirements and tasked augmentation requirements conflict, the ARB
Chairperson or IC determines which requirements take priority.
2.36. Ensure augmentees have the proper badges, security clearances, licenses, certificates,
protective equipment and clothing required for the position as identified in the job
description.
2.37. Enable and support augmentee availability for meetings, training and duty when
scheduled. Augmentee duty takes precedence over routine, day-to-day assignments and when
an organization’s internal mission requirements and tasked augmentation requirements conflict,
the ARB Chairperson or IC will determine which requirements take priority.
2.38. Work closely with the UACs of augmented units to quickly resolve augmentee
problems (shortages, no-shows for duty or behavior).
2.39. Advise applicable UACs of any augmentees that need to be reassigned or
replaced. Provide specific reasons for reassignment or removal.
2.40. Elevate concerns and seek assistance from the Program Manager, as required.
2.41. Coordinate with UACs/supervisors to recognize outstanding augmentee performance.
 6                                               TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011


                                          Chapter 3

                      AUGMENTATION RESOURCE BOARD (ARB)

3.1. Upon receipt of a valid augmentation request, the Program Manager will recommend
to the Chairperson that an ARB convene. Upon approval from the Chairperson, the Program
Manager will schedule the meeting, prepare the agenda/appropriate briefing materials and invite
the appropriate ARB members as detailed in paragraph 1.2. and below:
     3.1.1. When a 72 ABW group-level commander/civilian leader seeks augmentation outside
     his/her own group/directorate, voting board members include the Chairperson and all 72
     ABW group-level commanders/civilian leaders or their designees.
     3.1.2. When the IC seeks augmentation assistance from outside the 72 ABW, voting board
     members include the Chairperson and OC-ALC and associate AFMC unit vice wing
     commander equivalents or their designees.
     3.1.3. Support agency advisors will be requested as needed (i.e., Comptroller, Civilian
     Personnel, Military Personnel, etc.).
3.2. ARBs will meet at least annually to review/validate existing augmentation
requirements. Annual board composition determined as outlined above in paragraph 3.1.
TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011                                                            7


                                          Chapter 4

  HOW TO REQUEST AUGMENTEES/DETERMINING THE AUGMENTEE POOL

4.1. ADP support may be requested by a 72 ABW group-level commander/civilian leader
or by the IC.
   4.1.1. Forward augmentation requests for validation to the Program Manager using the
   format at Attachment 5.
   4.1.2. The Chairperson will convene the appropriate ARB to consider all validated
   augmentation requests.
4.2. When an ARB approves an augmentation request, it subsequently levies augmentation
taskings on organizations/agencies other than the unit requesting augmentation.
   4.2.1. Augmentation pools for positions that may be filled by military and civilian
   employees are determined by an organization’s authorized military and civilian manpower
   minus authorized exempt populations (see paragraph 4.2.4).
   4.2.2. Augmentation pools for positions that may be filled by military members only are
   determined by an organization’s authorized military manpower minus authorized exempt
   military populations (see paragraph 4.2.4).
   4.2.3. Augmentation pools for positions that may be filled by civilian employees only are
   determined by an organization’s authorized civilian manpower minus authorized exempt
   civilian populations (see paragraph 4.2.4).
   4.2.4. Authorized exempt augmentee populations are:
      4.2.4.1. Geographically separated units.
      4.2.4.2. Depot Maintenance funded personnel.
      4.2.4.3. Foreign Military Sales direct case funded personnel.
      4.2.4.4. Inspector General.
      4.2.4.5. Munitions Air Force Specialty Code (2W0X1).
      4.2.4.6. Security Forces (includes DAF police officers).
      4.2.4.7. Chaplains/chaplain assistants.
      4.2.4.8. Health care providers and nurses.
      4.2.4.9. Commanders/directors,     first   sergeants   and   squadron-level   and   above
      superintendents.
4.3. The ARB determines and approves “fair-share” augmentee taskings amongst the total
approved augmentation pool.
4.4. Approved augmentee requirements/tasking(s) are documented via IC approved and
signed ARB minutes.
 8                                                TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011


                                           Chapter 5

          GUIDELINES FOR USING FEDERAL CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES FOR
                             AUGMENTATION

5.1. When selecting personnel for the augmentation program, managers and supervisors
will solicit volunteers for the assignments. If there are more volunteers than needed, selection
will be based upon Service Computation Date (SCD) from among qualified candidates. If there
are an insufficient number of volunteers, the least senior, qualified employee(s) will be selected
by SCD.
5.2. Supervisors of civilian employees identified for augmentee duty must ensure the
employee meets the physical requirements of their augmented position as identified in the
augmentee job description (Attachment 4). If the physical qualifications of an augmented
position exceeds the requirements of an employee’s salaried position, request an occupational
health review to determine if a physical exam needs to be scheduled and the member added to
the OHME program. Exams are conducted at no expense to the augmentee.
TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011                                                            9


                                         Chapter 6

  CIVILIAN PERSONNEL HOURS OF WORK AND COMPENSATION GUIDANCE

6.1. The following is provided to help properly account for exercise/alert hours worked by
augmentees:
   6.1.1. The administrative workweek begins at 0001 on Sunday and ends at 2400 on the next
   Saturday. The calendar day in which a shift begins is considered the day of duty even though
   the shift extends into the next calendar day or administrative workweek. Employees should
   have at least an 8-hour break between shifts. According to the work schedule, the first 8
   hours, 9 hours (for 5/4/9), or 10 hours (for 4/10) worked by the augmentee are considered
   regular non-overtime hours. When possible, avoid scheduling work on Sundays or holidays
   (or the designated day in lieu of a holiday) as premium pay for non-overtime hours worked is
   applicable in either situation.
   6.1.2. Employees must be advised as soon as possible of their assigned work schedule while
   on augmentee duty (i.e., five 8-hour days with evening shifts). To the extent operationally
   feasible, employees will retain their regular duty days and only the shift hours will be
   changed. Augmentees will not be forced to change their normally scheduled workdays for
   the purpose of avoiding overtime costs (or compensatory time in lieu of overtime pay).
   6.1.3. Timekeepers will mark time sheets with “Exercise/Alert” in the remarks time-in/-out
   section for applicable documented periods (i.e., overtime, compensatory time, excused
   absence, etc.).
   6.1.4. No Lunch Period (NLP) will be marked on time sheets. Employees will be provided a
   paid 20-minute on-the-job lunch period (while performing duties) between the third and sixth
   hours of the shift.
   6.1.5. Night differential of 10 percent is authorized for general schedule (GS) augmentees
   when their non-overtime scheduled shift falls between 1800 and 0600.
   6.1.6. Wage grade (WG) augmentees shift differential is authorized at 7.5 percent when most
   of the non-overtime shift is between 1500 and 2400 and 10 percent when most of their non-
   overtime shift falls between 2300 and 0800. If an employee’s normal shift is at a higher
   differential, they will receive that higher rate for time worked as an augmentee.
   6.1.7. Federal Wage System (WG, Wage Leader or Wage Supervisor) and GS employees are
   entitled to overtime pay for properly ordered and approved overtime work performed in
   excess of the normal work schedule. Employees may elect compensatory time in lieu of
   overtime pay when offered. Employees who are non-exempt from the Fair Labor Standards
   Act may also be entitled to overtime pay when they are suffered or permitted to perform
   overtime work (reference AFI 36-802, Pay Setting). GS employees earning above GS-10
   step 10 pay may be required to accept compensatory time for overtime work performed;
   however, overtime is not payable for employees earning above the rate for GS-10 step 10
   unless specifically approved in advance by commanders, directors and chief of staff offices
   or as delegated in writing to management levels.
   6.1.8. When Defense Health Program-funded civilians are used as augmentees, the 72d
   Medical Group must be reimbursed for the augmentee’s entire shift (not just overtime).
 10                                               TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011


   6.1.9. Augmentee overtime costs are approved by the IC and funded by the 72 ABW.
   6.1.10. When assigned duties are completed prior to the end of the shift (regular non-
   overtime hours) every effort must be made to assign other work, otherwise release the
   employee back to their normal position/location during normal operating hours.
   6.1.11. Scheduled overtime should be ended as soon as it is determined the purpose for
   overtime has ended. Document hours performed during overtime or the minimum two hours
   overtime for call-back purposes, if applicable, for timekeeping and pay purposes (there is no
   charge to leave if overtime ends early).
   6.1.12. Augmentees may be required to be on-call or remain at the duty station in a standby
   status and the parameters for each are as follows:
       6.1.12.1. On-Call: Designated augmentees are on notice that, if mission needs dictate,
       they may be required to report for duty during their normal off-duty time. In these
       situations, employees are not required to remain at a designated official duty location or
       their living quarters, but may be required to provide a positive means of contact and
       remain within a reasonable call-back radius of the official duty location. When on-call,
       the employee will remain within an established radius, allowed to carry out personal
       business and must provide a positive means of contact (i.e., home telephone number, cell
       phone, etc.). The employee is expected to respond when called and report to duty as
       requested. The employee is not in a duty status until he/she reports to the work location,
       at which time a minimum of two hours of call-back overtime is applicable (even if work
       is performed for less than two hours) for the inconvenience of having to prepare and
       return to duty within an established period of time.
       6.1.12.2. Standby Status: Augmentees may be required to be restricted to the official
       duty station or their living quarters and required to remain in a state of readiness to
       perform work and have their activities substantially limited such that they cannot use the
       time effectively for their own purposes. All time for which standby status is ordered is
       considered hours of work for pay and overtime purposes.
   6.1.13. Team chiefs will furnish the details of hours worked by the augmentee within two
   days of the termination of the event or exercise. Data will be provided to the UAC to include
   hours worked and any leave or absences.
   6.1.14. Owning organizations will avoid working augmentees before or after augmentee
   shifts. Any overtime work ordered for purposes outside of augmentee duty must be
   distinguished from overtime (or compensatory time in lieu of overtime pay) authorized for
   augmentee duty.
7. Adopted Form

      AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            ROBERT D. LABRUTTA, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011                                           11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Privacy Act of 1974, Authorized by Title 10, U.S.C. 8013
AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty Program, 01 August 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 05 September 2002
AFI 36-802, Pay Setting, 01 September 1998
AFI 36-1004, The Air Force Civilian Recognition Program, 03 December 2009
AFI 36-2803, The Air Force Awards and Decorations Program, 15 Jun 2001
AFI 36-3003, Military Leave Program, 26 October 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADP— Augmentation Duty Program
ARB— Augmentee Resource Board
GS— General Schedule
IC— Installation Commander
MLA— Master Labor Agreement
NLP— No Lunch Period
OHME— Occupational Health Medical Examination
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
WG— Wage Grade
UAC— Unit Augmentation Coordinator
 12                                                TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011


                                       Attachment 2
          UNIT AUGMENTATION COORDINATOR (UAC) APPOINTMENT



MEMORANDUM FOR 72 MSG/CD (ADP PROGRAM MANAGER)

FROM: (Augmented/Tasked Organization Commander or Director)

SUBJECT: Unit Augmentation Coordinator (UAC)

The following individuals are appointed as UACs:

PRIMARY UAC                                         ALTERNATE UAC

LAST NAME, FIRST, MI                                LAST NAME, FIRST, MI

RANK/GRADE                                          RANK/GRADE

OFFICE SYMBOL                                       OFFICE SYMBOL

DUTY PHONE                                          DUTY PHONE




                                          Commander’s/Director’s Signature Block

cc:
UACs
TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011                                                            13


                                         Attachment 3
                     AUGMENTEE ASSIGNMENT NOTIFICATION


MEMORANDUM FOR (IDENTIFIED AUGMENTEE)

FROM: Commander/Director

SUBJECT: Assignment and Notification as an Augmentation Team Member

1. Effective immediately and until further notice, you are assigned as an augmentee on the
(name of team). If you are a civilian employee, you are a volunteer/non-volunteer and a
bargaining/non-bargaining unit employee.

2. Our Unit Augmentee Coordinator is (UAC name contact information). Please contact our
UAC if you have any questions or concerns.




                                                    Commander’s/Director’s Signature Block

cc:
Employee’s supervisor



1st Ind, (Employee’s Name)

MEMORANDUM FOR: UAC’s NAME

I acknowledge notification of assignment as an augmentation team member. My supervisor is
aware of my assignment. If I am a civilian employee, a copy of this memorandum has been filed
in my AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief.




Employee’s Signature/Date
 14                                            TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011


                                       Attachment 4
                          AUGMENTEE JOB DESCRIPTION

(EXAMPLE) RUNNER/DOOR GUARD

 Depending on assignment, personnel will deliver various documents to various
deployment work centers, guard entryways and verify identities of individuals entering an
area.
 TRAINING REQUIREMENTS
               COURSE TITLE                                  TRAINING TIME
 REQUIREMENT                                                 (HOURS)
 Initial             Orientation                              1
                      Safety                                   1
                     OJT                                      8
 Functional Requirements                  Environmental Factors
 Use of fingers                           Outside work
 Both hands required                      Excessive noise, intermittent fumes,
 Both legs required                       smoke or gasses, grease and oils
 Long periods of standing or walking      Working around moving objects or
 Repeated bending                         vehicles
 Reaching above shoulder                  Periods of extreme weather/temperatures
 Hearing aid permitted                    Unusual fatigue factors (12 hour shifts)
 Vision with correction permitted         Irregular shifts
                                          Stress
                                          Working closely with others
 Safety Equipment (Provided by            Licenses
 Augmenters Unit)                         None

 Reflective belt
 Cold/Wet weather gear
 Hearing protection
TINKERAFBI10-402 10 FEBRUARY 2011                                                             15


                                         Attachment 5
                               AUGMENTATION REQUEST



MEMORANDUM FOR 72 MSG/CD (ADP PROGRAM MANAGER)

FROM: (Group-Level Commander or Civilian Equivalent)

SUBJECT: Unit Augmentation Request

Provide the following in memo format:

Unit requiring augmentation

Specific capability/function requiring augmentation

Outline number of required augmentees, by position, grade and category (mil/civ or either) and
attach an augmentee job description for each listed position (Attachment 4)

Provide Group’s/Directorate’s authorized/assigned strength and demonstrate how all internal
resources have been exhausted leaving augmentation as the only manning option

Provide risks of not augmenting the subject capability/function



Group-level Commander’s/Director’s Signature Block
