BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                        61-200

                                                                              5 JANUARY 2012

                                                          Scientific/Research and Development

                                                          SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL
                                                      INFORMATION (STINFO) PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OC-ALC/ENS                                                      Certified by: OC-ALC/ENS
                                                                            (David K. Robertson)
Supersedes:    TINKERAFBI 61-002,                                                      Pages: 15
               23 April 2004


This Publication implements AFI 61-201, The Local Scientific and Technical Information
Process, 16 June 1995. It establishes the procedures, processes, and management guidelines for
Tinker’s Scientific and Technical Information (STINFO) program. It is applicable to all Air
Force personnel assigned or attached to Tinker AFB, except where explicitly noted. It does not
apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. Refer
recommended changes and question about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. This publication may be supplemented
at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for
coordination prior to certification and approval. No waivers will be granted for any part of the
publication. The use of a name of any specific commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction updates, clarifies, and streamlines previous guidelines for the local STINFO
program. This Publication is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
 2                                                   TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012


1. General Information: This instruction applies to all STINFO, (regardless of media or
classification) that is produced, maintained, handled, disseminated, and/or disposed of by the Air
Force or as a result of Air Force funding. STINFO includes scientific data, engineering drawings,
standards, specifications, technical manuals, technical orders (including 202, 252, and AFTO 22
forms), technical reports, plans, blueprints, instructions, computer software and documentation,
photographs, databases, and any other information that can be used or adapted for use to design,
engineer, produce, manufacture, operate, repair, overhaul, or reproduce any military or space
equipment or technology concerning that equipment. All STINFO or any information extracted
from STINFO shall be marked with a distribution statement, destruction notice, and export
control warning (when warranted) prior to primary distribution and shall not be distributed,
disclosed, or released outside the limits of those markings by anyone other than the office that
sponsored the work that generated the technical data or that received the data on behalf of the
Government. STINFO that is transmitted by email or that resides on a portable electronic device
shall be encrypted.
2. References: This instruction does not cover every aspect of the STINFO program and should
be used in conjunction with the publications listed in Attachment 1.
3. Definitions: Terms used in this instruction are listed in Attachment 1.
4. Responsibilities:
     4.1. The STINFO Officer for the Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center (OC-ALC) is located
     in the Engineering Directorate, Systems Engineering Policy Branch (OC-ALC/ENSP). The
     OC-ALC STINFO Officer has overall responsibility for the program within OC-ALC and the
     448 Supply Chain Management Wing (SCMW) units located at Tinker, and serves as a
     resource for other units at Tinker AFB. The STINFO Officer shall ensure all aspects of the
     program are properly implemented in accordance with (IAW) the references in Attachment 1.
        4.1.1. STINFO Representatives are required in subordinate activities identified by the
        STINFO Officer. STINFO Representatives will be appointed in writing by their
        Commander and are responsible for ensuring the program is properly implemented within
        their unit IAW the references in Attachment 1. Subordinate activities within OC-ALC
        and the 848 SCMG that require a STINFO Representative are:
            4.1.1.1. OC-ALC/ENSD
            4.1.1.2. OC-ALC/ENGL
            4.1.1.3. Each Division within OC-ALC/GK
            4.1.1.4. Each Group within 76 MXW
            4.1.1.5. Each Unit with at least one Technical Order Manager (TOMA)
            4.1.1.6. 72 ABW
     4.2. The History Office, OC-ALC/HO shall determine the appropriate points of contact for a
     document when the original point of contact no longer exists or cannot otherwise be
     identified.
     4.3. The Public Affairs Office, 72 ABW/PA, reviews and approves, when appropriate, all
     documents that the controlling DoD office recommends for Distribution A (unlimited public
     distribution) IAW AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures. All STINFO with
TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012                                                              3


   Distribution A will have the date of determination and a case number from the public affairs
   office on the cover page.
   4.4. The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) Manager, 72 ABW/SCOSD, processes all
   FOIA requests for STINFO in accordance with DoD 5400.7R_AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of
   Information Act Program. All export controlled STINFO covered by the Arms Export
   Control Act qualify as Critical Technology with Military or Space Application and are
   exempt from release under FOIA IAW DoDD 5230.25, Withholding of Unclassified
   Technical Data From Public Disclosure, paragraph 5.1. STINFO that is not export controlled
   may be withheld under other FOIA exemptions. If the FOIA OPR determines that the
   STINFO is otherwise unclassified national security sensitive after consulting with the
   organizational Security Manager or is confidential commercial information obtained from
   another, the information may be nondisclosable. The STINFO officer must coordinate on the
   AFMC FORM 559 whenever STINFO is requested, including extracted STINFO information
   included in other records, unless the STINFO is marked with Distribution Statement A.
   4.5. The Foreign Disclosure Office (FDO), OC-ALC/XPOB, is the single Commander-
   designated authority for release of any/all STINFO to any foreign entities, including the
   North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).
   4.6. The Engineering Data Branch, OC-ALC/ENSD, processes all requests for engineering
   drawings located in the Joint Engineering Data Management Information and Control System
   (JEDMICS) that are associated with weapon systems managed at Tinker.
5. Training:
   5.1. The following positions are critical to the STINFO program and personnel assigned
   these positions are required to complete STINFO training within 30 days of assuming their
   duties. Supervisors will ensure personnel in the following positions complete the training as
   prescribed.
      5.1.1. Equipment Specialist (1670)
      5.1.2. Tech Order Manager (0301)
      5.1.3. Technical Data Specialist (0301)
      5.1.4. Scientists (13xx)
      5.1.5. Operations Research, Mathematics, Computer Science (1515, 1520, 1550)
      5.1.6. Engineers (08xx)
      5.1.7. Contracting Officer (1102)
      5.1.8. Program Managers (034x)
      5.1.9. STINFO Representatives, regardless of Job Series
      5.1.10. Security Managers, regardless of Job Series
      5.1.11. Supervisors of those identified in section 5.1, regardless of Job Series
   5.2. There are five STINFO training modules. The first two, “Introduction to STINFO” and
   “Marking with Distribution Statements”, must be successfully completed by those identified
   in section 5.1 to meet the STINFO training requirement. The remaining three modules,
 4                                                    TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012


     “Dissemination, Disposal, and Violations”, “Export Control and Foreign Disclosure”, and
     “Intellectual Property”, must also be successfully completed by all STINFO Representatives,
     Security Managers, and supervisors of those identified in section 5.1., and are recommended
     for all other personnel identified in section 5.1 who are responsible for distributing STINFO.
     Successful completion is defined as; completing the test for each module with a score of at
     least 80%, submitting a certificate of completion for each module to their supervisor, and the
     supervisor ensuring the information is recorded in the appropriate system.
     5.3. The five AF STINFO training modules are available online on the Scientific and
     Technical Enterprise System (STES) via the AF portal at the following location:
     https://www.my.af.mil/stes/stesWeb/education/education.do
6. Procedure:
     6.1. The Controlling DoD Office (CDO) that sponsored the work that generated the technical
     data or that received the data on behalf of the Government has the responsibility for properly
     marking the data and determining secondary distribution limitations for the data prior to the
     CDO distributing the data. The CDO will:
        6.1.1. Determine if the information is STINFO
        6.1.2. Determine if the STINFO is export controlled
        6.1.3. Determine if special limitations apply to the STINFO
        6.1.4. Determine if the Militarily Critical Technologies List (MCTL) applies to the
        STINFO
        6.1.5. Determine the most appropriate distribution statement for the STINFO
        6.1.6. Properly mark the STINFO
     6.2. Determining if information is STINFO:
Information is considered STINFO if it meets any of the following criteria:

        6.2.1. Information relating to research, development, engineering, testing, evaluation,
        production, operation, use, and maintenance for military products, services, and
        equipment for military systems. This includes production, engineering (including reverse
        engineering), and logistics information.
        6.2.2. Recorded information, regardless of form or method of recording, of a scientific or
        technical nature that can be used, or adapted for use, to design, develop, assemble,
        engineer, produce, manufacture, modify, operate, repair, test, overhaul, maintain, or
        reproduce equipment and related technology
        6.2.3. Communicable knowledge or information resulting from or pertaining to
        conducting and managing a scientific or engineering research effort.
        6.2.4. Recorded information related to experimental, developmental, or engineering
        works that can be used to define an engineering or manufacturing process or to design,
        procure, produce, support, maintain, operate, repair, or overhaul material.
TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                 5


           6.2.4.1. The data may be graphic or pictorial delineations in media, such as drawings
           or photographs, text in specifications or related performance or design type
           documents, or computer printouts.
           6.2.4.2. Examples include research and engineering data, engineering drawings, and
           associated lists, specifications, standards, process sheets, manuals, technical reports,
           briefing charts, catalog-item identifications, and related information and computer
           software documentation.
       6.2.5. Any recorded information that conveys scientific and technical information or
       technical data.
           6.2.5.1. This includes such informal documents as working papers, memoranda, and
           preliminary technical reports when such documents have utility beyond the
           immediate mission requirement, or will become part of the historical record of
           technical achievements.
   6.3. Determining if STINFO is Export Controlled:
STINFO is Export Controlled if it meets any of the following criteria:

       6.3.1. The exact same technical data has never been publicly released nor is it generally
       available to the public, and is of the type that can be used--or be adapted for use—to
       design, engineer, produce, manufacture, operate, repair, or reproduce some defense
       article listed in categories I through XVI of the U.S. Munitions List (USML),
       International Trafficking in Arms Regulations (ITAR) section 22 CFR 121.01.
           6.3.1.1. Including, but not limited to: technical reports, engineering drawings,
           operation and maintenance manuals (including technical manuals or technical orders),
           military specifications and standards related to particular types of equipment, training
           manuals related to particular types of equipment, and test reports that provide
           valuable insight into the weapon system as a whole in terms of design, use, and the
           like.
       6.3.2. It is technical data that directly pertains to an item listed in Title 15 of the
       Commerce and Foreign Trade regulations, § 774 -- The Commerce Control List (CCL).
           6.3.2.1. Including any information that can be used--or adapted for use—to design,
           produce, manufacture, use, or reconstruct articles or materials. The data may take a
           tangible form, such as a model, prototype, blueprint, or an operating manual, or may
           take an intangible form such as technical service.
NOTE: If you still cannot make a determination, request guidance from your STINFO Officer.

NOTE: In applying this Instruction, use the latest laws, regulations, and lists. The STINFO
office should have access to the latest versions and other guidance, which may affect the content
in this Instruction. Unless otherwise stated herein, all inquiries concerning the requirements and
implementation of this regulation should be addressed to the STINFO office.

   6.4. Determining if Special Limitations apply:
 6                                                   TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012


Special Limitations on the distribution of STINFO are warranted if it meets any of the following
criteria:

        6.4.1. The CDO has determined DoD 5200.1-R applies to the information and that
        special limitations are justified.
        6.4.2. The information requires protection in accordance with valid documented
        authority such as Executive Orders, classification guidelines, or DoD or DoD-Component
        regulatory documents AND the CDO has determined that any distribution without the
        express individual authorization of the CDO is warranted.
NOTE: If the CDO determines that special limitations apply, the document will be marked with
Distribution Statement F, and the CDO will be responsible for authorizing each individual
release of the document.

NOTE: Distribution Statement F is normally used only on classified technical documents.

     6.5. Determining if the MCTL applies:
        6.5.1. The MCTL is the responsibility of the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense
        International Technology Security (DUSD(ITS)), and defines in quantitative technical
        terms how technologies contribute to or have the potential to threaten US national
        security.
            6.5.1.1. The CDO will review the MCTL list to determine if the STINFO relates to
            any of the technologies listed.
            6.5.1.2. Refer to the DUSD(ITS) page at http://www.acq.osd.mil/its/site/index.html
            for the most current information about the MCTL.
        6.5.2. The CDO will review the most current information on the MCTL to determine if a
        document contains technical data or related technical data for a technology or
        technologies listed on the MCTL.
            6.5.2.1. Any STINFO containing technical data or related technical data for a
            technology or technologies listed on the MCTL will not be released outside the DoD
            without the express individual authorization of the CDO.
     6.6. Determining the most appropriate Distribution Statement:
        6.6.1. Attachment 2 provides a flowchart for determining the most appropriate
        distribution statement for a document.
            6.6.1.1. Attachment 2 will be used by all CDOs to determine the most appropriate
            distribution statement.
            6.6.1.2. Deviations from the guidance in Attachment 2 require the coordination of the
            OC-ALC STINFO Officer.
     6.7. How to properly mark STINFO.
        6.7.1. All STINFO will be marked IAW AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and
        Technical Information, and will include a valid distribution statement, an export control
        warning, and a destruction notice.
TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012                                                         7


  6.8. Handling and Destruction of STINFO
     6.8.1. STINFO will be destroyed by any method that will prevent disclosure of contents
     or reconstruction of the document in accordance with AFI 61-204.




                                        ROBERT D. LABRUTTA, COLONEL, USAF
                                        Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
 8                                                TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 3200.12, DoD Scientific and Technical Information (STI) Program (STIP), 11 February
1998
DoDI 3200.14, Principles and Operational Parameters of the DoD Scientific and Technical
Information Program, 13 May 1997
DoDD 5230.24, Distribution Statements on Technical Documents, 18 March 1987
DoDD 5230.25, Withholding of Unclassified Technical Data from Public Disclosure, 06
November 1984
DoDD 5400.7-R/AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program, 21 October 2010
AFPD 61-2, Management of Scientific and Technical Information, 07 April 1993
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Responsibilities and Management,18 August 2010
AFI 61-201, The Local Scientific and Technical Information Process, 16 June 1995
AFI 61-202, United States Air Force Technical Publication Program, 25 July 1994
AFI 61-203, The Work Unit Information System, 25 July 1994
AFI 61-204, Disseminating Scientific and Technical Information, 30 August 2002
AFI 61-205, Sponsoring or Co-Sponsoring, Conducting, and Presenting DoD-Related Scientific
Papers at Unclassified and Classified Conferences, Symposia, and Other Similar Meetings, 25
July 1994
Prescribed Forms
TINKERAFB236, Civilian Personnel Separation Checklist
Adopted Form
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—AF Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
CCL—Commerce Control List
CDO—Controlling DoD Office
DUSD(ITS)—- Deputy Under Secretary of Defense International Technology Security
EAR—Export Administration Regulations
FDO—Foreign Disclosure Office
TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                9


FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
IAW—in accordance with
IMT—Information Management Tool
ITAR—International Trafficing in Arms Regulation
JEDMICS—Joint Engineering Data Management Information and Control System
MCTL—Militarily Critical Technologies List
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OC—ALC - Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center
OC—ALC/ENSP - Engineering Directorate, Systems Engineering Policy Branch
OPR—Office of primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RDT&E—Research Development Test & Evaluation
SCMW—Supply Chain Management Wing
STES—Scientific and Technical Enterprise System
STINFO—Scientific and Technical Information
STIP—Scientific and Technical Information Program
TOMA—Technical Order Manager
USML—United States Munitions List

Terms
Arms Export Control— The law set out in 22 U.S.C. 2751-2794. This requires obtaining a
license from the Department of State for exporting defense articles and services, including
technical data related to weapons. It is implemented by the International Traffic in Arms
Regulations (ITAR) set out in 22 CFR 121-130.
Commerce Control List— The list of items in the Export Administration Regulations at 15
CFR 399. Licenses from the Department of Commerce are required to export such items and the
technical data relating to them. Applied to both commercial and military application items.
Controlling DoD Office— DoD activity that sponsored the work that generated the technical
data or the office that receives the data on behalf of a Government agency and has the
responsibility for distributing the data to eligible recipients.
Distribution Statement— A statement that must be used in marking a technical document,
regardless of publication media or form or any information extracted from such a documents, to
denote the extent of its availability for distribution, release, and disclosure without additional
approvals and authorizations from the controlling DoD office.
Export Administration Act— Any of the laws codified at 50 U.S.C. Appendix 2401-2420.
These laws were the original basis for the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) (15 CFR
 10                                                    TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012


368-399) which require obtaining a license from the Department of Commerce for exporting
certain items-and related technical data.
Export—Controlled Technical Data - Data that cannot be lawfully exported without the
approval, authorization, or license under U.S. export control laws. The controlling regulations
and documents are the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), the International Traffic in
Arms Regulation (ITAR), the Commerce Control List, and the U.S. munitions list.
Export Administration Regulations (EAR)— Controls export of dual-use items (materials
with both civilian and military uses) specified on the commerce control list. The EAR is
administered by the Bureau of Export Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, and
implements the Export Administration Act of 1979, extended by Executive Order 13222,
Continuation of Export Control Regulations.
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)— The legal authority under which the general public is
allowed to review, inspect, and receive copies of DoD records. The FOIA is codified at 5 U.S.C.
552 and regulated by DoDD 5400.7-R/AFMAN 33-302, Freedom of Information Act Program.
International Traffic in Arms Regulation (ITAR)— 22 C.F.R. § 121-130 controls the export
of defense articles specified in the U.S. Munitions List and technical data directly related to
them. ITAR is administered by the Office of Defense Trade Controls, U.S. Department of State,
and implements the U.S. Arms Export Control Act. It has jurisdiction over:
A. Information (including classified) relating to defense articles and defense services.
B. Information covered by an invention secrecy order.
C. Information directly related to designing, engineering, developing, producing,
processing, manufacturing, using, operating, overhauling, repairing, maintaining,
modifying, or reconstructing defense articles. It also includes information that advances the
state—of-the-art of articles in the U.S. Munitions List, including the technology used to procure
or maintain these components. It does not include information concerning general scientific,
mathematical, or engineering principles or theory.
Militarily Critical Technology— Technologies that would make a significant contribution to
the military potential of any country or combination of countries and that may prove detrimental
to the security of the United States. Also referred to as critical technology, they are defined in the
Export Administration Act (50 U.S.C. Appendix 2404(d)) as:
A. Arrays of design and manufacturing know—how (including technical data).
B. Keystone manufacturing, inspection, and test equipment.
C. Goods accompanied by sophisticated operation, application, or maintenance know—
how
D. Keystone equipment that would reveal or give insight into the design and manufacture of
United States military systems.
Militarily Critical Technology List (MCTL)— Issued by DoD under authority of the Export
Administration Act of 1979 as amended and Executive Order 12730. It provides descriptions of
technologies that DoD assesses to be critical to the development, production, and use of military
capabilities of significant value to potential adversaries. Corresponding to the Export
Administration Act categories, it comprises:
TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                 11


A. Technology
B. Test, Inspection, and Production equipment
C. Materials
D. Software
E. Systems, Equipment, Subassemblies, and Components
It also includes technologies significant to the proliferation of nuclear, chemical, and
biological weapons and missile delivery systems—weapons of mass destruction.
NOTE: The MCTL is not a control list, nor is it a substitute for—nor an addition to—the
current export-control lists. Rather, MCTL is a detailed and structured technical statement of
development, production, and use technologies that the DOD determines to be crucial to given
military capabilities, and of significant value to potential adversaries.
NOTE: Much confusion can arise from the title of DoD Form 2345, Militarily Critical
Technical Data Agreement. In actuality, this form should be titled “Export—Controlled
Technical Data Agreement” and all references in it to the MCTL should be ignored. As it stands,
the form would lead one to believe, incorrectly, that the MCTL can be substituted for the
Munitions List and the Commerce Control List.
Primary Distribution— Distribution of STINFO by the Controlling DoD Office (CDO).
Includes initial distribution as well as any distribution during the life of the information made by
the controlling or originating DoD office. Primary distribution is not limited by the distribution
statement, nor is the CDO bound by the distribution statement.
Scientific and Technical Information (STINFO)— Information relating to research,
development, engineering, testing, evaluation, production, operation, use, and maintenance for
military products, services, and equipment for military systems. This includes production,
engineering, and logistics information.
Scientific and Technical Information Program (STIP)— The “umbrella” under which all
DoD and military service scientific and technical information programs operate. The concepts
and responsibilities of this program are detailed in DoD Directive 3200.12.
Secondary Distribution— Distribution by anyone other than the controlling or originating DoD
office and is the only type of distribution covered by the affixed Distribution Statement.
Technical Data— Recorded information, regardless of form or method of recording, of a
scientific or technical nature. Information that can be used, or adapted for use, to design,
develop, assemble, engineer, produce, manufacture, modify, operate, repair, test, overhaul,
maintain, or reproduce equipment and related technology
Technology— All scientific or engineering efforts directed toward eliminating technical barriers
and providing solutions to technical problems encountered in Research Development Test and
Evaluation (RDT&E) programs.
US Munitions List— This list designates defense articles and defense services that are subject to
the ITAR, where:
A. Defense articles are those items designated in the U.S. Munitions List that must be
export controlled, and include models, mock—ups, and any other devices that reveal technical
data related directly to those articles.
 12                                                 TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012


B. Defense services means:
1. Furnishing assistance, including training to foreign persons, in the design, engineering
development, production, processing, manufacture, use, operation, overhaul, repair,
maintenance, modification, or reconstruction of defense articles, whether in the United States or
abroad.
2. Furnishing any technical data to foreign persons, whether in the United States or abroad.
TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012                              13


                                    Attachment 2
    DETERMINING THE MOST APPROPRIATE DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT

Figure A2.1. Appropriate Distribution Statement
 14                                                      TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012


Attachment 3

DISTRIBUTION STATEMENTS

Table A3.1. Distribution Statements



DISTRIBUTION A. Approved for public release; distribution unlimited. (Approval given by local Public
Affairs Office)
DISTRIBUTION B. Distribution authorized to U.S. Government agencies only (reason) (date of
determination). Refer other requests for this document to (controlling or originating DoD office).
DISTRIBUTION C. Distribution authorized to U.S. Government agencies and their contractors (reason)
(date of determination). Refer other requests for this document to (controlling or originating DoD
office).
DISTRIBUTION D. Distribution authorized to Department of Defense and U.S. DoD contractors only
(reason) (date of determination). Refer other requests for this document to (controlling or originating
DoD office).
DISTRIBUTION E. Distribution authorized to DoD components only (reason) (date of determination).
Refer other requests for this document to (controlling or originating DoD office).
DISTRIBUTION F. Further dissemination only as directed by (controlling or originating DoD office) (date
of determination) or DoD higher authority (list the specific authority--unless a classified document).
DISTRIBUTION X. Distribution authorized to U.S. Government Agencies and private individuals or
enterprises eligible to obtain export-controlled technical data in accordance w/ DoDD 5230.25 (date of
determination). Controlling DoD office is (controlling or originating DoD office).
                                                                                       POSSIBLE
                                                                                     DISTRIBUTION
                                    "REASON”
                                                                                     STATEMENTS
                                                                                  A B C D E F X
PUBLIC RELEASE (Approval required by Public Affairs Office) X                     X
ADMINISTRATIVE OR OPERATIONAL USE. To protect technical or operational
data or information from automatic dissemination under the international
exchange program or by other means. This protection covers publications
required solely for official use or strictly for administrative or operational
purposes. This statement may be applied to manuals, pamphlets, technical
orders, technical reports, and other publications containing valuable
technical or operational data.                                                      X X X X
CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION. To protect information in
management reviews, records of contractor performance evaluation, or
other advisory documents evaluating programs of contractors.                        X          X
TINKERAFBI 61-200 5 JANUARY 2012                                                                   15




CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY. To protect information and technical data that
advance current technology or describe new technology in an area of
significant or potentially significant military application or that relate to a
specific military deficiency of a potential adversary. Information of this type
may be classified.                                                                 X X X   X
DIRECT MILITARY SUPPORT. To protect export-controlled technical data of
such military significance that release for purposes other than direct
support to DoD to bid or perform on a Government contract) may
jeopardize an important technological or operational U.S. military
advantage. Designation of such data is made by competent authority in
accordance with DoD Directive 5230.25.                                                     X
FOREIGN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION. To protect and limit distribution in
accordance with the desires of the foreign government that furnished the
technical information. Information of this type normally is classified at the
CONFIDENTIAL level or higher in accordance with DoD 5200.1-R.                      X X X   X
PREMATURE DISSEMINATION. To protect patentable information on
systems or processes in the developmental or concept stage from
premature disclosure that might jeopardize the inventor’s right to obtain a
patent.                                                                            X       X
PROPRIETARY INFORMATION. To protect information not owned by the U.S.
Government and protected by a contractor’s “limited rights” statement, or
received with the understanding that it not be transmitted outside DoD or
the U.S. Government without the permit.                                            X       X
SOFTWARE DOCUMENTATION. Releasable only in accordance with DoD
Instruction 7930.2 and AFI 33-114.                                                 X X X   X
TEST & EVALUATION. To protect results of test and evaluation of
commercial products or military hardware when such disclosure may cause
unfair advantage or disadvantage to the manufacturer of the product.               X       X
SPECIFIC AUTHORITY. To protect information not specifically included in the
above reasons and discussions but which requires protection in accordance
with valid documented authority such as Executive Orders, classification
guidelines, or DoD or DoD-Component regulatory documents. When filling
in the reason cite “Specific Authority (identification of valid documented
authority).”                                                                       X X X   X
Statement F is normally used only on classified technical documents (cite
DoD 5200.1-R, para 5.208), but may be used on unclassified technical
documents when specific authority can be cited. NOTE: Some distribution
statement guides indicate Statement F is applicable to any of the “Reasons”
listed. This is true only in that STINFO that qualifies for any of the “Reasons”
is not excluded from Statement F, but qualifying for any of the “Reasons”
listed does not allow Statement F to be applied unless it also meets the
requirements of section 6.4.                                                                   X
EXPORT-CONTROLLED TECHNICAL DATA. To protect export-controlled
technical data (listed in the Commerce Control List or the Munitions List).
Use when statements B, C, D, E, or F do not apply.                                                 X
