Administrative Changes to TINKERAFBI 33-110, Automated Information System (AIS) Access
and Data Release Requirements

OPR: 72 ABW/SCP: Special Mission Division

References throughout to “https://wwwmil.tinker.af.mil/ites/opr.asp” change to
“https://org.eis.afmc.af.mil/sites/ocalcit/72ABWSCP/systems/default.aspx” .

Reference throughout to “76MXW/OB” change to “OC-ALC/OB”.

Reference throughout to “327ASW/OM” change to “AFSC/LCMC”.

Reference throughout to “948SCMG/DD” change to “448SCMG/OMM”.

Reference throughout to “ocalc.it.crm.workflow@tinker.af.mil” change to 72ABW.SC-
CRM.Workflow@us.af.mil.

Reference throughout to “Oklahoma Air Logistics Center” change to “Oklahoma City Air
Logistics Complex”.

21 February 2014
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                         33-110

                                                                            3 SEPTEMBER 2009
                                                                  Certified Current, 25 October 2011
                                                               Communications and Information

                                                AUTOMATED INFORMATION SYSTEM (AIS)
                                                         ACCESS AND DATA RELEASE
                                                                   REQUIREMENTS


ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


                                                                        Certified by: 72ABW/SC,
                                                                          (Col. Mary M. Gillam)
Supersedes:    TINKERAFBI33-110,                                                        Pages: 11
               28 December 2006



This instruction outlines requirements for access to 72 ABW/SC managed, unclassified
automated information systems (AIS) and requesting data from those AIS. It also outlines
requirements for maintaining AIS access accounts. This publication requires the collection and
or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to
collect and or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are Executive Order 10450,
9397. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF form 874s form the field through publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The requirement for an AIS Interim access memo to accompany the DD2875 has been removed.
Also office symbols have been updated where necessary.
1. General Information: This instruction establishes procedures and requirements for
obtaining and maintaining access to 72 ABW/SC supported, unclassified automated information
systems (AIS) and requesting data from 72 ABW/SC managed AIS. This instruction applies to
2                                                 TINKERAFBI33-110 3 SEPTEMBER 2009


all Air Force military, civilian, and contractor personnel at Tinker Air Force Base that request
AIS access and/or data queries from 72 ABW/SC managed AIS.
2. Obtaining Data System Access
    2.1. All personnel requiring access to systems supported by 72 ABW/SC must complete the
    appropriate system access request forms.
       2.1.1. A list of all AIS managed by 72 ABW/SC is available on the Web at:
       https://wwwmil.tinker.af.mil/ites/opr.asp. Each system has its own individual web
       page.
           2.1.1.1. Each system has specific access forms available on its system web page
           under “Access Requirements.
           2.1.1.2. Additional system access requirements may also be found on the system web
           page bulletin or under the “Briefings,” “Tools and Support Info,” and/or “Helpful
           Links” sections of the individual system web pages.
       2.1.2. The organization, office symbol/department, job title, and email address must be
       supplied for the position of record on the system access request form. Additional
       information is required for employees in situations as follows:
           2.1.2.1. Employees detailed to another organization:
               2.1.2.1.1. The organization, office symbol/department, job function, and email
               address for the detail position must be included as part of the justification for
               access on the system access request form.
               2.1.2.1.2. The immediate supervisor must supply an expiration date for the detail
               on the system access request form.
           2.1.2.2. Employees assigned to work a special project, on a team, or as an intern on
           rotation:
               2.1.2.2.1. The project, team, or internship information must be stated on the
               system access request form as part of the justification for access, along with the
               job function being performed on the assignment requiring system access.
               2.1.2.2.2. The immediate supervisor must supply an expiration date for the detail
               on the system access request form.
    2.2. Additional access requirements for contractors:
       2.2.1. System access request forms for contractors must include the company name,
       contract number, and contract expiration date. The forms must be signed off by the
       sponsor, (i.e. USAF program manager, project officer, contracting officer, Contracting
       Office Technical Representative [COTR], etc.)
       2.2.2. Contractor system access requests must be accompanied by a signed “Contractor
       Non-Disclosure Statement,” Attachment 3. If access to multiple systems is being
       requested, a single Contractor Non-Disclosure Statement listing all systems may be
       submitted.
TINKERAFBI33-110 3 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                             3


      2.2.3. A contractor’s system access will be terminated on the contract expiration date,
      unless or until new system access request forms and non-disclosure statements are
      received showing the contractor still requires access, and provides a new contract
      number, if applicable, and new contract expiration date.
   2.3. Interim Access requirements for personnel without a security clearance and a pending
   investigation.
      2.3.1. If the requestor does not have a security clearance it is the responsibility of the
      requestor’s security manager to ensure that the requirements in AFI 31-501 are complied
      with, including any required letters granting interim clearances, in order to give the
      requestor interim access. By signing the DD2875, the security manager is validating that
      all security clearance/investigation requirements are met in order to grant the requestor
      AIS access.
      2.3.2. Upon notification of an unfavorable investigation/denied clearance, the security
      manager will notify 72 ABW/SC. The user’s AIS accounts will be terminated.
3. Modification of Data System Access
   3.1. Password Reset requirements will vary by system.
      3.1.1. Users should call the appropriate help desk for password resets. System help desk
      numbers can be found on the respective 72 ABW/SC system web pages at:
      https://wwwmil.tinker.af.mil/ites/opr.asp. Each system has its own individual web
      page.
      3.1.2. Other password requirements exist, but vary by system. In general, the user can
      expect the following with respect to passwords:
          3.1.2.1. Users may be prompted to change a system password after a certain number
          of days.
          3.1.2.2. System access may be suspended for non-use after specified period of time,
          which may require password reset by the appropriate system help desk.
   3.2. Safeguarding Passwords.
      3.2.1. System users will protect passwords based on the sensitivity of the information or
      critical operations they protect. At a minimum, passwords must be safeguarded as “For
      Official Use Only” (FOUO). (Reference AFMAN 33-223)
      3.2.2. Users are encouraged not to keep a copy of their written password, but if this is
      impossible, the password should be protected IAW CJCSM 6510.01, Appendix A,
      Enclosure C, for instance.
          3.2.2.1. Do not store the password where it is easily accessible to computer.
          3.2.2.2. Do not keep the password and user ID together.
          3.2.2.3. Store the password in a locked drawer, cabinet, or container.
      3.2.3. System users must not disclose their passwords to other employees. Disclosure of
      passwords is considered a security violation. Anyone in violation will have their system
      access terminated. A notification will be sent to the employee’s immediate supervisor,
4                                                 TINKERAFBI33-110 3 SEPTEMBER 2009


       commander, and Information Assurance Officer with a copy to 72 ABW/SC. (Reference
       AFMAN 33-223_AFMCSUP1)
    3.3. Profile changes.
       3.3.1. Changes of manager designator codes (MDC) on a user ID profile must be
       submitted to the System OPR via e-mail by the immediate supervisor of the user. The e-
       mail must include a signature block that identifies the sender as the immediate supervisor.
       The e-mail should include the user’s name, user ID, and old codes to be removed and
       new codes to be added.
       3.3.2. Changes to a user’s type of access, i.e. currently has read-only access, but now
       requires input capability, must be submitted to the System OPR on a new system access
       request form, indicating the request is a modification to the user’s current system access.
       3.3.3. Requests to loan a user’s workbaskets/privileges must be submitted to the System
       OPR via e-mail by the immediate supervisor of the user. The e-mail must include the
       user’s workbasket/privilege information (i.e. MDC), the user to load the
       workbasket/privileges to, a start date, and an end date. The e-mail must also include a
       signature block that identifies the sender as the user’s immediate supervisor, team lead or
       coordinator, Requirements Control Officer (RCO), or Technical Control Officer (TCO).
4. Maintenance of Data System Access
    4.1. User ID reinstatements: A new system access request form is required for all user ID
    reinstatements.
    4.2. Reassignments/Permanent Promotions: User information and profiles must remain
    accurate and appropriate for the job function of the user. When a user changes jobs, the
    user’s organization/contact information and system user profiles must be updated.
       4.2.1. The user and the immediate supervisor of the losing organization must submit a
       system access request form indicating all the systems the user has access to and an
       expiration date for the access. The user’s access will expire on that date unless new
       system access request forms are received from the user signed by the immediate
       supervisor of the gaining organization.
       4.2.2. The user must submit new access request forms for all systems required to perform
       the user’s new job, signed by the immediate supervisor of the gaining organization, and
       indicate the start date for the user on the new position. If the user no longer requires
       access to a particular system, then a system access request form should be submitted
       indicating that the access should be deactivated.
    4.3. Details/Temporary Promotions: User information and profiles must remain accurate
    and appropriate for the job function of the user. When a user is detailed to a different
    position or is promoted temporarily, the user’s organization/contact information and system
    user profiles must be updated.
       4.3.1. If the user is detailed or promoted for a period of 120 days or less, the supervisor
       for the detail position or the temporary promotion position must notify the System OPR
       for each system via e-mail. The e-mail should include the user’s name, system(s)/User
       ID(s), type of access required, codes to add/remove, etc, along with the expiration date
TINKERAFBI33-110 3 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                              5


      of the detail/temporary position. Additionally, the e-mail must include a signature block
      that identifies the sender as the immediate supervisor of the user.
      4.3.2. If the user is detailed or promoted for a period of more than 120 days, the user
      and losing and gaining immediate supervisors must follow the guidance in 4.2. for
      maintenance of system access.
   4.4. Name Changes: Users whose name changes must submit a new system access request
   form for modification, annotating the name change. The form can include all systems the
   user has access to rather than doing a separate form for each system.
   4.5. Revalidation: 72 ABW/SC will perform annual revalidation of user access to 72
   ABW/SC managed systems. During revalidation, users will be required to submit new
   system access request forms if any of the user’s contact information and/or job function has
   changed.
5. Deactivation of Data System Access
   5.1. Deactivation of Contractor’s system access.
      5.1.1. Contractors’ access automatically expires on the contract expiration date unless
      the requirements in 2.2. have been fulfilled prior to the contract expiration date.
      5.1.2. The sponsors of contractors that terminate employment prior to the contract
      expiration date must submit a system access request form listing the systems the
      employee had access to indicating that the access should be terminated.
      5.1.3. Contractors that become civil service employees must submit new system access
      request forms as a civil service employee to obtain system access (Para 2.) for their civil
      service job duties. System access from contractor employment will not be carried over.
   5.2. Separation from service and reassignments of personnel to external agencies to Tinker
   AFB.
      5.2.1. 72 ABW/SC obtains personnel losses listings from the personnel office regularly.
      All system access to 72 ABW/SC managed systems for all personnel appearing on the
      listing will be terminated immediately.
      5.2.2. Personnel that separate from service and return to work as a contractor must
      submit system access request forms to obtain new access to systems (Para 4.) required to
      perform the person’s contractual job duties. Access from the person’s government
      employment will not be carried over.
   5.3. Interim Access/Unfavorable Investigation/Denied Clearance: Upon notification of
   denied clearance and/or unfavorable investigation, for a system user, the user’s system access
   will be terminated immediately.
6. Data Requests
   6.1. Ad Hoc Data Query Requests from 72 ABW/SC Supported AIS.
      6.1.1. Requests for data queries that are not intended for use in the
      development/sustainment of another application, tool, or system, can be requested from
      the 72 ABW/SC System OPR via e-mail. The requester will supply the system name,
6                                                   TINKERAFBI33-110 3 SEPTEMBER 2009


       cycle date if applicable, selection criteria, and the need date in the request. Attachment 2
       contains a sample format for data query requests.
       6.1.2. Ad Hoc Data Query requests from contractors.
           6.1.2.1. If the contractor requesting data already has access to the system(s) the data
           comes from (with the appropriate system access request form and non-disclosure
           statement on file) and would normally be able to interrogate the system for the data
           being requested, then the contractor can request the data from the 72 ABW/SC
           System OPR as outlined in 6.1.1.
           6.1.2.2. If the contractor requesting data does not currently have access to the
           system(s) the data resides in, then the data requests are to be submitted in writing by
           e-mail or memorandum, Attachment 2, from the sponsor to the 72 ABW/SC System
           OPR. The e-mail or memorandum will incorporate the following information and
           attachments:
               6.1.2.2.1. Certify that the contractor requires the data requested to perform
               contractual job duties. This statement will incorporate the following information:
                  6.1.2.2.1.1. Contractor’s name.
                  6.1.2.2.1.2. Contractor’s company name.
                  6.1.2.2.1.3. Government organization the contractor is supporting.
                  6.1.2.2.1.4. Data required will be listed as an attachment (sample format -
                  Attachment 2). Refer to 6.1.1. for information to be included in the data query
                  request.
                  6.1.2.2.1.5. Explanation of what the data will be used for, i.e., research,
                  analysis, etc.
               6.1.2.2.2. Certify that the contractor has signed a Contractor Non-Disclosure
               Statement; attach copy of the Contractor Non-Disclosure Statement to the e-mail
               or memorandum.
               6.1.2.2.3. Authorize the release of the data to the contractor, or other specified
               Point of Contact (POC).
               6.1.2.2.4. The signature element, whether e-mail or memorandum, must indicate
               that the person signing the memorandum or sending the e-mail is the sponsor of
               the contract employee requesting the data.
               6.1.2.2.5. POC information for the memo/e-mail.
    6.2. Data requested from 72 ABW/SC AIS that is intended for use in the
    development/sustainment of another application, tool, or system must be submitted on an
    AF IMT 3215. The AF IMT 3215 will be signed by the requesting organization’s Group
    Commander (or Division level for Staff organization structures) and then submitted to the
    organizational business/budget office (76MXW/OB; 327ASW/OM; 948SCMG/DD) for
    coordination. Once both signatures are obtained, the form will be electronically forwarded to
    ocalc.it.crm.workflow@tinker.af.mil.
TINKERAFBI33-110 3 SEPTEMBER 2009                                              7


7. Records:
   7.1. System Access Request forms.
   7.2. Contractor Non-Disclosure Statements.
   7.3. E-mail Notifications (5.3. and 6.3.).
   7.4. Contractor Data Release Memorandums/E-mails.
   7.5. Data Query Requests.
8. Adopted Form: AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                                Allen J. Jamerson, Col, USAF
                                                Commander, 72ABW/CC
8                                                  TINKERAFBI33-110 3 SEPTEMBER 2009


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 5200.2-R. Personnel Security Program, 16 January 1987
DoD 8500.2. Information Assurance (IA) Implementation, 06 February 2003
CJCSM 6510.01. Defense-In-Depth: Information Assurance (IA) and Computer Network
Defense CND), 25 March 2003
DoD 5200.28. Security Requirements for Automated Information Systems (AIS), 02 September
1986
DoD 8500.1. Information Assurance (IA), 24 October 2002
AFI 31-601. Industrial Security Program Management, 29 June 2005
AFI 33-112. Computer Systems Management, 07 April 2006
AFMAN 33-223. Identification and Authentication, 29 July 2005
AFMAN 33-223_AFMCSUP1. Identification and Authentication, (HOLDOVER)
Defense Acquisition University (DAU) Glossary of Defense Acquisition Acronyms and Terms,
12th Edition
Terms
1. Automated Information System (AIS): A combination of computer hardware, computer
software, and/or data that performs functions such as collecting, processing, storing, transmitting
and displaying information. (DAU Glossary) The term “system” will be used interchangeably
with AIS in this instruction.
2. Contractor: An employee of an entity in private industry which enters into contracts with the
government to provide goods or services. (DAU Glossary) NOTE: May also be referred to as a
contractor employee or as contractor personnel.
3. Interim Access: Access to an AIS granted to an employee on an interim basis pending
completion of a background investigation and/or receipt of a security clearance.
4. Sponsor: For the purposes of this instruction, a sponsor is an Air Force military or civil
service employee, i.e. USAF program manager, project officer, contracting officer, or
Contracting Officer Technical Representative (COTR), who may sign as a sponsor authorizing a
contractor to obtain AIS access.
5. System Access Request Form: A form that is completed by a civil service, military, or
contract employee to obtain access to a particular AIS. The actual form used may vary
depending on the system.
TINKERAFBI33-110 3 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                             9


                                        Attachment 2
                                    SAMPLE LETTER



                        DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
               HEADQUARTERS OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS CENTER
                                   (AFMC)
                      TINKER AIR FORCE BASE OKLAHOMA

MEMORANDUM FOR :72ABW/SC
FROM:
SUBJECT: Data Query Request
1. I certify that the following contractor, (Contractor’s Name), (Contractor’s Co. Name),
requires the data requested in the attached Data Query Request to fulfill duties supporting
(ORGN) personnel in (DUTIES)
2. I also certify that a Contractor Non-Disclosure Statement has been completed by each
Contractor employee working the project; a copy is attached.
3. I hereby authorize 72 ABW/SC to release data in this request directly to (CONTRACTOR)
OR
3. I hereby authorize 72 ABW/SC to release data in this request to (ORGN), (POC)
4. (POC info)

                                                          (Sponsor Signature)
                                                          (Signature Element)


Attachments
1. Data Query Request
2. Contractor Non-Disclosure Statement(s)
10                                              TINKERAFBI33-110 3 SEPTEMBER 2009


                                     Attachment 2 (Cont’)
                                  DATA QUERY REQUEST

System:

“Cycle” or “As of Date” (if applicable):

Selection Criteria:

Data Elements:

Needed By:
TINKERAFBI33-110 3 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                                   11


                                           Attachment 3
                                       SAMPLE FORMAT
                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                             Personal Data – Privacy Act of 1974 Applies


                               Non-Disclosure Statement for Contractor Personnel



I, [Click here and type name], citizen of [Click here and type country], will under no
circumstances use data extracted via [Click here and type system(s), ie D043] for other than
government purposes, nor will I make this information available to any contractor(s)/vendor(s)
or third parties.

SSN: [Click here and type SSN]

Signature: _______________________________                                         Date: ____________
Typed/Printed Name: [Click here and type name]



This information is governed by the Privacy Act of 1974; therefore, it must be controlled and
disposed of accordingly.

                             Personal Data – Privacy Act of 1974 Applies

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
