Administrative Changes to Tinker AFB Instruction 33-129, Web Management

OPR: 72 ABW/SCOO

References to 72 CS should be changed to 72 ABW/SC throughout the publication

References to 72d Communications Squadron (CS) should be changed to 72d Communications
Directorate (72 ABW/SC) in Para 2.3.

References to 72 CS/SCBA and 72 CS/SCBN should be changed to 72 ABW/SC in all
attachments

26 October 2011
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 33-129
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE
                                                           29 JULY 2009
                                           Certified Current 17 June 2011
                                        Communications and Information

                                                                                                        WEB MANAGEMENT



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil..

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 72CS/CL                                                            Certified by: 72CS/CL (Col James E. Eilers)
                                                                                                        Pages: 18



This publication implements Air Force Instruction 33-129, Web Management and Internet Uses.
It establishes guidance and procedures for Tinker AFB web sites and provides information on
required elements to ensure government information is protected. This publication applies to
base host, associate and tenant organizations supported by 72 ABW. It doesn’t applies to the Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted
otherwise. All organizations must read and adhere to these governing guidelines: DoD Web Site
Administration Policies & Procedures (http://www.defenselink.mil/webmasters/), AFI 33-129,
Web Management and Internet Uses, AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures,
Chapter 18. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through Tinker Publications/forms managers.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.


       1.     Public and Restricted (private) Web Site. ..............................................................               2
       2.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................       5
       3.     Requesting Authorization to Create/Maintain Web Pages. ...................................                             9
       4.     Prescribed Forms: ..................................................................................................   9

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       11
2                                                       TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009


Attachment 2—Internet Release Package (IRP)                                                  12

Attachment 3—Sample Web Site Hosting Request                                                 13

Attachment 4—Sample Appointment of Web Page Maintainers                                      14

Attachment 5—Sample of Web Page Maintainer Agreement                                         15

Attachment 6—Sample of Restricted Web Site Coordination Form                                 16

Attachment 7—Sample of Public Web Site Coordination Form                                     17

Attachment 8—Sample of Request for FTP Site Access to Web Server                             18


1. Public and Restricted (private) Web Site. There are two types of web pages hosted on two
physically separate servers.
    1.1. Public Web Site.
       1.1.1. The public web server, located outside the Tinker base firewall, and is accessible
       to the public and is used for public information as defined in AFI 33-129, Web
       Management and Internet Use.
       1.1.2. Public web pages will not include information intended for internal DoD use
       without appropriate access control, and DoD Web sites containing FOR OFFICIAL USE
       ONLY (FOUO) not specifically cleared and marked as approved for public release in
       accordance with DoD Directive 5230.9, Clearance of DoD Information for Public
       Release, and DoD Instruction 5230.29, Security and Policy Review of DoD Information
       for Public Release.
       1.1.3. Links to the restricted intranet Air Force Portal will not be allowed on a public
       web site. Because Public Web sites have global distribution, the 72 ABW Public Affairs
       office (72 ABW/PA) is the approval authority and will ensure the web site is in
       accordance with AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Policies and Procedures.
       1.1.4. Only “.mil” addresses, organizational e-mail listings or organizational phone
       directories are allowed on public web sites. Public pages may provide general numbers of
       services such as base locator, public affairs and other commonly requested resources.
       1.1.5. No classified, sensitive, For Official Use Only (FOUO), Privacy Act, contractor
       proprietary, or scientific and technical information is allowed on the public site.
       1.1.6. Web Accessibility Standards. Requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation
       Act Amendments of 1998, requires publicly accessible web-based information be equally
       accessible to disabled and non-disabled individuals. Notices of Proposed Rule Markings
       (NPRM) specific requirements for web-based information, located in section 1194.23 of
       GSA Center for Information Technology Accommodation (CITA) are:
          1.1.6.1. A text equivalent for every non-text element shall be provided via “alt”
          (alternative text attribute), “longdesc” (long description tag) or in element content.
          1.1.6.2. Web pages shall be designed so that all information required for navigation
          or meaning is not dependent of the ability to identify specific colors.
TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009                                                                  3


         1.1.6.3. Changes in the natural language (e.g., English to French) of a document’s
         text and any text equivalents shall be clearly identified.
         1.1.6.4. Documents shall be organized so they are legible without requiring an
         associated style sheet.
         1.1.6.5. Web pages shall update equivalents for dynamic content whenever the
         dynamic content changes.
         1.1.6.6. Redundant text links shall be provided for each active region of a server-side
         image map.
         1.1.6.7. Client-side image maps shall be used whenever possible in place of server-
         side image maps.
         1.1.6.8. Data tables shall be identified by row or column headers.
         1.1.6.9. Frames shall be titled with text that facilitates frame identification and
         navigation.
         1.1.6.10. Pages shall be usable when scripts, applets or other programmatic objects
         are turned off or are not supported, or shall provide equivalent information on an
         alternative accessible page.
         1.1.6.11. Alternate forms of presentations for any multimedia presentation shall be
         synchronized with the presentation.
         1.1.6.12. An appropriate method shall be used to facilitate the easy tracking of page
         content that provides users of assistive technology or accessibility software the option
         to skip repetitive navigation links.
     1.1.7. Use of persistent cookies must be approved by the Secretary of Defense, IAW AFI
     33-129, Para 9.1.
     1.1.8. All pages on the public internet web server must contain all the information
     contained in AFI 33-129, Paragraph 6. All public internet available pages will display the
     text:“AFMC Privacy & Security Statements: External Link Disclaimer - The appearance
     of hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement by the U.S. Air Force of this Web site or
     the information, products or services contained therein. For other than authorized
     activities such as military exchanges and Morale, Welfare and Recreation sites, the U.S.
     Air Force does exercise any editorial control over the information you may find at these
     locations. Such links are provided consistent with the stated purpose of this DoD Web
     site.”
  1.2. Restricted Intranet Site.
     1.2.1. The Tinker AFB Intranet site, located on the Air Force Portal, is restricted to
     military agencies world-wide that are part of the “.mil” domain including all on-base
     personnel. The restricted site is used for pages that are of value to the base/military
     community or provide mission support and contain “need to know” information.
     1.2.2. The Air Force Portal provides a development web site for static content, known as
     Publishing Center Portal (PCP), for web testing and development of all current AF Portal
     web sites.
4                                                     TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009


    1.2.3. Standards and guidelines that pertain to the Tinker public web sites will also apply
    to the restricted site. AFI 33-129, Para 6.5.2 provides additional information that may be
    included in restricted sites with the following:
       1.2.3.1. Directories of unit personnel, e-mail addresses and phones numbers are
       acceptable to publish.
       1.2.3.2. Links to other “.mil/.gov” public and restricted sites are allowed.
       1.2.3.3. Persistent cookies may be used.
    1.2.4. All must be IAW AFI 33-129, Paragraph 6, and must contain the following or
    provide a statement such as "Please read this privacy and security notice" linked to the
    actual notice.
       1.2.4.1. Name of page maintainer including e-mail, organization, office symbol, DSN
       and commercial phone numbers or:
       1.2.4.2. Point of contact for page content, i.e. Information Provider/Content Manager
       including e-mail, organization, office symbol, DSN and commercial phone numbers.
       1.2.4.3. Warning Notice (IAW AFI 33-129, Paragraph 7): “AFMC Privacy &
       Security Statements: This site is intended for the use of the Air Force or other U.S.
       Military Units only. Do not reproduce or distribute the content of this site to a wider
       audience without coordination with the information owner and your unit public
       affairs office. You are accessing a U.S. Government (USG) Information System (IS)
       that is provided for USG-authorized use only. By using this IS (which includes any
       device attached to this IS), you consent to the following conditions:-The USG
       routinely intercepts and monitors communications on this IS for purposes including,
       but not limited to, penetration testing, COMSEC monitoring, network operations and
       defense, personnel misconduct (PM), law enforcement (LE) and counterintelligence
       (CI) investigations.-At any time, the USG may inspect and seize data stored on this
       IS.-Communications using, or data stored on, this IS are not private, are subject to
       routine monitoring, interception, and search, and may be disclosed or used for any
       USG authorized purpose.-This IS includes security measures (e.g., authentication and
       access controls) to protect USG interests--not for your personal benefit or privacy.-
       Notwithstanding the above, using this IS does not constitute consent to PM, LE or CI
       investigative searching or monitoring of the content of privileged communications, or
       work product, related to personal representation or services by attorneys,
       psychotherapists, or clergy, and their assistants. Such communications and work
       product are private and confidential. See User Agreement for details”
    1.2.5. Web pages should be arranged in a hierarchical manner.
       1.2.5.1. The Tinker Home Page has been established using a basic template that
       includes seven specific navigational bars. These include: About Tinker, Base
       Services, Administrative, Training, PC Network Support, Newcomers and Weather.
       The AF Portal has its own template(s) and tools which somewhat limits use of
       “homegrown” navigational bars. However the left-Navigation section of AF Portal
       allows for creation of customized navigational bars.
TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009                                                                    5


          1.2.5.2. Each wing and staff office home page should reference the major categories
          of information maintained within the web site (limit these major categories to no
          more than seven.) The page must include the standard disclaimer/security banner and
          the name, e-mail and phone of the web page maintainer and/or information provider.
          The following navigational categories are recommended for the web site’s home
          page:
          1.2.5.3. About the organization. Background/mission, leadership, history, local area,
          locations, strategic plans, Internal Organization for Standardization Certification, etc.
          1.2.5.4. Information. This would include calendar of events, what’s new, personnel
          data, Freedom Of Information Act, leave web, Thrift Savings Plan data, pay
          schedules, etc.
          1.2.5.5. Organization. Organization Charts and next-level subordinate activities.
          1.2.5.6. Administration/Administrative. Executive services, Tinker Pubs, DoD Pubs,
          Technical Orders, etc.
          1.2.5.7. Programs. All programs associated with each wing.
          1.2.5.8. Miscellaneous Links. Any web links that are used by most individuals in the
          wing.
          1.2.5.9. An optional Search Capability. If the search option is placed on the page the
          web page will have the capability to search a 12 character string.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. Organizational Commanders/Directors will:
       2.1.1. Appoint web page maintainers and information providers in writing IAW AFI 33-
       129, Paragraph 3.10.; send to 72 CS Base Web Master to the attention of the base web
       master (see attachment 1). Commanders/Directors should be cognizant of limiting the
       number of page maintainers to the minimum needed to support the organization. In the
       event that an outside organization is maintaining the organization’s web site the outside
       organization’s commander will appoint the Information Provider(s)/Content Manager(s)
       [web page maintainer].
       2.1.2. Direct a review of organizational web pages for content and changes every 6
       months and certify to the 72 CS Base Web Master that content is correct. This is critical
       to ensure that only current, relevant information is published to web site.
       2.1.3. Review, approve and sign all Change/Update Coordination Requests when web
       pages are changed. This request is accepted via e-mail or via official letter to the72
       ABW/PA organization mailbox by the Information Provider and/or OPR.
   2.2. 72 ABW/PA will:
       2.2.1. As outlined in a 3 Nov 03, memorandum, the Secretary of the Air Force Public
       Affairs assigned the Air Force News Agency with oversight responsibility for all Air
       Force public-facing web sites. AFNEWS launched the Air Force Public Web Program.
       The program systematically manages and standardizes how the Air Force publishes its
       web content. The Air Force Public Web serves as a global network for all the service’s
6                                                    TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009


    public web sites, including those originating at major commands, wings, and specialty
    organizations, such as the Thunderbirds or the National Museum. The web-based tool
    that brings all Air Force Public Web sites together into this central, standardized system
    is the Air Force Public Information Management System, or AFPIMS.
    2.2.2. The Air Force Public Information Management System (AFPIMS).
       2.2.2.1. The 72ABW/PA Site Manager will use AFPIMS as a web-based content
       management system that is designed to support Public Affairs Airmen with web
       content creation and publishing tasks. AFPIMS yields many benefits by allowing Air
       Force Public Web to run as one entity. One primary function of the AFPIMS is to
       implement the concept of corporate branding – providing a recognizable, unified
       portrayal of the Air Force organizational image among all public Air Force sites. All
       Air Force Web sites will “look” and “feel” the same.
       2.2.2.2. 72 ABW/PA Site Managers will use AFPIMS to publish news content, press
       releases, biographies, fact sheets, speeches, photos and graphics and build pages for
       Tinker AFB.
       2.2.2.3. 72 ABW/PA uses this system, which also preserves a practical, traceable
       workflow process that ensures the content is properly reviewed and approved for
       release. Therefore there is no need for Multi-disciplinary Review Board of public
       websites. It adds accountability to the process. When inappropriate material appears
       on a web site, the system can reveal specific details about the incident so that the
       issue can be resolved.
    2.2.3. AFPIMS User Roles
    2.2.3. 1. AFPIMS users.         Must be appointed in writing by organizational
    commander/director using Tinker Public Web Page Content Manager and Provider
    appointment letter and must complete a Content Managers and Provider user agreement,
    in which the 72ABW/PA Site Manager will maintain a copy on file. Any changes in
    personnel would require a new appointment letter and user agreement.
       2.2.3.2. The Site Manager. The 72 ABW/PA Site Managers manage the base or
       organizational presence in the AFPIMS and administer usernames, passwords, and
       permissions to their users. They can also build and organize web pages and content
       tabs as needed. Site Managers can add, create, approve, kill and delete content,
       within their own web site.
       2.2.3.3. The Content Manager. Subordinate to Site Managers, Content Managers
       serve as editors and can be found at any level. They must review the content in its
       pending state, and subsequently kill it or approve it. The system is designed so that
       Content Managers must approve all content before it can be published on a web site.
       Like Site Managers, Content Managers can add, create, approve, kill and delete
       content, site-wide.
       2.2.3.4. The Content Provider. Content Providers are authors or creators who
       provide content for their organization’s web site. Content Providers can be found at
       any level. They can add, create, and at times even modify their content in the system;
       however, they cannot approve, kill or delete content for their site. Content Providers
TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009                                                                  7


         can only submit material for their respective web sites; they have no approval
         authority. The Content Managers review content inputted into the AFPIMS by
         Content Providers. Content Managers determine whether to approve, kill or keep the
         content in pending status for further modifications before its release.
  2.3. 72d Communications Squadron (CS) will:
     2.3.1. Serve as the base web master.
     2.3.2. Design and maintain the base public internet and restricted intranet web sites IAW
     AFI 33-129, Paragraph 3.13. Currently Microsoft Front Page is the only web
     development software being supported at Tinker AFB. AF Portal does not use Microsoft
     Front Page. Static content intranet sites on AF Portal are developed using AF Portal PCP
     development site tools and templates.
     2.3.3. Serve as system administrator for the public external internet web server and the
     restricted intranet web server.
     2.3.4. Enforce standards and templates as approved by the 72 ABW/CC.
     2.3.5. Serve as the web page maintainer for the public external internet root web.
     2.3.6. Define procedures for information providers and page maintainers to place
     information on the web server.
     2.3.7. Grant and monitor access permissions to all web sites on public web sites.
     2.3.8. After confirmation, will remove web pages from the public Internet web site
     and/or the restricted Intranet web site if during review finds a conflict with Air Force
     standards or security set forth in AFI 33-129, Table 1 and 2, or AFI 35-101, Chapter 18.
     2.3.9. Establish a uniform page style for public internet and restricted intranet web pages
     IAW DoD, Air Force, AFMC and 72 ABW/PA instructions.
     2.3.10. Register the public internet and restricted intranet sites with Air Force LINK.
     2.3.11. Maintain a copy of the Internet Release Package (IRP) as defined in 3.4.3 for
     each web page approved by 72 ABW/PA. The IRP should be retained one year after web
     page is inactivated.
  2.4. Organizational Page Maintainer is responsible for content and updates of page/ site(s).
  AF Portal Information Provider is responsible for submitting updates to appointed AF Portal
  Content Manager and directly responsible for content of page/site(s). AF Portal Content
  Manager is responsible for day to day updating of appointed sites/pages.
     2.4.1. Must be appointed in writing by organizational commander/director using Web
     Page Maintainer appointment letter. This appointment letter must be submitted to verify
     current page maintainer (Attachment 2.2). Any changes in personnel requires a new page
     maintainer agreement be submitted.
     2.4.2. Will use a government or government-provided computer or resource to access
     Tinker’s public internet or restricted intranet and comply with this instruction. The 72 CS
     will provide space on the web development server for organizational page maintainers to
     develop all designs, changes and content to be tested and approved by the 72 CS web
     master prior to being published live.
8                                                        TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009


       2.4.3. Must complete and maintain an IRP for every web site. The purpose of the IRP is
       to ensure information disseminated through the base web servers complies with
       established policy and directives, is placed in the proper security environment, is
       accessible only by its intended audience and is managed effectively. This requires
       documentation of purpose, justification and approval for information release and
       assurance of proper format and page maintenance. An IRP consists of a Web Site Hosting
       Letter, Information Provider/Content Manager/Page Maintainer Appointment Letter,
       Page Maintainer Agreement Letter and Public or Restricted Web Site Coordination Form.
       Refer to attachment 2 for sample IRP package. All policies and samples of forms and
       letters     are     located      on      the 72     CS     Web        Services    site:
       https://afkm.wpafb.af.mil/ASPs/docman/Process/ProcessDOCMain.asp?DocID=307
       0100&Function=Download&FolderID=OO-SC-MC-76-11&Filter=OO-SC-MC-
       76&MimeExt= . A separate IRP must be accomplished for each web site maintained on
       the public internet and restricted intranet.
       2.4.4. Ensures all pages include required information (see Paragraph 4).
       2.4.5. Page Maintainer/Information Provider will be responsible for keeping the content
       up to date and accurate, the coordination of the information ensuring content is mission-
       related and has been reviewed for sensitivity of information, associated risk of loss and
       security features such as access control and encryption are sufficient.
       2.4.6. Will work with the organizational unit and operations security managers to ensure
       all information is suitable for transmission on the internet and make certain OPSEC is
       applied at all levels.
       2.4.7. The following disclaimer must be displayed when linking to non-government web
       sites (AFI 33-129, Paragraph 7): “The appearance of hyperlinks does not constitute
       endorsement by the U.S. Air Force of this web site or the information, products, or
       services contained therein. For other than authorized activities such as military exchanges
       and morale, welfare and recreation sites, the U.S. Air Force does not exercise any
       editorial control over the information you may find at these locations.”
    2.5. Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR).
       2.5.1. 72 ABW/PA is the OPR for the content of the Tinker public and private home
       pages. OC-ALC organizations will submit and approve content additions and changes
       through 72 ABW/PA. Final decisions for content conflicts will be 72 ABW/PA.
       2.5.2. Files may not be copied from other sources on the internet and placed on web
       pages. Rather, reference the information via a hyperlink. This does not prevent
       information providers from mirroring or replicating information for performance or
       security reasons.
       2.5.2. Care must be taken when adapting existing artwork. Copyrighted or proprietary
       artwork may not be used without documented permission from the owner.
    2.6. Displaying the Air Force symbol and logotype:
       2.6.1. Both the Air Force symbol and logotype are copyrighted. Changing the size of the
       symbol, as necessary, is encouraged and appropriate – however, other manipulations of
TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009                                                                   9


      the symbol are not. Examples of correct and incorrect Air Force Symbol use are found at
      http://www.af.mil/library/symbol/displaying.asp
      2.6.2. Although using the logotype “U.S. Air Force” is not mandatory in conjunction
      with use of the symbol, the preferred position when the logotype is used is beneath the
      symbol. It is acceptable to place the logotype on the right or left side of the symbol but
      not above.
   2.7. Web pages for individuals or biographies are appropriate only for organizational
   commanders/directors. Listing hobbies, favorite vacation sites, family photos, resumes, and
   preferred web sites is not appropriate. Biographies must not reveal names, addresses or other
   identifying material of family members of U.S. Air Force employees or members.
   2.8. In accordance with DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation (JER), publicly accessible
   DoD web sites shall not require or encourage users to choose any specific browser software.
   2.9. Commercial advertising and product endorsement is prohibited on Air Force web sites.
   No graphics or logos depicting companies or products will appear on public pages.
3. Requesting Authorization to Create/Maintain Web Pages.
   3.1. Units must submit a signed copy of the IRP to the base web master before a web space
   will be created on the development web server (Attachment 2).
   3.2. Once web site development is complete, submit a signed copy of the Public or
   Restricted Web Site Coordination Form and the base web master will create the web space
   on the production web server. Maintain these documents for the IRP.
   3.3. Units may change their page maintainers without submitting a new IRP, provided they
   update the Page Maintainer Appointment Letter, Page Maintainer Agreement, and the POC
   information on the web site. A signed copy of the Page Maintainer Agreement Letter will be
   forwarded to the base web master.
      3.3.1. The number of page maintainers should be limited to the minimum needed to
      support the organization.
      3.3.2. When private sites/pages are initially established, the full review process is
      required. Changes or updates to those pages/sites only require commander/director or
      equivalent review and approval.
   3.4. Page Layout and Maintenance. Organizations must ensure web pages are professionally
   presented, current, accurate, factual, and related to the organizational mission and follow the
   guidance and policy as described in AFI 33-129, Paragraph 5.1.

4. Prescribed Forms:

TINKER AFB Form 555, Public Web Site Coordination Form
TINKER AFB Form 556, Restricted Web Site Coordination Form




                                            ALLEN J. JAMERSON, Colonel, USAF
10               TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009


     Commander
TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009                                                               11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Web Site Administration Policies and Procedures ( )
AFI 33-129, Web Management and Internet Use
AFI 35-101, Chapter 18, Web Site Management
DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation
DOD Directive 5230.9, Clearance of DOD information for Public Release
DOD Instruction 5230.29, Security and Policy Review of DOD Information for Public Release
12                                                     TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009


                                        Attachment 2
                         INTERNET RELEASE PACKAGE (IRP)

A completed IRP will consist of the following:

1. Web Site Hosing Request (Attachment 3)

2. Appointment letter for Web Page Maintainer (Attachment 4)

3. Web page Maintainer Agreement (Attachment 5)

4. Restricted Web Site Coordination, TINKER AFB Form 556 (Attachment 6) or Public Web
Site Coordination, TINKER AFB Form 555 (Attachment 7)
TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009                          13


                                   Attachment 3
                     SAMPLE WEB SITE HOSTING REQUEST

Figure A3.1. Sample Web Site Hosting Request.
14                                                 TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009


                                    Attachment 4
               SAMPLE APPOINTMENT OF WEB PAGE MAINTAINERS

Figure A4.1.   Sample Appointment of Web Page Maintainers.
TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009                           15


                                   Attachment 5
              SAMPLE OF WEB PAGE MAINTAINER AGREEMENT

Figure A5.1. Sample of Web Page Maintainer Agreement.
16                                                 TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009


                                    Attachment 6
          SAMPLE OF RESTRICTED WEB SITE COORDINATION FORM

Figure A6.1. Sample of Restricted Web Site Coordination Form.
TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009                              17


                                     Attachment 7
             SAMPLE OF PUBLIC WEB SITE COORDINATION FORM

Figure A7.1. Sample of Public Web Site Coordination Form
18                                                  TINKERAFBI33-129 29 JULY 2009


                                     Attachment 8
         SAMPLE OF REQUEST FOR FTP SITE ACCESS TO WEB SERVER

Figure A8.1. Sample of Request for FTP Site Access to Web Server.
