BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                         21-43

                                                                                 5 MARCH 2014

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                      CRASHED, DAMAGED OR DISABLED
                                                         AIRCRAFT RECOVERY (CDDAR)
                                                                       PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        This publication is available on the Air Force e-publishing website
                      http://www.e-publis hing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 72 ABW/XPX                                                         Certified by: 72 ABW/XP
                                                                                 (Lawrence Miller)
                                                                                         Pages: 17
Supersedes:    TINKERAFBI 21-43,
               2 June 2011


This instruction establishes joint procedures for the recovery of crashed, damaged or disabled
aircraft on Tinker AFB or within the geographical area of responsibility of the base. This
instruction can be implemented in conjunction with Tinker AFB Plan 10-2, Installation
Emergency Management Plan (IEMP), Appendix 3 to Annex A, Aircraft Accidents. This
instruction is applicable to all organizations that may be tasked to support aircraft recovery
operations, including Tinker associate units. These organizations must be prepared to rapidly
deploy crash recovery equipment and personnel for crashed, damaged or disabled aircraft
deemed necessary by Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex and Headquarters, Tinker Air Force
Base (TAFB.) It applies to the Air Reserve and Air National Guard units, except where noted
otherwise. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the office of
primary responsibility (OPR), 72 ABW/XPX, using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at http://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
 2                                                         TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision adds special instructions for 552d Air Control Wing (552 ACW) organizations and
incorporates updated 76th Aircraft Maintenance Group (72 AMXG) processes to the TAFBI. It
also includes administrative changes driven by the Five 19
1. Responsibilities
     1.1. General. The Crashed, Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Recovery (CDDAR) recovery
     program applies to all host and associate flying organizations. It will also be used to recover
     transient aircraft if within the capability of the 76 AMXG CDDAR Team. It is des igned to
     recover crashed/damaged or disabled aircraft in a minimum time period and return the
     airfield to operational status consistent with the following consideration(s):
        1.1.1. Open runway for operational use.
        1.1.2. Prevent secondary damage to the aircraft.
        1.1.3. Preserve evidence for mishap or accident investigations.
        1.1.4. Mitigate the mishap’s impact on the owning organization’s flying mission
        requirements.
        1.1.5. Input from the flying organizations on their mission requirements must be
        considered.
     1.2. Support for CDDAR after normal duty hours (0700-1700).
        1.2.1. Immediate response by the 76 AMXG CDDAR Team and required associate units
        is required during normal operating periods or duty hours. All units will develop
        emergency recall or mobilization rosters to identify and notify required recovery team
        members outside normal operating hours. Units must also account for team members
        being deployed, TDY and on leave.
            1.2.1.1. (Added-552 ACW) For 552 ACW response during holiday and off-duty
            hours, the 552 MXS Production Supervisor will serve as the 552 ACW’s crash
            recovery point of contact. The Production Supervisor will notify the 552 MXS
            Repair and Reclamation (R&R) Section to provide qualified CDDAR personnel to the
            76 AMXG CDDAR Team.
     1.3. The 72 ABW Commander (72 ABW/CC) or designated representative, with the advice
     and assistance of the Airfield Manager (72 OSS/OSA), notifies the Emergency Operations
     Center (EOC) and determines the removal conditions which are designated as:
        1.3.1. Emergency. This condition requires immediate runway clearance at the risk of
        losing equipment and evidence. The runway must be cleared in 30 minutes or less.
        1.3.2. Urgent. This condition requires runway clearance as soon as possible after
        completion of rescue, firefighting and explosive ordinance disposal (EOD) operations
        (See Para 2.4, NOTE). The runway will be cleared in less than 1 hour and 30 minutes,
        unless EOD considerations dictate otherwise, using techniques identified in applicable
        technical publications. The Incident Commander (IC) will make this determination.
TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014                                                                    3


     1.3.3. Routine. This condition allows sufficient time to use recovery techniques to
     minimize further damage to aircraft, preserve evidence and precludes exposing personnel
     or equipment to danger.
     1.3.4. During all emergency response situations the IC is the final authority for
     determining when the mishap site is safe, and when the investigating authority and/or
     CDDAR team may approach the mishap site and/or conduct recovery operations.
     1.3.5. The IC will decide which first responder actions may or may not proceed. The IC,
     in consultation with the Airfield Manager, Base Safety Officer (72ABW/SE) and the
     CDDAR Team Chief, will then decide which removal methods are best.
     1.3.6. Tinker AFB has two active runways. If an aircraft crash-lands in the checkerboard
     area between the two, it may be necessary to clear the aircraft/wreckage as soon as
     possible to facilitate reactivation of at least one of the runways. If necessary, this action
     will be directed by 72 ABW/CC upon the recommendation of the Airfield Manager or
     designated official.
     1.3.7. Typical incident sequence of events:
        1.3.7.1. Immediately after the incident, first responders precede IAW with TAFB
        Plan 10-2, Appendix 3 to Annex A. This initiates the Response Phase of the plan.
        1.3.7.2. The IC ensures initial rescue, firefighting, security and safeing of the aircraft
        is performed. No one other than first responders can enter the mishap area. The
        mishap scene must be determined safe by the IC prior to any investigation or CDDAR
        actions.
        1.3.7.3. The incident aircraft and its equipment must not be disturbed or removed
        unless directed or released by the IC, Interim Safety Board (ISB) President or
        Impoundment Official/owning unit representative. Control of the mishap scene/site
        remains with the IC. Once the scene is safe to enter, command of the incident
        aircraft/wreckage is transferred from the IC to the Board President or Impoundment
        Official/owning unit representative appointed by the Investigating Authority.
        1.3.7.4. Under Emergency or Urgent removal conditions, the recovery/investigation
        phase may be waived by the 72 ABW Commander.
        1.3.7.5. While the initial response is in progress the CDDAR team members should
        prepare and posture the equipment and materials required to recover the aircraft.
        1.3.7.6. The unit owning the aircraft will work through their designated
        representatives to the EOC to advise the IC of any special considerations. When the
        incident site is secure the owning unit representatives will coordinate actions through
        the EOC to provide assistance or information on special recovery requirements (e.g.
        classified material/equipment).
        1.3.7.7. When response actions are completed, the IC will transfer control of the site
        to a Recovery Operations Officer to direct actions at the incident site. The CDDAR
        Team Chief then coordinates recovery actions with appointed investigation officials.
 4                                                        TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014


            1.3.7.8. Emergency or urgent removal conditions may bypass the deliberate
            recovery/investigation phase and dictate expedient ad- hoc planning and execution of
            CDDAR duties.
            1.3.7.9. Under routine removal conditions when the investigation actions are
            complete, the Investigation Authority transfers command of the incident
            aircraft/wreckage to the CDDAR Team Chief to have the recovery or salvage teams
            restore, reclaim or dispose of the aircraft. Once incident aircraft/wreckage is
            recovered command of the aircraft/wreckage is transferred back to the Investigative
            Authority.
2. Host Base/Associate CDDAR Responsibilities
     2.1. The 72 ABW Plans and Programs Office, 72 ABW/XP, is the overall program manager
     for the CDDAR program for Tinker AFB. 76 AMXG, 137/507 ARW, 552 ACW, SCW-1
     and Transient Alert (72OSS/OSM) are responsible for program support to include aircraft
     recovery operations, qualification and training of assigned recovery team members and
     inspection of and maintenance of assigned equipment used for this operation.
     2.2. The Host Wing, 72ABW, has overall responsibility for recovery of host, associate, or
     transient crashed or disabled aircraft on or off Tinker AFB. Since associate units are
     responsible for the condition/repair of assigned aircraft, associate units must be actively
     involved in assisting the host base in recovery operations during real world responses.
     Technical expertise, technical data, mission design series (MDS) unique tools/special
     equipment, expert manpower and airframe/system familiarization are all valuable
     contributions associate units make to the host CDDAR program.
     2.3. CDDAR will be accomplished using a Team Tinker approach. Team members for
     executing CDDAR capability will consist of individuals from 76AMXG and all Tinker
     associate flying units. Team members from the unit owning the aircraft will be represented
     during aircraft recovery. If the Team or owning unit requires assistance, qualified members
     from other associate units can be requested. Equipment, vehicles, personal protective
     equipment (PPE) and any other CDDAR requirements needed to recover Tinker assigned
     aircraft will be identified by each associate flying unit and listed in this instruction. The
     overall CDDAR Team Chief will best maximize sharing of resources and specifically
     identify to each associate which resources they will be responsible for maintaining.
     2.4. Host units provide recovery support for all associate units as established in support
     agreements (SA). CDDAR procedures will be coordinated with aircraft maintenance
     (76AMXG), the Fire Department (72ABW/CEF), Safety (72 ABW/SE), Civil Engineer
     (72ABW/CE), Emergency Management (72ABW/CEX), Explosive Ordinance Disposal
     (EOD) Aircraft Support (if required, see NOTE), Security (72 SFS), Bioenvironmental (72
     MDG), Airfield Manager (72OSS), Logistics Squadron (72 LRS, support agreements and
     vehicles), Contracting (AFSC/PK) and other on/off base agencies as applicable. NOTE:
     72ABW/CEF can only perform emergency ground safeing of most ejection systems. Egress
     technicians must be consulted to conduct render safe procedures to ensure area is safe for
     investigation and recovery operations. If weapons are on board EOD Aircraft Support will
     need to be called in IAW TAFB Plan 10-2.
TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014                                                                     5


   2.5. Host units must ensure they are capable of providing and supporting recovery operations
   for all base assigned aircraft, to include associate aircraft. Associate units are required to
   provide team personnel, participate in host training exercises and maintain specialized
   equipment inventories.
   2.6. Associate units must coordinate with host for CDDAR recovery support, training,
   exercises and equipment inventories.
   2.7. Host and associate commanders are responsible for ensuring sufficient equipment is
   available for mobility/deployed operations, as authorized in the applicable allowance
   standards.
   2.8. 72 ABW Program Manager will ensure the support agreement office (72 LRS/LGRDX)
   includes CDDAR support in the agreements with associate flying units.
   2.9. The AFLCMC/HBSLB Process Control and Improvement Division will provide
   personnel and expertise on structural damage evaluation to the 76 AMXG CDDAR Team
   Chief. Selected individual(s) will bring applicable Technical Data to aid the mishap and to
   evaluate structural damage.
3. Vehicle/Equipment Requirements:
   3.1. The 76th Aircraft Maintenance Group Commander (76 AMXG/CC) will make the final
   determination on unit vehicle/support equipment requirements, within the limits provided by
   allowance standard(s). See Attachment 3 for vehicle/support equipment requirements.
   3.2. Vehicle Maintenance and Operations, 72LRS/LGRV, will assist in locating additional
   trucks, tractor trailers, etc. up to the limits of the u-drive fleet, to transport CDDAR support
   equipment to the mishap site, as well as transport wreckage to the wreckage assembly point.
   72 LRS/LGRV may institute the Vehicle Priority Recall Listing (VPRL) to provide support
   as needed. 72 LRS/LGRV will validate and coordinate lease agreements for additional
   tractors and trailers if required.
   3.3. Depending on the nature of the mishap, associate units shall be required to supply
   additional specialized equipment to support the recovery of their aircraft.
   3.4. Civil Engineer Directorate, 72ABW/CE, will provide available heavy equipment
   (bulldozers, dump trucks, etc.) and drivers to support recovery operations.
   3.5. When 76 AMXG cannot support heavy equipment requirements such as additional
   cranes, AFSC/PZIO, Operational Contracting Branch, maintains a contingency vendor listing
   of contractors to provide cranes and other equipment for emergency operations. These are
   established with local suppliers in accordance with lease procedures established in AFI 24-
   302, Para 2.29. Leases must be coordinated through 72LRS/LGRV prior to submission to
   contracting. The AFSC/PZIO or PZA representative to the EOC will be contacted to
   implement these leases.
4. Inspection and Inventory
   4.1. 76AMXG/SD will inspect all recovery equipment to include air bags, manifolds, jacks,
   slings, shoring, etc., for serviceability before and after each incident/exercise use. Periodic
   equipment inspections must be accomplished per intervals established in technical orders or
   as a minimum annually. Perform operational checks according to applicable directives
 6                                                      TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014


     during exercise and/or inventory reviews. Document inspections and maintenance in
     Maintenance Information System (MIS) on AFTO Forms 244, Industrial/Support Equipment
     Record, or on MAJCOM approved form.
     4.2. Associate organizations may record inventory documentation according to their own
     procedures.
5. 76th Aircraft Maintenance Operations Control Center (MOC) will:
     5.1. Notify the Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex Commander (OC-ALC/CC) of an
     incident upon notification by the 552d Air Control Wing Command Post (CP).
     5.2. When notified of aircraft mishap, inflight emergencies or ground incidents the MOC
     will notify the Ground Support Equipment Branch (QPO), Fuels Management Flight
     (72LRS/LGRF) and the 566AMXS/MXDVAC Aircraft Servicing Section Chief (Team
     Chief) who, in turn, will notify CDDAR qualified personnel (Attachment 2). Notification
     will include call sign, aircraft type, nature of emergency, position of aircraft, pilot’s
     intentions, Estimated Time of Arrival (ETA), landing runway, wind, fuel remaining,
     personnel on board and known extent of the aircraft damage. Servicing Section must be
     contacted upon termination of emergency or incident.
     5.3. For OC-ALC aircraft ensure all aircraft records are secured by the respective
     maintenance squadrons. All other aircraft records will be obtained IAW TAFB Plan 91-1.
     5.4. Contact the 72LRS/LGRF, Fuels Management Flight, to impound any fuel trucks used
     during ground refueling operations if mishap occurred after aircraft refueling at or in
     Programmed Depot Maintenance Scheduling System (PDMSS) at Tinker AFB.
     5.5. Request 72LRS/LGRF de- fuel equipment be placed in standby status for possible uses
     in recovery operations (i.e., aircraft nose gear collapse).
        5.5.1. 72LRS/LGRF will obtain required fuel samples IAW TAFB Plan 91-1.
        5.5.2. 72ABW/SE will notify base where aircraft was last fueled to obtain required fuel
        samples per TAFB Plan 91-1.
     5.6. Contact the Aerospace Ground Equipment contractor that additional equipment (air
     compressors, light carts, jacks, etc.) may need to be transported to the incident site.
     5.7. Contact appropriate squadron, to identify Subject Matter Experts (SME) in the event
     aircraft mishap involves PDM aircraft and to prepare necessary aircraft specific equipment
     upon request from 76AMXG CDDAR Team Chief.
     5.8. Coordinate with CDDAR Tow Team Supervisor to assemble tow team, tow vehicle and
     tow bar, to prepare for emergency tow of aircraft from runway.
6. 76th Aircraft Maintenance Group (76AMXG) CDDAR Team Chief will:
     6.1. Be a Senior NCO or civilian equivalent. 76 AMXG may waive the grade requirement
     by obtaining approval of the 76AMXG/CC. This waiver will be tracked on the Special
     Certification Roster (SCR). NOTE: Aircraft recovery efforts may require AFSC (Air Force
     Specialty Code) specific personnel to accomplish special tasks such as identifying and
     handling of classified equipment, life support or egress systems specific tasks, etc.
     6.2. Establish the “working level” CDDAR program within 76 AMXG.
TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014                                                                   7


  6.3. Develop, in conjunction with the Maintenance Training Flight, course control
  documents for crash recovery training.
  6.4. Review support agreements, TAFB Plan 10-2, IEMP, and TAFB Plan 91-1, Aircraft
  Mishap Response Plan, annually. Provide inputs for changes as required.
  6.5. Inform 76AMXG/CC, 72ABW/CC and the CDDAR Program Manager in writing of
  equipment shortages/serviceability that precludes effective to CDDAR support.
  6.6. Ensure sufficient personnel/teams are trained and equipment is available to support
  CDDAR operations. This includes:
     6.6.1. Basic equipment operation (e.g. light carts, air bag blowers, generators, etc.)
     6.6.2. Familiarization and training on any unique characteristics/hazards/materials for
     aircraft (i.e. F-16 EPU hydrazine, C-130 ballast depleted uranium, aircraft composite
     materials, etc.) and document training. (See Para. 10.5)
     6.6.3. Availability and proper use of personnel protective equipment (PPE) as
     determined by technical data and the base Bioenvironmental Engineer.
     6.6.4. 76AMXG/MXDVAC CDDAR Team Chief will ensure an adequate number of the
     Servicing Section CDDAR personnel are respirator qualified and ensure Team Supervisor
     maintains a respirator program. Bioenvironmental Engineering Office (BIO) on-call cell
     phone number for after-hour incidents or mishaps (405) 823-3949/593-7805
  6.7. Ensure special qualifications for personnel are identified and documented. Identify
  individual team member qualifications for specific equipment operations (e.g., towing,
  jacking, support equipment, special purpose vehicle, etc.) (See Attachment 2)
  6.8. Ensure adequate tools and support equipment for recovery (i.e. air bags, slings,
  manifolds, tow bars, shoring, etc.) are serviceable and available. Maintain a list of all
  CDDAR tools and equipment.
  6.9. Conduct/participate in annual training exercises.     Coordinate exercises with the 72
  ABW Exercise Evaluation Office (72ABW/XPO).
  6.10. Annually demonstrate team’s capability to recover crashed/damaged small and large
  aircraft.
  6.11. CDDAR exercises must be coordinated with Quality Assurance and applicab le wing
  agencies.
  6.12. CDDAR exercises will consist of lifting device positioning, sling hookup, and
  simulating hoisting or lifting. Accomplish hoisting or lifting IAW applicable aircraft T.O.
  During hoisting or lifting exercises, observe surface wind limitations. NOTE: When using
  a crash crane, the unit will accomplish removal procedures up through attaching the lifting
  sling to aircraft and applying tension to cables. When ground instructional trainer aircraft
  (GITA) or aircraft battle damage repair (ABDR) aircraft is used, the aircraft should be lifted.
  6.13. Coordinate with unit QA Weight and Balance manager when weight and center of
  gravity (CG) conditions are unknown.
  6.14. Coordinate recovery actions with the appropriate contractor(s) and weapons system
  expert(s) as needed.
8                                                        TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014


    6.15. If required, request a tow vehicle with tow bar, two vehicle operator, tow team
    Supervisor/or Tow Team Leader to stand by during recovery operations. Tow Supervisor/or
    Tow Team Leader will take direction from the 76 AMXG CDDAR Team Chief. Tow team
    will remain available to the CDDAR Team Chief for any assistance necessary to aid in the
    aircraft recovery.
    6.16. Maintain and ensure team Supervisors maintain a call out roster of all CDDAR Team
    Members to ensure supportable 24-hr operations, to support aircraft mishaps/incidents as
    directed by the 76AMXG/CC. NOTE: There are two distinct phases of an aircraft mishap
    response and recovery. First responders face the probability of an aircraft fire. As the
    composite material burns, gases, vapors and solid particles are released into the smoke
    plume. Recovery team members may be exposed to fibers and inhalable dusts as aircraft
    parts are moved, modified by cutting, breaking, twisting, or hammering. Personnel tasked to
    participate in a crash or post-crash response, recovery, maintenance and/or clean-up
    operations must be aware of/briefed on all possible health issues involved. Units must ensure
    local policies and procedures for handling crash damaged composites are addressed; to
    include training and personnel protective equipment.
7. 72ABW through the Emergency Operations Center (EOC) and the Incident
Commander (IC) will:
    7.1. Ensure all emergency response actions are completed and it is safe to approach the
    aircraft before directing the 76AMXG CDDAR Team Chief to begin recovery operations.
    7.2. Provide for the incident site security and maintain the site cordon as long as necessary
    as directed by the IC. (72d Security Forces Squadron (72 SFS))
    7.3. Provide vehicle and fuel support per paragraphs 3 and 5, above.          (72d Logistics
    Readiness Squadron (72 LRS))
    7.4. Direct all personnel to stay clear of the recovery site unless requested by the Incide nt
    Commander (IC).
    7.5. The IC may establish a staging area to hold equipment until required at the site. The
    Maintenance representative on site will ensure CDDAR teams and all additional maintenance
    response personnel are briefed on staging area procedures and site safety requirements.
    7.6. Provide contracting support to obtain any required equipment and supplies not available
    on base. The Operational Contracting Division (AFSC/PZIO) maintains an Emergency
    Management Contingency Kit (kit contains binder with contracting & emergency mgt
    regulations, contingency vendor listing, laptop, maps, admin forms, etc.). The contingency
    vendor listing contains names/numbers of contractors who have verbally pledged to respond
    24-7 if called. The AFSC/PZIO representative to the EOC will let a contract with the vendor
    for the required material when notified by the CDDAR team.
    7.7. Provide relief facilities (porta-johns) to the incident site as needed. These will be
    requested through the 72ABW/CE Customer Service Desk, 734-3117. Movement to the site
    must be coordinated with 72 OSS.
    7.8. Ensure requirements of TAFB Plan 91-1, Aircraft Mishap Response Plan, are
    accomplished. (72d Air Base Wing Safety Office (72ABW/SE))
TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014                                                                    9


8. Reports: IAW AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting.
9. CDDAR Recovery Team Qualifications:
   9.1. All team members must be qualified in basic CDDAR operations IAW AFI 21-101,
   paragraph 14.10.6.
   9.2. All qualifications for civilian team members will be recorded in Production Acceptance
   Certification. Qualifications for military team members will be recorded in their
   organization’s appropriate training records.
   9.3. Ensure the CDDAR Team Chief and alternate and organizational Maintenance Officers
   assigned to CDDAR Team support are familiar with Disaster Response Force (DRF)
   procedures by taking the AF Emergency Response Operations (AERO) course introduction
   training. CDDAR operations are part of the recovery phase of incident management and
   these individuals must understand their basic role in order to direct the team.
10. Training Requirements:
   10.1. All team members must be trained in recovery procedures according to AFI 21-101,
   paragraph 14.10.7, MDS specific technical data, other applicable Air Force and MAJCOM
   directives and unit-developed training guide.
   10.2. All recovery team members must receive initial/annual training comprised of both
   academic and hands on training/exercises which should include actual lifting of an aircraft.
   Aircraft lifting exercises may be accomplished by using owned aircraft, utilizing training
   hulks or participating with other organizations possessing training assets. Ensure all training
   is documented in the appropriate system for civilians and military members. NOTE:
   According to the AFI all initial training must be hands on, and although the AFI states that
   training should include lifting a unit possessed aircraft, it is recommend all new team
   members attend the course at Davis-Monthan AFB. Although 76 AMXG aircraft are “depot
   possessed”, they are not "unit" possessed. 76 AMXG will not accept the risk of lifting
   “depot possessed” aircraft. Also, if 76 AMXG personnel attempt actual lifts on aircraft, this
   would require scheduling depot aircraft for this training and impact production. Follow on
   (refresher) training can be accomplished organically at the unit's discretion. If possible, all
   team members may be able to train on one of the associate unit’s aircraft when that unit
   accomplishes their training.
   10.3. Environmental, Safety, and Health Hazards: The key for developing a safe and
   effective CDDAR program is communication and coordination. The unit maintenance crash
   recovery OPR must ensure the 72MDG Bio-Environmental Engineering Flight (BEF) is
   consulted and directly involved in determining personnel health hazards, training required
   and appropriate levels of PPE.
   10.4. The 72 ABW Exercise Evaluation Office, 72ABW/XPO, will assist the host wing,
   OC-ALC Training Office and unit training offices in scheduling and managing training
   exercises for CDDAR recovery personnel. This can be done in conjunction with a scheduled
   MARE or as a separate training event.
   10.5. In accordance with OSHA29CFR1910.1200, the BEF will provide annual Hazard
   Communication (HazCom) training to emergency and first responders for all airframes
   assigned to Tinker AFB to include the potential health hazards associated with each assigned
 10                                                      TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014


   airframe and the appropriate protective measures to be utilized during response operations.
   The BEF will also provide comprehensive just- in-time training for emergency and first
   responders and CDDAR Team members to include the potential health hazards associated
   with the downed aircraft and the appropriate protective measures to be utilized during
   response or recovery operations. This may also be required for non-assigned aircraft
   accidents that Tinker responds to. (NOTE: 72ABW/CEF already has this training as part of
   their aircraft familiarization course.) The CDDAR Team chief is also required to contact
   BEF to schedule annual hazard communication training. CDDAR team should also develop
   and maintain team specific hazard communication presentation for potential airframe
   responses.
11. Aircraft Servicing Section (566 AMXS/MXDVAC) will:
   11.1. Carry out custodial and storage responsibilities for special purpose equipment
   specifically assigned to the crash recovery mission.
   11.2. The CDDAR Team Chief will maintain recall rosters and coordinate with the MOC as
   to status of CDDAR Team during off duty hours when notified of crash event. (See
   Attachment 2)
   11.3. Contact and ensure CDDAR team is assembled and available to respond to the
   recovery site when directed by the IC.
   11.4. Assemble CDDAR crash trailer and equipment for rapid response to crash site upon
   request of IC. Transportation of the CDDAR crash recovery trailer and equipment in support
   of an off base mishap operation will be made upon the authorization of the IC.
   11.5. Ensure complete safety briefings are given, detailing hazards to personnel and
   equipment and ensure proper PPE is available and properly used.
   11.6. Team will notify the MOC who, in-turn, will report and provide the IC with number of
   qualified 566 AMXS/MXDVAC personnel and available equipment.
   11.7. If required, provide a tow vehicle with tow bar, tow vehicle operator and tow team to
   stand by during recovery operations. Tow team will take directions from the CDDAR Team
   Chief or the IC. The tow team will remain available to the CDDAR team for any assistance
   necessary to aid in aircraft recovery operation.
   11.8. Request additional expertise or equipment through the MOC. If the items or personnel
   are not under the jurisdiction of 76 AMXG they will be requested through the IC.
   11.9. Be responsible for directing and coordinating CDDAR operations as directed by the IC
   or the CDDAR Team Chief.
   11.10. For longer term recovery operations the Team Chief can request a porta-john to be
   placed near the incident site through 72 ABW/CE, Customer Service Desk, 734-3117 (24/7
   number). This must be approved by Base Operations, 72 OSS/OSAM, 734-2191, and the
   Team Chief will need to arrange to escort the delivery vehicle while on the airfield.
   CAUTION: The crash site will only be disturbed to the extent necessary to eliminate a
   situation that is detrimental to the aircraft, support equipment or personnel. The area will be
   maintained in an undisturbed state until the aircraft is released to the Safety Investigation
   Board (SIB) President by the IC or appropriate authority. Once the SIB has determined the
   aircraft can be moved, the aircraft will be turned over to maintenance by the SIB President.
TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014                                                                   11


   Once recovery actions begin, ONLY personnel designated by the CDDAR team will enter
   the recovery area.
12. Tinker AFB Associate Units will:
   12.1. Assign unit personnel to support CDDAR duties. The associate team will be prepared
   to perform assigned airframe related maintenance duties and assist and provide expertise in
   CDDAR situations to the CDDAR Team Chief for the recovery effort.
      12.1.1. (Added-552 ACW) The 552 MXS R&R Section Chief will ensure a minimum
      of two certified Team Chiefs and five qualified team members are assigned to the R&R
      Section.
   12.2. Determine type and quantity of specialized CDDAR tools, equipment and personnel
   required to recover their organization’s aircraft. Associates will procure and maintain
   specialized equipment to support recovery of their aircraft. Associates will establish an
   inventory listing and coordinate with 72LRS to ensure accountable items are listed on
   organizational equipment accounts. Changes in required resources will be identified to the
   CDDAR Team Chief within 60 days.
      12.2.1. Associate units will coordinate their specialized equipment requirements with
      other flying units and the CDDAR Team Chief to avoid duplication of inventories.
      12.2.2. If the CDDAR Team Chief needs a piece of specialized equipment possessed by
      any associate unit to recover an aircraft, the Team Chief will direct the possessing unit to
      provide the needed equipment for the recovery operation.
      12.2.3. (Added-552 ACW) The 552MXS currently has and maintains the following
      specialized equipment to perform aircraft jack operations: aircraft jack pads, 30 ton
      jacks, and 40 ton jacks. The 566AMXS currently has and maintains all other required
      specialized equipment to support CDDAR capabilities. The 552 MXS R&R Section
      Chief will ensure a review of technical data is accomplished for all E-3 aircraft
      modifications to determine if any new specialized equipment is required to support
      recovery efforts.
   12.3. 552 ACW and 507 ARW: Provide support augmentees to the CDDAR Team Chief as
   needed (consider personnel from all AFSCs for unique aircraft requirements, (e.g. classified
   handling).
      12.3.1. (Added-552 ACW) When requested, the 552MXG will provide support
      augmentees. 552 AMXS will provide personnel for ground handling of E-3 aircraft (e.g.,
      defuel, LOX drain, and towing) and 552MXS will provide personnel to declassify the
      aircraft.
12.4. STRATCOMMWING-1: Train and qualify assigned Emergency Reclamation Team
(ERT) personnel/CDDAR members in accordance with COMNAVAIRFORINST 4790.2,
OPNAVINST 5100.23 and SCW-1 NAMSOPS.

12.5. Inspect and maintain assigned CDDAR resources.Notify the CDDAR Team Chief, 72
ABW/CC and the CDDAR Program Manager in writing if any of their assigned
equipment/resources are out of service.
 12                                                       TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014


   12.6. Initiate their organization’s crash recovery checklist in the event of a mishap.
       12.6.1. (Added-552 ACW) The 552ACW crash recovery checklists are located in the
       552 ACW Mishap Response Plan 91-1.
   12.7. Take part in all training required by 76AMXG.
   12.8. Submit all required reports to their organization’s higher headquarters in the event of a
   mishap.
       12.8.1. (Added-552 ACW) The 552ACW will direct all documents to the 552
       ACW/SE.
   12.9. Provide the EOC, 76 AMXG MOC and the CDDAR Team Chief points of contact for
   recall of their organization’s CDDAR support team.
       12.9.1. (Added-552 ACW) The 552MXS Production Supervisor will serve as the
       552 MXS crash recover point of contact. The Production Supervisor will notify 552
       MXS R&R Section Chief to provide CDDAR personnel. Any changes to support team
       rosters and/or qualifications of personnel will be submitted quarterly to the 76 AMXG
       CDDAR Team Chief.
13. Transient Aircraft:
   13.1. Transient Alert (72OSS/OSM) will respond to the IC as requested through the EOC to
   provide initial site assessment for the aircraft involved.
   13.2. Airfield Operations (72OSS/OSA) will notify and coordinate with the aircraft’s home
   unit of assignment for required expertise, personnel and support equipment.
   13.3. The 76AMXG CDDAR Team will recover transient aircraft if possible. If the
   expertise and equipment required to perform CDDAR operations are beyond their
   capabilities the aircraft’s home station will have to provide support. In some cases the 76
   AMXG CDDAR Team Chief or the IC may request assistance from associate units for the
   recovery of transient aircraft. (In some cases the CDDAR Team Chief may be able to
   request support by the 76AMXG or another installation’s Expeditionary Maintenance
   (EDMX) team if available.)
   13.4. If weapons are on board the aircraft an EOD team will need to be requested IAW
   TAFB Plan 10-2.




                                             CHRISTOPHER P. AZZANO, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander
TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014                                                        13


                                      Attachment 1
         GL0SSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 6 Sep 2011
AFI 21-101, Aircraft and Equipment Maintenance Management, 26 Jul 2010
AFMC Supplement 1 to AFI 21-101, 26 Apr 2012
AFI 23-101, Material Management, 8 Aug 2013
AFMAN 10-2504, Air Force Incident Management Guidance for Major Accidents and Natural
Disasters, 13 Mar 2013
TO 00-105-9, Aircraft Emergency Rescue Information, 31 Mar 2011, Revision 15
Tinker AFB Plan 10-2, Installation Emergency Management Plan (IEMP), 31 Jul 2013
Tinker AFB Plan 91-1, Aircraft Mishap Response Plan, 21 Oct 2011
552 ACW Mishap Response Plan 91-1, 3 May 2011
Adopted Forms
AFTO Form 244, Industrial/Support Equipment Record
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
76AMXG/CC—76th Aircraft Maintenance Group Commander
ABW—Air Base Wing
AFB—Air Force Base
AFLCMC/HBSLB—Process Control and Improvement Division
AFSC—Air Force Sustainment Center
AMXG—Aircraft Maintenance Group
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
BEF—72 MDG Bio-Environmental Engineering Flight
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CDDAR—Crashed, Damaged or Disabled Aircraft Repair
CE—Civil Engineering
CG—Center of Gravity
CP—Command Post (552 ACW/CP)
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
HAZMAT—Hazardous Materials
 14                                           TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014


IC—Incident Commander
IEMP—Installation Emergency Management Plan
MAJCOM—Major Command
MARE—Major Accident Response Exercise
MDS—Mission Design Series
MIS—Maintenance Information System
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
OC-ALC -Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex
PDM—Programmed Depot Maintenance
PDMSS—Programmed Depot Maintenance Scheduling System
PPE—Personnel Protective Equipment
QA—Quality Assurance
SA—Support Agreements
SCR—Special Certification Roster
TA—Transient Alert
TO—Technical Order
USAF—United States Air Force
TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014                                                              15


                                        Attachment 2
             76 AMXG/MXDVAC AIRCRAFT CRASH RECOVERY TEAMS

Table A2.1. Positions and Extensions
CRASH RECOVERY TEAM CHIEF: 736-7811

TEAM # 1                                        TEAM # 2

Team - 736-7811                                 Team - 736-7811

Crane Operators (3) - 736-5283                  Crane Operators (3) - 736-5283

Ground Crew (2) - 736-5283                      Tractor Trailer - 736-5283

Tow - 736-2550                                  Ground Crew (2) - 736-5283

Tow Team - 736-2550                             Tow - 736-2550

                                                Tow Team - 736-2550

The following personnel may be contacted in the event none of the primary personnel are
available or other assistance is needed.

Tail Walker - 736-5283

Tractor Trailer - 736-5283
 16                                             TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014


                                 Attachment 3
                  CRASH TRAILER EQUIPMENT INVENTORY

A3.1. The CDDAR equipme nt inventory will be maintained by the CDDAR Team Chief
electronically.
TINKERAFBI21-43 5 MARCH 2014                                                                 17


                                        Attachment 4
        MAINTENANCE CRANE OPERATOR REPRESENTATIVE CHECKLIST

Table A4.1. Maintenance Crane Operator Representative Checklist
           MAINTENANCE CRANE OPERATOR REPRESENTATIVE CHECKLIST
 1.     Equipment Readiness:
   a.   Ensure all vehicles and equipment is fueled.
   b.   Conduct vehicle/equipment, operator maintenance inspection for serviceability.
   c.   Ensure all associated slings (nylon & cable), shackles are within nondestructive
        inspection and inspection dates.
   d.   Ensure all slings and shackles are loaded and secured properly for overland
        movement.
   e.   Ensure 12 Ton Lift Bags are leak tested, loaded and secured on 40 Ft Float for
        overland movement.
   f.   Ensure Crash Blowers are loaded and secured on 40 Ft Float for overland
        movement.
 2.     Technical Data:
   a.   Respective Weapons system will have and furnish all TO references.
   b.   Crash Recovery Team will supply appropriate TOs pertaining to equipment required
        by team.
   c.   On-Base Accident--Immediate Actions:
 3.     On-Base Accident--Immediate Actions:
   a.   Assemble at a pre-designated location. Report to the accident scene when requested
        by the Incident Commander.
   b.   Provide Incident Commander with equipment listing and capabilities.
   c.   Take part in Recovery planning meeting.
   d.   Notify equipment operators of recovery plan.
   e.   Shift equipment operators’ work schedules to accommodate recovery plan time
        limit.
