Administrative Changes to TINKERAFBI32-7006, Secondary Containment Requirements

OPR: 72 ABW/CEIEC

Reference in 2.1 to “Natural Infrastructure Branch. Asset Management Division” should be
changed to “Environmental Compliance Section, Environmental Management Branch”

References throughout to “CEAN” should be changed to “CEIEC”

References throughout to “72 ABW/CEC” should be changed to “72 ABW/CE”

Reference in 2.3 to “Pollution Prevention Branch” should be changed to “Environmental Assets
Section, Environmental Management Branch”

References throughout to “CEPV” should be changed to “CEIEA”

31 March 2014
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                        32-7006

                                                                                 3 MARCH 2010

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                               SECONDARY CONTAINMENT
                                                                       REQUIREMENTS

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 72 ABW/CEAN                                                       Certified by: 72 ABW/CE
Supersedes: TINKERAFBI32-7006,                                           (Ms. Cathy Scheirman)
            1 November 2000                                                              Pages: 5


This instruction establishes guidelines for secondary containment requirements for oil, hazardous
material, and hazardous waste stored on Tinker AFB. It is applicable to all major staff offices
and associate organizations. The purpose of this instruction is to ensure oil, hazardous
substance, and hazardous waste containment systems are utilized to minimize the chances of
such materials entering navigable waters or soil media. Release of oils and hazardous substances
is regulated by both Section 311 of the Clean Water Act and the Comprehensive Environmental
Response Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). Related publications are Tinker Plan 19-
2, Tinker Instruction 32-7004, Air Force Instruction 48-119, and AFOSH Standard 91-43. This
applies to the Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted
otherwise. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s form the field through publications/forms managers. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gess-af61a/afrims/afrims/

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Publication is updated to reflect changes and must be completely reviewed. The change
modifies procedures for containment issues and provides an update to the text.
1. Explanation of Terms:
2                                                      TINKERAFBI32-7006 3 MARCH 2010


    1.1. Accumulation Site. A specific area where hazardous waste can be stored for 90 days or
    less in containers, gondolas, or tanks.
    1.2. Combustible Material. Materials that have a flash point between 100°F and 200°F.
    1.3. Container. A portable device where a material is stored, transported, treated, disposed
    of, or otherwise handled.
    1.4. Discharge. The accidental or intentional spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting,
    or dumping of hazardous waste into or on any land or water.
    1.5. Flammable Material. Materials that have a flash point below 100°F.
    1.6. Gondola. A large container mounted on wheels or skids designed to ease the loading of
    devices onto a truck.
    1.7. Hazardous Substance. Broadly speaking, an element or compound other than oil, when
    released into the environment presents an imminent or substantial threat to the public health
    or welfare, or any substance that could cause a hazard to personnel exposed to it
    (synonymous to hazardous material).
    1.8. Hazardous Waste. A waste as defined in 40 CFR 261.3.1.
    1.9. Oil. Oil of any kind or in any form, including but not limited to petroleum, fuel oil,
    sludge, oil refuse, and oil mixed with wastes other than dredged soil. This includes JP-8,
    gasoline, diesel, Naphtha, etc., as well as other less distilled oils.
    1.10. Portable Bunker. A large container usually mounted on an undercarriage with wheels
    that is designed to be moved within a limited industrial area by being towed behind a
    separate powered vehicle.
    1.11. Responsible Organization.     Any organization which uses or stores oil, hazardous
    material and/or hazardous waste.
    1.12. Secondary Containment. A physical containment used to capture a spill and prevent or
    limit its release to the environment. Examples include dikes, curbs, drip pans, and collection
    systems.
Note: Not to include sandbags. Physical structures which collect rainwater will be outfitted
with drains capable of being opened and closed to prevent accumulation of water inside the
containment area.
    1.13. Tank. A stationary device with an open or closed top used to hold or accumulate
    liquid materials or wastes constructed primarily of non-earthen materials (wood, concrete,
    steel, plastic, and fiberglass) which provide structural support.
    1.14. Tanker Truck. A vehicle built to the usual standards for use on United States highways
    that is specifically designed to transport liquids in bulk.
2. Responsibilities:
    2.1. Natural Infrastructure Branch, Asset Management Division (72 ABW/CEAN) will:
       2.1.1. Develop procedures for any future areas needing secondary containment.
       2.1.2. Perform compliance inspection to assist in identifying areas requiring secondary
       containment.
TINKERAFBI32-7006 3 MARCH 2010                                                               3


      2.1.3. Determine when secondary containment is required when requested by a
      responsible organization.
      2.1.4. Assess laboratory analysis of water collected in dike areas when contamination is
      suspected to determine proper discharge/disposal method.
      2.1.5. Coordinate projects with responsible organization prior to awarding contract.
   2.2. 72 Civil Engineering Directorate (72 ABW/CEC) will:
      2.2.1. Direct resources to correct secondary containment of oil, hazardous material, and
      hazardous waste storage locations, when real property or real property installed
      equipment is involved.
   2.3. Pollution Prevention Branch (72 ABW/CEPV) will:
      2.3.1. Perform laboratory analysis on samples to determine levels of contamination.
   2.4. Responsible Organizations will:
      2.4.1. Request assistance from the 72 ABW/CEAN when the determination of secondary
      containment is required.
      2.4.2. Direct resources necessary to provide secondary containment on oil, hazardous
      material, and hazardous waste storage locations.
      2.4.3. Sample any rainfall where contamination is suspected or apparent and take to the
      72 ABW/CEPV laboratory for analysis.
      2.4.4. Inform the 72 ABW/CEAN when there is a deficiency in secondary containment
      and notify when secondary containment requirements are met.
3. Requirements:
   3.1. Hazardous material storage sites requiring secondary containment will include areas
   used to store hazardous materials in drums or tanks located near open storm drains or open
   Industrial Waste Treatment drains, dispensing areas, and outside areas used to store
   hazardous materials or hazardous wastes in excess of 5 days or in the vicinity of a storm
   drain.
      3.1.1. Indoor hazardous materials storage rooms that require secondary containment
      must have a minimum 4” dike or drain off tank. Rooms will be liquid-tight where walls
      join the floor. All bulk materials storage rooms must have at a minimum a dike capable
      of containing 100 percent of the contents of the largest container or 10 percent of total
      contents of all containers, whichever is greater.
      3.1.2. Outdoor hazardous materials storage sites that require secondary containment must
      have a minimum 6” dike or drain off tank. Containment for all other hazardous materials
      and hazardous wastes must have as a minimum the capability to hold 100 percent of the
      volume of the largest container or 10 percent of the total volume of all containers,
      whichever is greater plus sufficient freeboard to allow for precipitation.
      3.1.3. All hazardous material dispensing areas must be equipped with compatible drip
      pans or absorbent pans capable of containing any spilled, dripped liquids. If metal pans
4                                                      TINKERAFBI32-7006 3 MARCH 2010


       are used they must be grounded when collecting drips from flammable materials. These
       drip pans must be monitored to ensure 100 percent of dripped contents are contained.
       3.1.4. Secondary containment systems for tanks must meet the following requirements as
       a minimum:
           3.1.4.1. Constructed of or lined with materials which are compatible with the wastes
           to be placed in the tank system.
           3.1.4.2. Sufficient strength and thickness to prevent failure due to pressure gradient,
           physical contact with the waste to which they are exposed, climatic conditions, the
           stress of installation, and the stress of daily operation.
           3.1.4.3. Placed on a foundation or base capable of providing support to the secondary
           containment system and resistance to pressure gradients above and below the system
           and capable of preventing failure due to settlement, compression, or uplift.
           3.1.4.4. A leak detection system for hazardous waste storage tanks and underground
           storage tanks that is designed and operated to detect the failure of either the primary
           and secondary containment structure or system, or any release of hazardous waste or
           accumulated liquid in the secondary containment system within 24 hours.
           3.1.4.5. Sloped or otherwise designed or operated to drain and remove liquids
           resulting from leaks, spills, or precipitation. Such liquids must be removed within 24
           hours.
           3.1.4.6. Sufficient capacity to contain 100 percent of the capacity of the largest tank
           within its boundary plus sufficient freeboard to allow for precipitation.
           3.1.4.7. A liner (external to the tank), a vault, a double-walled tank, or an equivalent
           device as approved by the 72 ABW/CEAN.
    3.2. Hazardous waste storage sites requiring secondary containment include indoor liquid
    initial accumulation sites located near open storm drains or open Industrial Waste Treatment
    drains, outdoor initial accumulation sites, and the base permitted treatment storage and/or
    disposal facility (TSDF).
       3.2.1. Accumulation sites that require secondary containment shall provide containment
       capacity to hold 100 percent of volume of the largest container or 10 percent of the total
       volume of all containers within its boundary, whichever is greater.
       3.2.2. Secondary containment must provide the following for the base permitted
       hazardous waste TSDF:
           3.2.2.1. A base underlying the containers that is free of cracks or gaps and
           sufficiently impervious to contain leaks, spills, and accumulated rainfall until the
           collected material is detected and removed.
           3.2.2.2. A collection system with sufficient capacity to hold 10 percent of the
           contents of all containers, or the contents of the largest container, whichever is
           greater.
TINKERAFBI32-7006 3 MARCH 2010                                                                   5


   3.3. Oil product storage sites requiring secondary containment will include all bulk storage
   tanks, all portable bunkers over 600 gallons, all bulk dispensing tanks, and all drummed new
   and used petroleum, oil, and lubrication (POL) products.
      3.3.1. All bulk dispensing tanks must have a minimum 6” dike around the entire tank.
      3.3.2. All new and waste drummed POL products stored outside (in excess of 5 days) or
      in the vicinity of a storm drain must have a minimum 6” dike or enviropac.
      3.3.3. All portable bunkers and tanker trucks containing POL products or material and
      stored in excess of 5 days must be visually inspected weekly for leaks and deterioration.
   3.4. Any area, as determined by the 72 ABW/CEAN, which shows evidence of poor
   housekeeping, prior spills (paint spills, oil stains, dead vegetation, overfilled drums), or
   where there may be a threat of storm water discharge will be required to have secondary
   containment.
   3.5. Newly installed process tanks within the vicinity of a storm, industrial, or sanitary sewer
   drain or trench shall include secondary containment equipment or procedures to prevent a
   spill or leak of hazardous material into the sewer system. Equipment or procedures shall
   ensure that a leak or spill does not result in any of the material entering one of these
   collection systems.
   3.6. Dikes will be designed with a drain capable of discharging collected rainfall. The drain
   valves must be closed at all times to prevent accidental discharges. Collected rainfall will not
   be discharged if anything other than rain water is suspected or apparent. If determination
   cannot be made contact the 72 ABW/CEAN. If suspected or apparent a sample will be
   submitted to the 72 ABW/CEPV laboratory for analysis.                 Discharge or disposal
   determination will be made by the 72 ABW/CEAN based on the results of the analysis.
   3.7. Dikes and containment areas shall be impervious to liquids.
4. Funding, Programming, and Method for Correcting Secondary Containment
Deficiencies
   4.1. The responsible organization will ensure that appropriate funding sources and method of
   accomplishing projects to correct deficiencies are implemented.             The responsible
   organization will also identify, track, and provide the 72 ABW/CEAN with information on
   the status of secondary containment actions.
5. Adopted Forms
   5.1. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                             ALLEN J. JAMERSON, Col, USAF
                                             Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
