BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                         47-101

                                                                               11 JANUARY 2010

                                                                                            Dental

                                                                     BASE DENTAL SERVICES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website for
               downloading or ordering at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 72 MDG/SGD                                                         Certified by: 72 MDG/CC
Supersedes: TINKERAFBI47-101,                                                  (Col Robert Marks)
            30 August 2007                                                                Pages: 4


This instruction establishes the responsibilities, policies and procedures for providing dental care
at Tinker AFB. The provisions of this instruction apply to all organizations and individuals
assigned to Tinker AFB and other authorized personnel requesting dental care at this installation.
This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard units or members.
This instruction implements AFPD 47-1. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through
publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with the Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gess-af61a/afrims/afrims/. This publication requires collection of data
subject to the Privacy Act of 1974. A privacy act statement must be furnished prior to collecting
this data when applicable. The maintenance, collection, use or dissemination of any information
herein for a system of records is subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 as authorized by Title 10
U.S.C. 133 and 8012.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes include minor wording revisions, format changes, signature block, OPR and certified by
references.
1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. The Dental Squadron Commander will:
2                                                   TINKERAFBI47-101 11 JANUARY 2010


       1.1.1. Manage base dental services and provide facilities and treatment programs to
       maintain the oral health of personnel authorized treatment at Tinker AFB.
       1.1.2. Appoint a noncommissioned officer to manage enlisted and other ancillary
       personnel.
       1.1.3. Be responsible to the Medical Group Commander (MDG/CC) and Air Force
       Medical Operations Agency (AFMOA/SGD) for proper conduct and operation of base
       dental activities.
    1.2. Organizational commanders will:
       1.2.1. Ensure assigned personnel meet scheduled appointments to ensure each member’s
       readiness status.
       1.2.2. Minimize broken/missed appointments, as mission requirements allow.
2. Priorities for Dental Care:
    2.1. Emergencies. All eligible beneficiaries with dental emergencies (defined as: care
    rendered for humane reasons to relieve severe debilitating pain, acute septic conditions,
    painful injuries to the oral structures, blockage of the airway or uncontrolled bleeding).
    2.2. All active duty personnel in Dental Class 3 and 4.
       2.2.1. Class 3 is defined for patients who have oral conditions that the dentist expects
       may result in a dental emergency within 12 months, if not treated.
       2.2.2. Class 4 is defined for patients who require dental examinations or whose dental
       classification is unknown.
    2.3. Active duty personnel on flying status, special operations duty (missileers, controllers,
    space operations personnel), mobility and personnel selected for remote or isolated duty.
    2.4. All other active duty personnel.
    2.5. All others according to AFI 41-115, Authorized Healthcare and Healthcare Benefits in
    the Military Health Services System (MHSS).
3. Types of Dental Care:
    3.1. Routine Dental Care:
       3.1.1. Active duty personnel must receive a periodic dental examination to assess each
       member’s readiness status. Appointments for periodic dental examinations will be
       scheduled by the dental clinic and coordinated with the Unit Health Monitor, who will
       then inform each member of their pending appointment. Unit Health Monitors will be
       notified of broken appointments. Identified treatment needs will be scheduled after the
       periodic dental examination.
       3.1.2. Other than active duty personnel are eligible for routine care on a space-available
       basis for services not covered by TRICARE Dental Program (TDP). Space availability is
       determined by the Dental Squadron Commander, and is normally very limited. For this
       reason, sponsors are highly encouraged to enroll their families in the TDP. Retired
       personnel are highly encouraged to enroll in the Delta Dental Plan (DDP) and should not
       consider this Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) as their primary source for dental care.
TINKERAFBI47-101 11 JANUARY 2010                                                                 3


   3.2. Emergency Dental Care - During Duty Hours:
      3.2.1. Active duty personnel with dental concerns may call the dental clinic for a same
      day evaluation appointment on any scheduled duty day.
      3.2.2. Other than active duty personnel are eligible for initial stabilization of emergencies
      and relief of pain. However, family members enrolled in TDP should utilize their civilian
      dentist as emergency care is covered by the TDP.
   3.3. Emergency Dental Care-After Hours. Active duty members who have dental
   emergencies after normal duty hours should call the 72 MDG appointment line at 734-2778
   to be referred to the dental officer on call. Non-active duty beneficiaries should first try to
   contact their civilian dentist for emergencies. If unable to do so, contact the 72 MDG
   appointment line at 734-2778.
4. Appointment Procedures and Policies:
   4.1. Scheduling Appointments. All routine dental care will be scheduled in advance of the
   appointment time. This can be done in person or via telephone by calling 736-2000. All
   scheduled appointments are considered mandatory formations. Appointments may be
   rescheduled by telephone or in person.
   4.2. Missed Appointments. Missed appointments are a failure to go. Patients who
   habitually break scheduled appointments, waste valuable patient treatment time and
   compromise their dental health. Therefore, those individuals will be identified to their
   commander for corrective actions.
      4.2.1. Patients are to be present at their appointed time. If late for their appointment,
      they may be considered a no-show and that appointment may be given to another patient
      to maximize available patient treatment time.
   4.3. Appointment Cancellation. If appointment cancellation is necessary, it may be done
   by telephone by calling 736-2000. A 24-hour notice is requested to minimize lost patient
   treatment time.
5. Treatment of Minors:
   5.1. Age of Child. Children presented for care should be 4 years of age or older.
   5.2. Parent or Legal Guardian. A parent or legal guardian must be in the clinic whenever
   children under 18 years of age are receiving dental care. The only exception is when a parent
   or legal guardian opts to sign a “Parental Authorization for Dental Care” for children age 13-
   17. After examination and discussion of the proposed treatment plan with the examining
   dentist, the child will be authorized to receive routine, non-surgical dental care without the
   presence of their parent or guardian.
6. TRICARE Dental Plan (TDP):
   6.1. Enrollment. Active duty members are strongly encouraged to enroll their family
   members in this plan due to limited space-available care in military dental facilities.
   Therefore, since emergency dental care and second opinions are covered, the TDP provider
   should be utilized for these services. Specific services not covered by TDP may be available
   in military dental facilities, but only on a space available basis.
4                                                    TINKERAFBI47-101 11 JANUARY 2010


    6.2. Procedures. Enrollment and disenrollment procedures for the TDP are handled by
    calling United Concordia toll free at 1-800-866-8499. Questions regarding procedures
    covered by TDP may be directed to the Health Benefits Advisor.
    6.3. Family Member Dental Clearance Examination. Family members accompanying
    active duty members to overseas locations are required to complete a dental clearance
    examination. Family members enrolled in TDP should have dental examinations
    accomplished by their civilian dentist. If family members are not enrolled in TDP, they can
    accomplish the dental clearance examination at a military treatment facility. However, if
    care is required to approve the overseas clearance, it is the active duty member’s
    responsibility to ensure that care is completed for their family members. In this situation, it
    is extremely beneficial for the family members to be previously enrolled in the TDP to not
    delay the assignment process while trying to enroll and complete required dental care.
7. Worldwide Qualification:
    7.1. Air Force Dental Readiness Assurance Program. The Air Force Dental Readiness
    Assurance Program (AFDRAP) seeks to keep all Air Force military personnel in optimal oral
    health in order to maintain qualification for worldwide duty. Dental Class 1 or 2 individuals
    are worldwide deployable. Dental Class 1 means patients are not expected to require
    treatment or reevaluation within 12 months. Dental Class 2 patients have oral conditions that
    are not expected to require emergency treatment within 12 months if not treated.
    7.2. Worldwide Qualified. Unit commanders should cooperate with Dental Services to
    ensure personnel are worldwide qualified before deployment or before they are sent remote
    for temporary duty. The Dental Service will manage programs to ensure personnel are not
    deployed if they are not qualified. Management of personnel not worldwide qualified may
    require action up to, and including, physical profiling action.




                                             ALLEN J. JAMERSON, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
