BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                         32-6005

                                                                             5 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                 Civil Engineering

                                                 UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING STANDARDS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 72 ABW/CEAC                                                     Certified by: 72 ABW/CEAC
                                                                             (Cathy R. Scheirman)
Supersedes:    TINKERAFBI 32-6005,                                                        Pages: 8
               19 January 2010


This instruction establishes procedures and responsibilities for assignment, termination,
occupancy, visitation and cleanliness of Unaccompanied Housing (UH) at Tinker AFB. It
defines duties and responsibilities of all occupants residing in UH. It applies to all airmen, units
and branches of service living on, stationed at or attached to Tinker AFB, living in UH does not
include Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted otherwise.
Refer recommended changes and questions above this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through publications/forms manager. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.af.mil/gess-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Adopted from AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication. Failure to observe prohibitions and mandatory provisions of this
instruction in paragraphs 8 and 13 by military personnel is a violation of Article 92, Uniform
Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Violations of any portion of this instruction may result in
administrative disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil
sanctions for violations of related laws.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This publication
requires collection and/or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The
 2                                                 TINKERAFBI 32-6005 5 DECEMBER 2012


authority to collect and/or maintain the records prescribed in this publication are 10 U.S.C. 8012
and 10 U.S.C. 9840. Authority for maintenance of the system of records is 10 U.S.C. 9775;
system identification number is F030 AF LE D.
1. General Information
     1.1. Housing Asset Management is responsible for ensuring the provisions of this instruction
     are fulfilled.
     1.2. Unaccompanied housing (UH) residents are responsible for complying with applicable
     portions of this instruction. The Unaccompanied Housing Office (UHO) will ensure all UH
     occupants are made personally aware of the content of this instruction upon their assignment
     to UH.
     1.3. Unit commanders and first sergeants will ensure compliance with this instruction.
     1.4. UH residents will limit smoking to designated smoking areas.
2. References
     2.1. See Attachment 1 for a complete list of all references.
3. Definitions
     3.1. Definitions are now listed as terms.
     3.2. Terms are now listed in Attachment 1.
4. Procedure
     4.1. Assignment/Termination of Quarters
        4.1.1. Assignment. The UH manager and occupant will perform an initial inspection to
        identify and document discrepancies in the room and furnishings. This inspection is
        normally performed at the time of assignment.
            4.1.1.1. Eligibility for assignment of dormitory space is explained in the AFI 32-
            6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, Chapter 4, and includes providing
            dorm rooms to all single unaccompanied enlisted personnel in the grades E-1 through
            E-4 with less than 3 years of service (YOS) including geographically separated mil to
            mil, E-1 through E-4 < 3 YOS. The UHO is responsible for individual room
            assignments.
            4.1.1.2. The occupant uses an AF Form 228 to accomplish an acceptance inspection
            upon assignment. The condition of quarters and furnishings are annotated. Both the
            occupant and UH manager will sign and date the form. The original copy is
            maintained by the UH manager and used again for the final inspection. The occupant
            has three (3) calendar days after acceptance of the room to annotate the room’s
            condition, any damage to the room’s furnishings, fixtures, carpet, etc., and report the
            information to the UHO. Residents are not held liable for damages previously
            recorded on the AF Form 228 upon termination of assigned quarters.
        4.1.2. Termination. Occupants will give a written 30-day notice of termination
        (exception of short notice PCS).
TINKERAFBI 32-6005 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                             3


          4.1.2.1. Residents with short notice PCS/Separation will notify the UHO at least 48
          hours prior to their departure date and submit a copy of the separation order to the
          UHO.
          4.1.2.2. Final inspection is scheduled by the UHO upon notification of intent to
          terminate quarters. The member’s first sergeant is notified immediately by UH
          Management of any discrepancies that would delay a clearance of quarters. Loss or
          damage not due to fair wear and tear, which is not corrected or correctable by the
          occupant, is treated as follows:
              4.1.2.2.1. DD Form 1131: When liability is admitted, DD Form 1131, Cash
              Collection Voucher, DD Form 139, Pay Adjustment Authorization, or a DD Form
              362, Statement of Charges for Government Property Lost, Damaged or
              Destroyed, is prepared.
              4.1.2.2.2. DD Form 139: When liability is not admitted, a Report of Survey,
              using DD Form 200, is initiated to determine responsibility and monetary
              liability.
              4.1.2.2.3. The UHO will not grant clearance until all actions outlined are
              accomplished.
              4.1.2.2.4. Occupants who marry while residing in UH will be required to
              terminate their dormitory room within 15 days of the date of marriage (DOM).
              AFI 32-6005 allows UH residents to move out of UH up to 60 days in advance of
              projected marriage. This benefit should be maximized. Occupants will submit
              either a memorandum for record or email with their intent to marry with
              coordination from their first sergeant. A projected date of marriage is required
              and a copy of the marriage certificate will be provided for review by the UH
              manager within 30 days after the intended marriage date.
              4.1.2.2.5. Members eligible to terminate UH while deployed will designate a
              trustworthy individual (friend or supervisor) to comply with paragraph 5.4. The
              deploying member should also report to the base legal office and set-up a special
              Power of Attorney (POA) to ensure the individual he/she has entrusted will have
              the authority to clear the dormitory room of all personal belongings, complete the
              termination inspection, and start the BAH entitlement. The member will bring a
              copy of the POA to the UHO to be filed in their individual record for this purpose.
5. Accountability. UH Manager will record all dormitory issued furnishings to the occupants
on an AF Form 228.
   5.1. Residents will contact the UHO for furnishing and appliance repairs. The UHO will
   coordinate with the Furnishings Management Office (FMO).
   5.2. Dormitory occupants are authorized use of privately-owned furniture in the dormitories,
   unless it interferes with resident safety or requires the removal of government furnishings.
   Government furnishings will not be removed from the dormitory room.
   5.3. Residents must report loss, damage, and destruction of government owned equipment
   and furnishings to the UHO immediately.
 4                                                 TINKERAFBI 32-6005 5 DECEMBER 2012


     5.4. Residents will notify the UHO when taking periods of leave, TDY, or deployment in
     excess of 3 days. Occupants must do so in writing, indicating the dates of the absence and
     who will be charged with ensuring security and prudent care of the dormitory room. Do not
     turn off the HVAC system during absences to control mildew. The occupant could be held
     liable for damages if the UHO is not notified of their absence.
6. Room Arrangement. Rooms may be arranged to suit the needs of the occupant. Room
arrangements identified as safety hazards by the safety office, fire department, first sergeant, or
UHO will be changed to meet safety requirements.
     6.1. Government provided furnishings or appliances will not be removed from rooms.
7. Building Maintenance. Proper upkeep of facilities is the responsibility of all personnel
residing in the dormitories. Discrepancies are reported to the UH manager who will coordinate
with the First Sergeant.
     7.1. Emergency Repairs such as leaks, floods. Occupants having after-hours emergency
     repairs will report them to the Civil Engineering Work Order desk at 734-3117. Occupants
     will notify the UHO the next duty day of requested repairs.
     7.2. Routine Maintenance. Routine maintenance and repair work, and self-help projects are
     approved, coordinated, and inspected by the UHO at 734-4421. UHO will perform
     maintenance inspections of work requests with or without occupant presence to ensure proper
     completion of work orders.
8. General Restrictions. Members who violate the prohibitions and mandatory provisions in
this paragraph and its subparagraphs are subject to prosecution under Article 92, UCMJ.
     8.1. Sponsors are responsible for their guest(s) behavior at all times. Guests must be 18
     years of age or older to be escorted into the dormitories, unless the guest is a member of the
     occupant’s immediate family.
        8.1.1. All guests are to be escorted by a sponsor at all times and be properly attired.
        8.1.2. Guests are restricted to the sponsor’s quarters, or the dayroom of the sponsor’s
        dormitory. Guests will not inconvenience any occupants sharing the bathroom and/or
        kitchen of the sponsor’s room.
        8.1.3. Guests will not stay overnight, between the hours of 2400and 0600, in any part of
        a dormitory under any circumstances.
     8.2. Residents under the age of 21 will not possess or consume any type of beverage
     containing alcohol IAW local and state laws, Providing alcoholic beverages to anyone
     under the age of 21 is prohibited and punishable under the UCMJ and local state laws.
     8.3. Alcohol will not be stored in common areas or shared dormitory kitchens and bathrooms
     when those areas are shared with a member under the legal drinking age of 21. It is the
     responsibility of the member to maintain control of alcohol in their possession.
     8.4. Possession and use of any illegal drugs/substances is prohibited.
     8.5. Possession of pets of any description is prohibited, with the exception of an aquarium
     with a maximum 5-gallon capacity, containing fish.
TINKERAFBI 32-6005 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                              5


  8.6. UH residents are prohibited from possessing, storing, or otherwise bringing
  unauthorized weapons into the dormitories. The following is a list of dangerous weapons or
  actions, which are prohibited. This list is not all-inclusive:
     8.6.1. Any weapons that propel missiles, bullets, BBs, pellets, paintballs, arrows, or any
     other projectiles that can be launched to cause injury to another resident such as
     slingshots, throwing stars, switch blades, razor blades, and knives designed for any
     purpose other than cooking aides. An exception to this would be an issued Air Force
     MC-1 survival knife or Leatherman style utility knives. (All individuals must register
     their privately owned weapons via AF Form 1314 and contact the 72 SFS Armory at 734-
     7402 for storage of their weapons.
     8.6.2. Any explosive device to include fireworks and ammunition.
     8.6.3. Any combustible or flammable liquid or material. Rooms with kitchens may store
     lighter fluid and charcoal to be used in designated barbeque areas. (No barbequing
     within 20 feet of any building.)
     8.6.4. Blackjack, metal knuckles or other items used as weapons.
  8.7. UH residents are prohibited from possessing electrical or fuel burning appliances (hot
  plates, microwaves, stoves, lanterns, etc.) that are not government installed or specifically
  approved by the UH Manager . Residents with rooms containing kitchens may utilize normal
  kitchen appliances, such as, toasters, blenders, etc.
     8.7.1. The burning of incense, candles or any open flames in the dormitories is
     prohibited.
     8.7.2. Light bulbs or light fixtures will not be painted or obstructed.
     8.7.3. Removal or dismantling of smoke detectors or other safety equipment is
     prohibited. For problems, contact the UHO or CE Customer Service after normal duty
     hours at 734-3117. False alarms will be investigated, and responsible individuals may be
     prosecuted under the UCMJ, and charged for repairs.
  8.8. Excessive noise that infringes upon the privacy of others will not be tolerated. The
  dormitories are considered a 24-hour quiet area. Social gatherings will utilize other facilities
  designed for this use.
  8.9. Vehicle maintenance performed in parking lots is limited to minor tune-ups (to include
  removal and replacement of minor mechanical parts i.e., spark plugs and wires, distributor
  caps, batteries, lights and bulbs) and emergency maintenance only. Changing of any type of
  automotive fluids is prohibited anywhere in the dormitory campus area. The Services Auto
  Skills Center is available for routine maintenance. Vehicle parts or tires will not be stored in
  dormitory areas.
  8.10. Recreational vehicles are allowed for 12 hours to load and unload. Long term storage
  is available through Outdoor Recreation for all recreational vehicles to include campers,
  boats and off road vehicles.
  8.11. Residents are prohibited from parking or driving privately owned vehicles in dormitory
  campus areas unless specifically marked and designated for such use.
  8.11.1. Outside ledges and roofs are off limits.
 6                                                    TINKERAFBI 32-6005 5 DECEMBER 2012


     8.12. Vents for air conditioning and heating units will not be covered or blocked. Occupant
     is responsible for replacing filter, provided upon request, by the UH Manager. Filters will be
     changed at least every 60 days.
8.13. Poster and picture displays of sexually, racially or otherwise offensive material which are
prejudicial to good order and discipline, or service discrediting, are not allowed.
     8.14. Obscenity or lewdness which affects the peace and quiet of others, is prejudicial to
     good order and discipline, or service discrediting, will not be tolerated and may also be
     punishable under Art 134 of the UCMJ, Disorderly Conduct.
     8.15. An occupant may not receive any cable television, Internet or any telephone service in
     a dorm room without written approval from the local service provider. Failure to obey this
     regulation is punishable under Article 134, UCMJ/Obtaining Services under False Pretenses.
     8.16. Extension cords must be of continuous length without splices and must be UL
     approved. Since extension cords can be a tripping hazard, position the cords in a safe and
     secure manner. Do not plug one power strip into another to gain more outlets.
9. Energy Conservation. Resource conservation will be practiced in, but not limited to, the
following areas:
     9.1. Keep all windows and outside doors closed when heating and air conditioning systems
     are working. Heating and air conditioning will be turned off when doors and windows are
     open.
     9.2. All water faucets will be completely turned off when not in use.
     9.3. All lights, stereos, radios, televisions and similar equipment will be turned off when not
     in use.
     9.4. Doors to common areas, i.e., dayrooms, laundry rooms, and interior hallways will not be
     propped open.
     9.5. Space heaters of any type are prohibited.
     9.6. Window mounted A/C units are prohibited.
10. Lost Keys. Occupants will immediately report lost keys to the UHO. Occupants will
complete a cash collection voucher and pay Accounting and Finance a replacement fee.
Occupants who have a broken room key will return it to the UH Manager for a replacement.
11. Security. Residents will secure and lock all doors and windows to their personal living area
while unoccupied, to prevent theft/destruction.
12. UH Room Door Tags. An approved door tag will be displayed at all time on occupants’
doors.
13. UH Inspection Plan. It is AF policy to maintain dormitories in a manner conducive to good
health, cleanliness, and general welfare of all occupants. Rooms must be clean and orderly at all
times. The Unit Commander or First Sergeant determines room inspection frequency. Safety
and health inspections may be as frequent as deemed necessary. Violations of health and safety
regulations will be corrected immediately. Appropriate administrative action or UCMJ action
under Art 92, Failure to Obey, may be taken.
TINKERAFBI 32-6005 5 DECEMBER 2012                                                                  7


14. UH Handbook. All residents are required to read and understand the UH Resident
Handbook, located in the common area (bathroom/kitchen) of each dormitory module.
15. Basic Allowance For Housing List. BAH lists are maintained at the UHO. Residents are
welcome to view the list at any time. The list is updated monthly on the 15th of every month.
The list is prioritized first by building, then rank in order to increase unit integrity and eliminate
the potential of undue hardship on Airmen due to frequent moves.
16. Bay Orderly Program. The Bay Orderly program is set on a 7-day rotation as determined
by the UHO, the shift runs from 0730 to 1600 hrs. Squadron commanders or first sergeants will
schedule and assign bay orderlies for duty as required. Members assigned to Bay Orderly must
be physically able to perform all duties assigned. The UH Management Section provides overall
program management and supervises residents performing these functions. Members are
required to report for duty at The Unaccompanied Housing Office, in ABUs during weekdays.
Weekend duties must be completed by noon on both Saturday and Sunday. (Note: The PT
uniform may be authorized by UHO personnel).
17. Snow and Ice Removal. Each dormitory resident is responsible for dormitory campus snow
and ice removal. The Unaccompanied Housing Office will assign residents to teams and notify,
both, the residents and First Sergeants of rotation schedules. Assigned residents will report to
their first floor dayroom, NLT 0730 the day after the storm, wearing proper attire for snow and
ice removal. Airmen will be required to sign-in. Resident attendance is mandatory. Residents
who fail to report to their removal team will be reported to their Commander and First Sergeant.
Residents designated as mission essential personnel must present a Commander or First Sergeant
endorsed memorandum to be filed with their individual record.
18. Additional Inspections. All UH dormitories are subject to periodic health and welfare
inspections by base agencies, such as Safety, Fire Department, and Environmental Health
Services Branch. Inspections may be scheduled or unannounced.
19. Bicycle Registration. All bicycles on the UH campus must be registered with the
Unaccompanied Housing Office. Residents will be given a tag to attach to the bicycle after
registration to certify their bicycle has been registered. All bicycles must be maintained in a
serviceable condition to maintain a neat and orderly campus appearance. Bicycles that have not
been registered will be removed from the campus and all unclaimed bicycles will be donated.
20. Emergency Procedures. In the event of a natural disaster, residents may be asked to shelter
in place. Residents are encouraged to build and maintain a disaster preparedness kit to utilize
during emergencies. The kit should contain items such as battery operated weather radio,
flashlight, batteries, headphones, waterproof matches, candles, a whistle, first aid kit, etc. If
asked to evacuate, residents will bring their disaster prep kits to the evacuation site. Residents
must remain calm, track weather updates, and aid others when possible.




                                               STEVEN J. BLEYMAIER, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
 8                                              TINKERAFBI 32-6005 5 DECEMBER 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-6004, Furnishings Management, 3 Mar 06
AFI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Housing Management, 9 Oct 08
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 1 Aug 1998

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CE—Civil Engineer
FMO—Furnishings Management Office
UCMJ—Uniformed Code of Military Justice
UH—Unaccompanied Housing
UHO—Unaccompanied Housing Office

Terms
Directive Publication— Publication that is necessary to meet the requirements of law, safety,
security, or other areas where common direction and standardization benefit the Air Force. Air
Force personnel must comply with these publications. All publications in this category carry the
following statement: “COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY.”
Publication— An officially produced, published and distributed document issued for
compliance, implementation and/ or information. Includes Policy and Guidance Memorandums
