BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           TINKER AIR FORCE BASE PAMPHLET
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                         21-424

                                                                                 14 JULY 2011

                                                                                  Maintenance

                                                  GUIDE FOR INTEGRATING LOGISTICS
                                                ISSUES AND ENGINEERING TECHNICAL
                                                                 CHANGE REVIEWS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OC-ALC/ENSP                                                     Certified by: OC-ALC/EN
                                                                                (Aaron Larsen)
Supersedes:    OC-ALCPAM 21-424,                                                      Pages: 9
               10 APRIL 2008


The purpose of this pamphlet is to provide guidance on technical changes that may impact
logistics support and/or funding. The guidance is to ensure proposed technical changes are
supportable and funded before issuing a formal change, except in cases of safety considerations.
It is applicable to OC-ALC and 448 SCMW organizations located at Tinker AFB that have
engineering or technical authority to review depot/user/contractor reported problems and
implement improvement recommendations. It does not apply to the Air Force Reserve and Air
National Guard units, except where noted otherwise. All records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility using AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT
847s through the appropriate chain of command to OC-ALC/ENSP.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is revised to update guidance references. Several of the previous reference
documents have been cancelled and replaced by newer publications. Additionally, this document
has been changed from an OC-ALC Pamphlet to a Tinker Pamphlet because this guidance
applies to both OC-ALC and the 848 SCMG.
 2                                                     TINKERAFBPAM21-424 14 JULY 2011


1. General Information: This pamphlet contains guidance and a sample checklist to provide
minimum information to be considered when providing technical changes in response to a
support request or process/product review. Primary technical guidance is provided in other
sources. The sample checklist is provided in attachment 3. It is recommended organizations
incorporate the considerations identified in the attached checklist into their processes to reduce
the possibility of unforeseen impacts to cost, schedule, or supportability. Organizations using
automated systems to process technical changes should review their systems to ensure the
elements of this pamphlet are incorporated in the automated process. Automated and manual
processes should ensure logistics planning and execution personnel are informed of technical
changes that may result in changes to costs, parts supportability, or other factors. Additional
elements may be added to address needs of particular organizations and the order or sequence of
review of the items may be applied as appropriate.
2. Technical Change:
     2.1. Definition: Any form of guidance that directs an action either on a one-time basis, or
     permanently, that differs from published technical order instructions or configuration control
     documents. In accordance with the role of the chief/lead engineer in the Systems
     Engineering Plan, the chief/lead engineer or designee will be the final authority to determine
     that an action constitutes a technical change.
     2.2. A subset of technical change is an engineering disposition. It is the guidance or
     recommendation produced as a result of engineering review of a problem or issue. It
     normally refers to a decision on a technical issue.
     2.3. Technical changes may result directly, or as a follow-up action from the processing or
     evaluation of any of a wide variety of tasks and activities. These activities will not always
     produce a technical change, but are identified at attachment 2 as those most likely to include
     a technical change as part of the final resolution.
3. Guidance:
     3.1. Each organization with authority to make technical changes in support of depot or other
     maintenance activities should ensure that both technical and logistics considerations have
     been satisfied. Changes to technical orders should not be issued without ensuring changes are
     materially supportable, funded, and coordinated with the source of supply/repair; except in
     cases required to correct safety deficiencies. This responsibility should include maintaining
     acceptable product quality in resolution of issues associated with resolution of Product
     Quality Deficiency Reports in accordance with Center’s quality policy, OC-ALC Manual 90-
     107.
        3.1.1. The responsibility of the technical staff is to ensure technical issues are considered
        and properly accounted for in the disposition or recommendation to preserve the
        operational safety, suitability, and effectiveness (OSS&E) of the system. The technical
        staff, which includes engineers, scientists, and equipment specialists, identifies the
        requirement for technical changes to maintain OSS&E of the system, product, or item.
        However, the implementation of a change that requires additional funding for ongoing or
        future support should be coordinated with the logistics community. The logistics
        community includes the organization’s own item managers, production managers,
        logistics/materiel managers, and equipment specialists; as well as those of other
TINKERAFBPAM21-424 14 JULY 2011                                                                3


     organizations that may be affected by the technical change, to include the planning and
     financial resource managers in the maintenance activities or appropriate contract
     managers.
     3.1.2. Logistics considerations of parts shortages, parts supportability, cost, or schedule;
     should be taken into account to arrive at a workable solution to the issue addressed by a
     proposed technical change. The logistics issues below are some of the critical problems
     associated with implementation of technical change. These questions will usually be
     generated when field or depot maintenance organizations request technical support.
     Negotiations may be needed between the technical staff and the corresponding logistics
     community to ensure change is implemented according to a supportable schedule. Such
     negotiations may not be possible with time sensitive or safety critical requirements. An
     example would be work stoppages in depot maintenance. Even if time constraints are
     imposed, organizations should provide for timely follow-up and review of technical
     changes to identify and properly manage any impacts to logistics supportability.
         3.1.2.1. Supply Shortages:          If a proposed technical change will alter
         (increase/decrease) the usage rate of one or more parts, the recommendation should
         be coordinated with the appropriate logistics management function for action as
         required. When prompt responses are required to meet time sensitive criteria,
         logistics planning actions can be accomplished after-the-fact. Logistics planning
         must also allow for renegotiation as needed to ensure continued supportability of the
         item, product, or system. Existing supply shortage problems will be referred to the
         appropriate logistics function for research.
         3.1.2.2. Impacts to Cost, Schedule, or Depot Flow Days: Technical changes will not
         normally be forwarded without agreement on funding and scheduling. The only
         exceptions will be for safety issues or other time sensitive reviews. Organizations
         responsible to provide cost estimates in support of logistics management planning
         will reply promptly to allow most current cost information to be used for planning
         purposes. Timeliness will be determined by each organization’s internal processes.
         3.1.2.3. Parts Supportability:
            3.1.2.3.1. Maximum use of existing stock listed, available material should be
            made. For example, when a maintenance activity reports a technical problem, the
            first approach must always be to recommend a solution using parts or material
            known to be stock listed, if feasible. In any case where a new development may
            be considered to resolve a long-term supportability problem, commercial-off-the-
            shelf solutions will be used to the maximum extent possible. Note: For
            commercial derivative aircraft, refer to AFPD62-6, USAF Airworthiness and
            AFI62-601, USAF Airworthiness.
            3.1.2.3.2. If emergency buys must be made, the management organization should
            ensure appropriate Service (typically AF) and/or DLA systems have been updated
            to reflect altered requirements. This includes updating parts/material usage in
            management systems or stock listing actions for new items.
  3.2. Sample Checklist:
4                                                  TINKERAFBPAM21-424 14 JULY 2011


    3.2.1. The sample checklist at attachment 3 has been prepared to assist organizations in
    their efforts to ensure adequate review of technical changes. Individual organizations
    may have specific requirements that can be accommodated by tailoring the checklist. For
    example, systems maintained to Federal Aviation Administration commercial standards
    will use substantially different processes in obtaining required replacement parts. Any
    checklist developed for a specific process based on this sample will normally remain with
    the records of the management office directing the change. If desired, it may be provided
    to the maintenance organization performing the technical change upon request, or when
    incorporated into a specific process.
    3.2.2. The sample checklist indicates a number of conditions that should be considered
    as possibilities by the organization reviewing the technical change. The elements of this
    checklist should lead the reviewer to consider, in sufficient detail, the potential logistics
    impacts of the technical change; and to contact the appropriate office(s) so that any actual
    or potential impact can be managed and mitigated as appropriate.
    3.2.3. Each likely solution must be weighed against known trade-offs in cost and
    schedule. These trade-offs may involve both near-term and long-term impacts of the
    technical change. As specified in the Systems Engineering Plan, the system chief/lead
    engineer is ultimately responsible to the program manager for the technical aspects of
    system performance. The chief/lead engineer may delegate decision authority which is
    usually accomplished through a Performance Based Agreement with the supplier. The
    person receiving the authority delegation will be knowledgeable about the system, and
    exercise professional judgment and discretion to ensure the chief/lead engineer is kept
    informed of significant negative performance impacts.




                                          Robert D. LaBrutta Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
TINKERAFBPAM21-424 14 JULY 2011                                                            5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD63-1\AFPD20-1, Acquisition and Sustainment Life Cycle Management
AFI 63-1201, Life Cycle Systems Engineering
AFMCI 63-1201, Implementing Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness and Life Cycle
Systems Engineering
AFPD 62-6, Developmental Engineering
MIL-HDBK-61A, Configuration Management Guidance
OC-ALC Manual 90-107, OC-ALC Quality Manual
Adopted Forms
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
 6                                                TINKERAFBPAM21-424 14 JULY 2011


                                       Attachment 2
        ACTIVITIES MOST LIKELY TO GENERATE TECHNICAL CHANGES

(with related major instructional documents noted for reference)
Note: These are only typical technical change forms and documents from the AF. There are also
additional equivalent forms and documents from other services.

AFMC Form 202, Nonconforming Technical Assistance Request and Reply
  AFMC Manual 21-1, Air Force Materiel Command Technical Order System Procedures

AFTO Form 22, Technical Manual Improvement Report and Reply
     TO 00-5-1, Air Force Technical Order System
     AFMC Manual 21-1, Air Force Materiel Command Technical Order System Procedures

AFTO Form 252, Technical Order Publication Change Request
AFTO Form 27, Preliminary Technical Order (PTO) Publication Change Request (PCR)/TO
Verification Record/Approval
       TO 00-5-1, Air Force Technical Order System
       AFMC Manual 21-1, Air Force Materiel Command Technical Order System Procedures

AF Form 3925, Engineering Order, (formerly AF Form 2600) and associated continuation
sheets or parts lists
        AFI 21-402, Engineering Drawing System

AF Form 1067, Modification Proposal

Time Compliance Technical Orders (TCTOs)
      AFMC Manual 21-1, Air Force Materiel Command Technical Order System Procedures
      TO 00-5-15, Air Force Time Compliance Technical Order System

Repair Enhancement Process and Materiel Control
       AFMCI 21-129, Depot Maintenance Management, Depot Repair Enhancement Process
       (DREP)
       AFMCI 21-130, Depot Maintenance Materiel Control

MISHAP Investigation
     AFMC Manual 21-1, Air Force Materiel Command Technical Order System Procedures

Material Improvement Projects/ Deficiency Reports (MIP/DR)
      TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution
      AFMCI 63-510, Deficiency Reporting, Investigation and Resolution
      AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports

Software Deficiency Reporting
       AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
       TO 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting, Investigation, and Resolution
TINKERAFBPAM21-424 14 JULY 2011                                                          7



Engineering Change Proposal (ECP)
      MIL-HDBK-61A, Configuration Management Guidance


Product Improvement Initiative
       AFI 21-118, Improving Air and Space Equipment Reliability and Maintainability
       AFMCI 23-121, AFMC Improved Item Replacement Program (IIRP) Guidance and
       Demand Reduction Imitative (DRI) Guidance and Procedures
       AFMC Form 562, Improved Item Replacement Program (IIRP) Operating Command(s)
       and HQ AFMC Pre-Approval
     AFMC Form 563, Operating Command(s) Improved Item Replacement Program (IIRP)
       Formal Package Approval
     AFMC Form 565, Improved Item Replacement Program Effectiveness Indicators

Source Maintenance, and Recoverability Code Change Report
       TO 00-25-195, AF Technical Order System Source, Maintenance, and Recoverability
       Coding of Air Force Weapons, Systems, and Equipments

Test Equipment Update
       AFI 21-118, Improving Aerospace Equipment Reliability and Maintainability

Deviations/Clarifications/Waivers
       AFMCI 23-102, Purchase Request/Military Interdepartmental Purchase Request
       (PR/MIPR) Operations

DLA Forms 339, Request for Engineering Support
     DLAI 3200.1/PAM 715.13/NAVSUPINST 4120.30A/AFI 21-408/MCO 4000.18,
     Engineering Support for Items Supplied by Defense Logistics Agency and General
     Services Administration

IDEA Program
     AFI 38-401, The Air Force Innovative Development Through Employee Awareness
     (IDEA) Program

Source Approval
      Oklahoma City Air Logistics, Source Approval Information Booklet
      AFMC Form 343, Quality Assurance Assessment
      AFMCI 23-113, Pre-Award Qualification of new or Additional Parts Sources and the
      use of the Source Approval Request (SAR)
      AFMC Form 761, AMC/AMSC Screening Analysis Worksheet (including engineering
      data list, engineering instructions, and support documents)
      AFMC Form 762, Contract Repair Screening Analysis Worksheet
      AFI 23-105, Spares Breakout Program
 8                                                     TINKERAFBPAM21-424 14 JULY 2011


                                           Attachment 3
     TECHNICAL CHANGE LOGISTICS SUPPORTABILITY CHECKLIST (SAMPLE)



To the extent possible, these issues will be resolved prior to implementation of the technical
change. Action on issues identified in this checklist should be accomplished by the appropriate
logistics specialist. In certain cases a critical safety or maintenance support issue will require
response in a very short time. At a minimum, potential impacts to cost, schedule, or other
logistics supportability issues should be identified and reviewed shortly after the initial technical
change to make necessary adjustments to logistics planning or cost figures.

Parts Shortage/Availability Issues:

     1. Verify current parts shortage with prime item manager or data system(s).

     2. Check delivery schedule and quantities to determine if further action is required.

     3. Check for local purchase availability with approved part numbers and sources.

     4. Check local surplus material availability with approved part numbers and Commercial and
     Government Entity (CAGE) codes.

     5. Can item be locally manufactured prior to delivery of needed parts?

     6. If cost effective and no known alternatives will satisfy the requirement, can part/material
     be obtained through emergency buy procedures (other than local purchase)?

     7. Determine replacement percent for incoming and in shop assets.

       7a. If replacement percent is low enough, get with the item manager/production
       management specialist for funded cannibalization action.

       7b. If replacement percent is low enough and part is utilized on other end items, get with
       item manager/production management specialist for possible funded cannibalization
       action on other applications.

     8. Check applications, programs, and indentures (API) for other affected next higher
     assemblies (NHAs) and provide other equipment specialists with info copy with their NHAs
     identified.

     9. Update to management systems to reflect changes in parts replacement percentage for
     future supportability.

     10. Will technical change force additional maintenance man-hour usage or increase material
     costs in any other ways than part usage changes?
TINKERAFBPAM21-424 14 JULY 2011                                                              9



  11. Will technical change require purchase of additional equipment to complete the task? If
  new equipment is required, acquisition and installation will be coordinated with engineers
  and resource managers in the affected maintenance activity.


  NOTE: The following options (12-16) may involve use of parts or materials not specifically
  identified in existing technical guidance and could pose the potential for performance
  degradation. For this reason use of any of these options will be evaluated by engineering
  personnel. The chief/lead engineer is ultimately responsible for technical aspects of system
  performance in accordance with the Systems Engineering Plan necessary to maintain
  product quality standards. Organizations will ensure their processes keep the chief/lead
  engineer informed of technical changes that may significantly impact performance to allow
  the chief/lead engineer to influence the outcome of the technical change. As with other
  considerations, time constraints may force this to occur as soon after the initial technical
  change as possible. Sound judgement must be exercised to decide which cases should be
  delayed for actual approval by the chief/lead engineer or a designated alternate.

  12. Can part be utilized “as is” during parts shortage on a one time authority with special
  inspection/deviation (or permanently with an AFTO Form 252)?

  13. Can new rework instructions be utilized on a one time authority with special instructions
  (or permanently with an AFTO Form 252)?

  14. Can a substitute part be utilized on a one time authority with part number and National
  Stock Number identified (or permanently with an AFTO Form 252)?

  15. If need is great enough, determine if part or end item can be obtained from Aerospace
  Maintenance and Regeneration Group.

  16. Is check and test of end item feasible until part becomes available?
