BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                       33-112

                                                                            18 AUGUST 2014
                                                       Certified Current On 12 September 2014
                                                             Communications and Information

                                                          INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
                                                       HARDWARE ASSET MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 72 ABW/SCXO                                                      Certified by: 72 ABW/SC
                                                                           (Ms. Brenda K. Hill)
Supersedes:   TINKERAFBI33-112,                                                        Pages: 10
              5 January 2000


This instruction establishes local procedures for the procurement, management, and protection of
Information Technology (IT) hardware assets. NOTE: AFMAN 33-153 will be referenced for
primary IT Asset Management (ITAM) requirements. It applies to all organizations at
Tinker AFB except the following: Navy, 507th USAF Reserve, Defense Information Service
Agency (DISA), and Air National Guard (ANG). Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field thr

ugh the appropriate functional point of contact’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and should be reviewed in its entirety.
Specifically, it conforms to new format requirements, reflects the implementation of AFMAN
33-153, and introduces local forms Tinker Form 30, Computer System Add or GPC and Tinker
Form 32, Computer System Equipment Action.
1. Responsibilities. It is the responsibility of each person who procures, accounts for, uses,
and/or manages government property to ensure strict accountable records and security are
 2                                                     TINKERAFBI33-112 18 AUGUST 2014


maintained on every accountable item from the time of procurement until the time of disposal.
“Cradle-to-grave” management is required of all Sensitive and accountable Non-Sensitive IT
assets at Tinker AFB (In Accordance With (IAW) AFMAN 33-153, paragraph 2.4.3, 19 March
2014).
2. General Procedures
     2.1. Central Procurement of Accountable IT Assets: IT Assets will be procured through
     an Air Force managed program, i.e. Quarterly Enterprise Buy (QEB) using Air Force Way
     (AFWay) or Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA). All commanders and directors will ensure
     coordination of Tinker AFB Form 3215, SC Base Communications Request (BCR) through
     72 ABW/SCXP.
     2.2. Central Delivery of Accountable IT Assets: All accountable IT hardware asset
     purchases will be delivered to the Equipment Control Officer (ECO), 72 ABW/SCXO at the
     ITAM Office Warehouse, Building 469, Door 33 for receipt and processing. Exceptions
     must be coordinated with 72 ABW/SCXO during the requirements phase of the purchase.
     2.3. Numbered Asset Accountability: IT Equipment Custodians (ITECs) will account for
     all IT assets by serial number and nomenclature as described by the ECO.
     2.4. Pilferable Assets: Some assets do not meet the Asset Inventory Management System
     (AIMS) threshold (i.e. computer memory chips, digital cameras, etc.) but still require
     management's attention to ensure reasonable insulation from theft. Commanders and
     directors will determine a threshold of acceptable risk for such assets and will provide their
     definition to their organizations Government Purchase Card (GPC) coordinator. For
     example, a stated threshold could be "any asset with a purchase price of $400 or more."
     Commanders and directors or their designated delegates will ensure assets meeting the stated
     criteria are tracked using the format in Attachment 2 and make the spreadsheet available to
     the GPC coordinator for audit purposes.
3. Specific Responsibilities
     3.1. Commanders/Directors. Commanders and Directors will:
        3.1.1. Submit annually, for each account managed, an appointment letter identifying a
        minimum of one primary and one alternate ITEC meeting grade requirements specified in
        AFMAN 33-153, paragraph 1.2.14.1.1. Appointment letter format will be IAW with
        guidelines established by the ECO.
        3.1.2. Ensure ITAM accounts are wisely designed for a manageable span of control by
        the custodian. If automated inventories are not available, ITAM accounts should be of a
        size that can be physically inventoried within two (2) workdays or less. ITECs will be
        physically near their equipment and accounts will not span multiple buildings.
        Exceptions must be coordinated with 72 ABW/SCXO ITAM Office.
        3.1.3. Direct ITECs to conduct annual physical inventories of their account as outlined
        by the ECO. Requests for extensions will be submitted to the ECO for consideration.
        3.1.4. Ensure ITECs are relieved of other responsibilities during mandatory annual
        inventories until such time as the inventory has been completed.
TINKERAFBI33-112 18 AUGUST 2014                                                            3


     3.1.5. Ensure positive action is taken to account for and properly secure equipment
     during unit moves, reorganizations, or facility remodeling.
  3.2. Equipment Control Officer (ECO). 72 ABW/SCXO serves as the ECO and maintains
  ultimate responsibility for the management of IT hardware assets within AFMC units and
  designated tenants at TAFB. The ECO, or designated authority, will coordinate all unit
  ITAM inventory management issues through the organizational commander/director and the
  Organization Computer Manager (OCM) if one exists.
  3.3. Organization Computer Manager (OCM): An OCM may be appointed by the
  organization commander/director as the focal point for computer operation issues. The OCM
  will:
     3.3.1. Validate ITAM requirements within their organization.
     3.3.2. Process all TAFB Form 3215s, SC BCR, within their organization and forward to
     the appropriate office for action.
     3.3.3. Advise ITECs in accomplishing their assigned duties and responsibilities in
     accordance with direction from the ECO.
     3.3.4. Coordinate ITEC training requirements with the ECO.
     3.3.5. Coordinate with the ECO and ITECs to ensure completion of all physical
     inventories.
  3.4. IT Equipment Custodians (ITEC). The ITEC manages IT resources within their area
  of responsibility and is accountable to the ECO for every item on their inventory. The ITEC
  will:
     3.4.1. Coordinate with the ECO and/or OCM regarding all ITAM inventory management
     issues.
     3.4.2. Maintain adequate and organized records of all transactions regarding their
     account IAW ECO guidance. When constructing automated tracking systems, the basic
     information of the system must, as a minimum, contain the data in AIMS. Specifically,
     the minimum fields allowed will consist of Manufacturer (MFR), Model (MODEL),
     Serial Number (SERIAL) and Component Identification (COMPID).
     3.4.3. Ensure the ECO and/or OCM is aware of any changes to information regarding the
     primary and/or alternate custodians or their account.
     3.4.4. Coordinate with the ECO and/or OCM to attend the appropriate training before
     accepting responsibility of an account, and provide training certification to the ECO
     and/or OCM upon completion of the required training.
     3.4.5. Sign the appropriate inventory to acknowledge formal accountability and
     responsibility.
     3.4.6. Coordinate with the organization commander/director when conducting annual
     physical inventories. The guidelines for accomplishing the annual inventory are
     determined by the ECO at the time of the inventory.
 4                                                    TINKERAFBI33-112 18 AUGUST 2014


        3.4.7. Route requests for extensions to the inventory suspense date to the ECO through
        the squadron commander or equivalent. Extension requests not routed through the
        squadron commander or equivalent may be disapproved.
        3.4.8. Ensure ITAM identification labels are located on each item listed on the inventory.
        Labels must be accurate, legible, and current at all times. New labels are required when a
        label is no longer legible. These are available upon request from the ECO.
        3.4.9. Coordinate with the ECO to add newly acquired accountable IT hardware account
        when it becomes government property. The information required to add new equipment
        to the AIM database must be provided to the ECO within five (5) days of delivery.
        Requests to add equipment to the AIM database will be submitted using Tinker Form 30,
        Computer System Add or GPC (Attachment 3). The form is available on the Tinker IT
        Asset Management SharePoint site.
        3.4.10. Coordinate with the ECO to transfer accountable IT hardware assets between
        accounts within the same Defense Reporting Activity (DRA). Transfer requests will be
        submitted using Tinker Form 32, Computer System Equipment Action (Attachment 4).
        The form is available on the Tinker IT Asset Management SharePoint site.
        3.4.11. Review their account quarterly for excess IT assets. IT assets deemed excess will
        be reported to the ECO for re-utilization. The ITEC must report the Manufacturer
        (MFR), Model (MODEL), Serial Number (SERIAL), Component Identification
        (COMPID) Number and Condition Code for each item.
        3.4.12. Conduct a joint physical inventory before relieving or passing responsibility to a
        new appointee.
        3.4.13. Notify the ECO via DD Form 1149, Requisition and Invoice/Shipping Document
        prior to deploying or transferring computer systems outside AFMC organizations at
        Tinker AFB. The ECO will obtain signed authorization in block 10 from the MAJCOM
        ECO (MECO) prior to shipment.
     3.5. IT Hardware Asset Users. Users are responsible for the overall safeguarding and
     welfare of IT hardware assets under their control. In addition, users will:
        3.5.1. Maintain a clean and secure environment for their assigned IT hardware assets.
        3.5.2. Not relocate any IT hardware asset without approval from their ITEC.
        3.5.3. Notify their ITEC immediately if a piece of equipment is damaged or lost.
        3.5.4. Not attempt to repair or upgrade IT hardware assets.
4. Training Requirements
     4.1. Initial Training: ITECs will receive formal training by the ECO prior to accepting
     responsibility for an account. Documentation of training completion must be kept on file
     with the ECO and in the ITEC file folder. The ECO schedules the student load and
     frequency of this training.
     4.2. Refresher Training: ITECs require refresher training annually and will satisfy this
     requirement using a training link provided on the Tinker IT Asset Management SharePoint
     site.
TINKERAFBI33-112 18 AUGUST 2014                                                               5


5. Control Measures
   5.1. Physical inventories will be completed at least annually. The commander/director will
   certify accuracy and completion of all inventories by endorsing them.
   5.2. ITECs will submit an Annual Requirements Package consisting of their annual
   inventory, an updated appointment letter using the latest template from the ITAM SharePoint
   site, and training certificates for both the primary and alternate to the 72 ABW/SCXO ITAM
   Workflow by the 10th of the month their annual requirements are due. All items will be
   signed and dated within the same month. Partial packages will be returned to ITECs to hold
   until all requirements are complete.
   5.3. The ECO will notify ITECs 30 – 45 days prior to the month their annual requirements
   are due. The month requirements are due will be determined using the annual inventory.
   The ECO will send a second notification if requirements are not received by the 10th of the
   month in which they are due. A new suspense date two weeks from the date the follow up
   notification is sent will be established. If ITECs fail to meet that suspense, the ECO will
   initiate an elevation process that begins at division/squadron level, proceeds to
   directorate/group, and ends at wing level.
   5.4. ITAM accounts 30 or more days delinquent will be frozen in AIM and new purchases
   disallowed until the account becomes compliant. ITAM Accounts 60 or more days
   delinquent will also have all transactions (i.e. additions, transfers, AFWAY order approvals,
   etc.) suspended until the account is brought into compliance. The only exceptions will be for
   transactions necessary to achieve a clean inventory.
   5.5. Acquisition of accountable IT hardware assets by use of GPC requires submission of
   TAFB Form 3215, SC BCR to 72 ABW/SCX.




                                           CHRISTOPHER P. AZZANO, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 6                                               TINKERAFBI33-112 18 AUGUST 2014


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, 18 November 2008
AFMAN 33-153, Information Technology (IT) Asset Management (ITAM), 19 March 2014
Prescribed Forms
Tinker Form 30, Computer System Add or GPC, 20131125, V1
Tinker Form 32, Computer System Equipment Action, 20131127, V1
Adopted Forms
Tinker Form 30, Computer System Add or GPC, 20131125, V1
Tinker Form 32, Computer System Equipment Action, 20131127, V1

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFWay—Air Force Way
AIMS—Asset Inventory Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
BCR—Base Communications Request
BPA—Blanket Purchase Agreement
COMPID—Component Identification
DISA—Defense Information Service Agency
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DRA—Defense Reporting Activity
ECO—Equipment Control Officer
GPC—Government Purchase Card
IT—Information Technology
ITAM—Information Technology Asset Management
ITEC—Information Technology Equipment Custodian
MECO—MAJCOM ECO
MFR—Manufacturer
OCM—Organization Computer Manager
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
QEB—Quarterly Enterprise Buy
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TINKERAFBI33-112 18 AUGUST 2014                                                            7


SERIAL—Serial Number

Terms
Accountable IT Hardware Assets— All computer hardware with the exception of internal
components and pilferable items, as defined below.
Pilferable Items— Those items which are not eligible for tracking within standard asset
accounting systems, such as AIMS, but retain value off base and can be easily transported off
base.
 8                                               TINKERAFBI33-112 18 AUGUST 2014


                                     Attachment 2
              PILFERABLE ITEM TRACKING SPREADSHEET SAMPLE

Figure A2.1. Sample Pilferable Item Tracking Spreadsheet
     Name:                                    Account Nbr:
       Org:                     Pilferable Item Definition:

  Date                                                                     Office   ADPE
Purchased     Nomenclature     Part Nbr Unit Cost    Qty      Recipient   Symbol    (Y/N)
TINKERAFBI33-112 18 AUGUST 2014                     9


                                 Attachment 3
                  SAMPLE COMPUTER SYSTEM ADD FORM

Figure A3.1. Sample Computer System Add Form
 10                                         TINKERAFBI33-112 18 AUGUST 2014


                                  Attachment 4
          SAMPLE COMPUTER SYSTEM EQUIPMENT ACTION FORM

Figure A4.1. Sample Computer System Equipment Action Form
