BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             TINKER AIR FORCE BASE
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                     INSTRUCTION24-302

                                                                                      14 MAY 2013

                                                                                     Transportation

                                                      GOVERNMENT MOTOR VEHICLE (GMV)
                                                        ACCIDENT/ABUSE, OPERATION AND
                                                             OFFICIAL USE PROCEDURES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This Tinker Air Force Base Instruction (TAFBI) is available for
               downloading from the e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There is no releasability restriction on this publication.


OPR: 72 LRS/LGLOC                                                      Certified by: 72 LRS/CL
                                                                                       Pages: 18
Supersedes:    TINKERAFBI24-2, 2 July 2008,
               TINKERAFBI24-1, 21 May 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-3, Management, Operation
and Use of Transportation Vehicles. It reinforces Headquarters United States Air Force Vehicle
Management/Operations procedures and establishes expanded and/or revised procedures for
implementing and managing the vehicle and vehicular equipment accident and abuse program,
reimbursement of funds and GMV operations and official use procedures. Some of these
objectives, policies and responsibilities are derived from overarching policy in AFI 24-302,
Vehicle Management, 26 June 2012, AFI24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008 and
DOD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles, 16 March 2007. This
instruction is applicable to all Air Force personnel assigned or attached to Tinker AFB and also
applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), except where noted otherwise. It also applies
to all Tinker AFB tenant units that possess a Support Agreement with the 72 Air Base Wing,
however, it does not apply to the Civil Air Patrol (CAP) or non-appropriated fund activities.
Send comments for suggested improvements on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication, to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR); route AF IMT 847s
through publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the AF Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.           This publication may only be
supplemented by the OPR.
 2                                                                         TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Publication has been substantially revised and must be reviewed in its entirety.


        1.     Vehicle Accident/Abuse Program: ........................................................................    2
        2.     Vehicle Accident/Abuse Program Procedures: ......................................................           3
        3.     GMV Operation and Official Use Policy: ..............................................................       5

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                             8

Attachment 2—PAYMENT AUTHORIZATION MEMO (SAMPLE)                                                                          13

Attachment 3—REQUEST FOR RELEASE MEMO (SAMPLE)                                                                            14

Attachment 4—VEHICLE ACCIDENT/ABUSE NOTIFICATION MEMO (SAMPLE)                                                            15

Attachment 5—ORGANIZATION ACCIDENT/ABUSE RELEASE FOR REPAIRS
             MEMO (SAMPLE)                                                                                                16

Attachment 6—GMV REQUEST FOR TRANSPORTATION (SAMPLE)                                                                      17


1. Vehicle Accident/Abuse Program:
     1.1. General Information:
        1.1.1. The purpose of this program is to establish local procedures for vehicle
        accidents/abuses, and inform all using organizations, whether AFMC assigned or Tenant
        with an approved Support Agreement, on their responsibilities.
        1.1.2. This instruction is applicable to all Air Force personnel assigned or attached to
        Tinker AFB and also applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), except where
        noted otherwise. It also applies to all Tinker AFB tenant units that possess a Support
        Agreement with the 72 Air Base Wing, however, it does not apply to the Civil Air Patrol
        (CAP) or non-appropriated fund activities. This instruction applies to all squadron
        commanders/directors, Vehicle Control Officers (VCO), Vehicle Control
        Noncommissioned Officers (VCNCO), and vehicle operators. Commander/Director
        emphasis and direct involvement is essential to the program's success. The vehicle
        operator is responsible for preventing vehicle and vehicular equipment abuse/accidents.
        The operator will report any vehicle damage immediately to the VCO/VCNCO. The unit
        VCO/VCNCO shall immediately report discrepancies to Vehicle Management, 72
        LRS/LGRVM. Unreported damage to an Air Force vehicle indicates that the unit
        operator or VCO/VCNCO is not inspecting vehicles properly and may result in the
        accident being considered abuse. Vehicle Management is responsible for documentation
        and tracking of accident/abuse damage.
     1.2. The ultimate goal of this program is to reduce vehicle and vehicular equipment
     accidents and/or abuses at Tinker AFB, protect Air Force personnel from injury and/or death
     and eliminate unnecessary expenditure of monetary resources. The Logistics Readiness
TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013                                                                    3


   Squadron (LRS) Commander or equivalent establishes local reporting procedures and these
   procedures must be fully supported by all commanders to be totally effective.
   1.3. Vehicle accident is basically a result of a collision. Vehicle abuse is considered damage
   caused by willful or negligent acts of improper operation or care. Vehicle abuse may result in
   early failure of components and affect the safe operation of the vehicle. The base vehicle
   management function is funded and staffed to provide preventive periodic maintenance and
   repairs due to fair wear and tear, but not for accident and abuse repairs. Using organizations
   fund for costs associated with government-owned, rental/lease vehicle abuse and/or accident
   damage.
      1.3.1. The keys to successfully reducing the number of accidents and abuses are to
      encourage commanders to maintain high standards of vehicle operator training and
      discipline and to make base personnel aware of the costs associated with accident and
      abuse case repairs.
      1.3.2. Preventive Maintenance and Inspection (PM&I) is the primary method the 72
      Logistics Readiness Squadron Vehicle Management Flight (72 LRS/LGRVM) can ensure
      a safe and serviceable vehicle fleet. These inspections are time-critical and must be
      completed at certain intervals to meet manufacturer and Air Force serviceability criteria.
      Therefore, agencies who fail to meet or reschedule their assigned scheduled maintenance
      on or before their assigned appointment dates will be issued a vehicle abuse.
   1.4. Incidents are classified as damage caused by acts of nature, natural disasters, mechanical
   failures or other phenomenon that in no way could have been avoided by safe operation or
   adequate vehicle care during non-use. The Vehicle Fleet Manager/Vehicle Management
   Superintendent (VFM/VMS) is the fleet management functional expert with the authority to
   determine what is/is not classified as an incident. Using organizations are not required to
   reimburse for damage caused by incidents. NOTE: Wind damage to vehicle doors is NOT
   an act of nature.
2. Vehicle Accident/Abuse Program Procedures:
   2.1. All Government Motor Vehicles (GMV), to include all GSA assigned assets, involved
   in an accident, or found to have damage not previously reported, must be turned into 72
   LRS/LGRVM as soon as possible, but no later than the next duty day. The Vehicle
   Management Flight will initiate an Accident/Abuse Estimate work order and estimate the
   cost of repairs. For GSA leased vehicles, Vehicle Management will review the damage and
   provide the using organization further instructions concerning off-base repairs by GSA
   approved vendors. The use of these vendors will be rotated to the maximum extent possible
   to preclude any perception of sole-sourcing. Photographs will be taken of vehicle damage to
   aid in further investigation. A letter with attached photographs identifying the accident or
   abuse damage will be signed by the 72nd Logistics Readiness Squadron
   Commander/Director (LRS/CL) or equivalent and routed through the squadron commander
   and VCO/VCNCO of the assigned organization. NOTE: The GSA turn-in procedures
   referred to in paragraph 2.1 only apply to those vehicles assigned to 72 ABW Billed Office
   Address Code(s) (BOAC). Upon receipt of the GSA accident report Vehicle Management
   will then initiate all other procedures.
4                                                       TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013


    2.2. All Vehicle Management operation & maintenance (O&M) funds expended for vehicle
    accident and abuse repair costs, including contract cost, will be reimbursed to 72
    LRS/LGRVM, Vehicle Management by the owning organization or the organization
    responsible for the damage if not the owner.
       2.2.1. Where responsibility cannot be determined, the owning organization will be
       responsible for reimbursement. Commanders must initiate a DD Form 200, Financial
       Liability Investigation of Property Loss, investigating the circumstances involving any
       accident or suspected vehicle abuse case where gross negligence is suspected. An
       Investigating Officer investigates accident/abuse incidences and completes Report of
       Survey (ROS) IAW AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property (being
       replaced with AFI 23-101, Material Management) when there is evidence of gross
       negligence, willful misconduct, or deliberate unauthorized use pertaining to the loss,
       damage, or destruction of a government vehicle or when the vehicle property records
       must be adjusted (i.e. the vehicle is a total loss). Vehicle Management notifies the
       applicable commander or equivalent and VCO/VCNCO of the unit involved, along with
       Base Legal, Finance and Safety Office as applicable, Attachment 4. In the event of a
       government owned vehicle accident, include a copy of the accident report for Base Safety
       Office use. Vehicle Management will commence with repair within ten (10) days unless
       notified otherwise by the using organization or ROS investigating official. NOTE: If a
       government owned vehicle caused a fatality or was involved in a fatality or an accident
       with private property the Base Legal Office must release the vehicle before repairs
       commence.
       2.2.2. Funds will be reimbursed to 72 LRS/LGRVM, Vehicle Management as follows.
          2.2.2.1. For HQ AFMC assigned blue fleet vehicles, reimbursable organizations will
          be billed monthly via the OLVIMS V-12 reimbursable report which is issued after
          monthly processing is completed, normally, no later than ten (10) days into a new
          month. Non-reimbursable organizations will reimburse funds based upon contact
          from the 72 LRS Resource Advisor(s) (RA) utilizing final documentation provided by
          Vehicle Management & Analysis after vehicle repairs have been completed as
          outlined in paragraph 2.2.3.
          2.2.2.2. For GSA lease assigned vehicles, the 72 ABW sets aside O&M funds in
              their execution plan to cover all aspects of the GSA lease program. In the event
          that this funding is exhausted, the 72 ABW and/or 72 LRS RA(s) would contact the
          assigned organization, for the GSA vehicle in question, to obtain
              reimbursement. NOTE: The GSA vehicle reimbursement procedures outlined in
          paragraph 2.2.2.2 only apply to those GSA vehicles assigned to 72 ABW Billed
          Office Address Code(s) (BOAC).
       2.2.3. Accident/Abuse documentation will be submitted to Vehicle Management and
       processed as follows.
          2.2.3.1. The AF Form 1800 or AF Form 1807, Standard Form 91, Motor Vehicle
              Accident Report, and DD Form 518, Accident Identification Card, must be
              completed with all pertinent information and provided upon vehicle turn-in to 72
          LRS/LGRVM. The vehicle will not be considered reported to maintenance until the
          vehicle and all forms are properly submitted. The reporting party must record the
TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013                                                                   5


          name and rank of the responding Security Force’s individual in block 81 of the
          Standard Form 91.
          2.2.3.2. Customer Service Center (CSC) personnel will notify the VFM/VMS and
          initiate the appropriate estimate AF Form 1823 or AF Form 1823-1 (computer
          generated). The estimate work order will be used to estimate accident/abuse repair
          cost only. Actual repairs will be documented using an Accident or Abuse Actual AF
          Form 1823/-1, and will not be initiated until the organization of responsibility
          releases the vehicle for repairs, Attachment 5. Only accident or abuse related repairs
          will be documented on the actual work order. Any other unscheduled repairs or
          scheduled services will be completed on an unscheduled or scheduled maintenance
          work order to follow. NOTE: When computing estimated cost for repairing accident
          damage, indirect cost is included only to determine one-time repair limitations.
          2.2.3.3. VM&A will prepare an AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value
              Statement, when required or requested by the Surveying Officer. NOTE: Both
          military and civilian Direct Labor charges computed by OLVIMS are used for
          determining labor cost for in-house repairs of vehicles/equipment on the AF Form 20.
      2.2.4. Accident and abuse case statistics will be tracked by VM&A and reported to
      squadron, group and wing-level leadership.
3. GMV Operation and Official Use Policy:
   3.1. Operation:
      3.1.1. Vehicle operators and using organizations are responsible for and will perform at a
      minimum the inspections, servicing, and maintenance as well as the recording of vehicle
      discrepancies (on the appropriate AF Form 1800 or AF Form 1807) and maintenance -in
      as outlined in AFI24-302, paragraph 3.19, Chapter 10 and specifically Section 10C, in
      their entirety.
          3.1.1.1. 72 LRS/LGRVM normal hours of operation are 0700 thru 1600 hours daily,
          5 days per week, with the exception of recognized holidays and a Contractor
          authorized lunch period from 1100-1200 daily. Scheduled maintenance inspections
          will be accepted Monday through Wednesday during these same hours of operation.
          NOTES: 1. Some vehicle types do not require a documented full
          serviceability/functional check daily, and/or before use. However, vehicle operators
          will perform a visual inspection or walk-around prior to use. The vehicle operator will
          ensure the vehicle does not have unreported damage, visually low/flat tires, fluid
          leaks or puddles forming under the vehicle. 2. Vehicle operators are responsible for
          checking and servicing Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF) levels for vehicles that require
          that product. 3. Tire pressure checks/adjustments will be accomplished by the 10th of
          each month and documented on the applicable Operator‘s Inspection Guide and
          Trouble Report form. For vehicles equipped with electronic Tire Pressure Monitoring
          System (TPMS), vehicle operators will perform visual inspection of tires to ensure
          proper operation of TPMS dash indicator and check for unusual wear or damage.
          Refer to AFI 24-302, Section 7B Operator's Inspection Guide and Trouble Report
          Forms for further guidance. 4. During the monthly tire pressure check/adjustment,
          operators will check spare tire pressure and adjust as needed (if applicable). 5. When
6                                                           TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013


           equipment operators are responsible for lubricating equipment before and during use,
           Vehicle Management will advise operators regarding the lubricant to be used, tools
           needed and frequency of lubrication. The using organization procures required tools
           and lubricants, and is responsible for replacing equipment and special tools lost, worn
           or damaged beyond economical repair. 6. The list of safety-related discrepancies in
           AFI 24-302, paragraph 3.19 is not all-inclusive or may not cover all vehicle types.
           Vehicle operators should contact Vehicle Management if there are any questions
           concerning vehicle discrepancies and/or safety.
       3.1.2. Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances (OGMVC), trailers not classified
       as vehicles and non-vehicular equipment procurement, maintenance and management
       will comply with all policies as outlined in AFI 24-302, paragraph 3.17 and 10.4.4 in
       their entirety.
    3.2. Official Use:
       3.2.1. Unauthorized use of GMVs often results in unnecessary expenditure of funds and
       public criticism. Transportation by a DOD motor vehicle shall not be provided when the
       justification is based solely on reasons of rank, position, prestige, or personal
       convenience. Although the major goal of Vehicle Operations is to provide quality
       support, commanders, vehicle operators, and the base populace must know vehicle use
       restrictions and what constitutes official use.
       3.2.2. 72 LRS/LGRDD will restrict the use of all DOD motor vehicles, including those
       rented or leased, for official purposes only; in support of authorized DOD functions,
       activities or operations. Providing a government vehicle solely or principally to enhance
       the comfort or convenience of member(s) is not permitted. Determinations regarding any
                question of authorized support for such activities will be resolved in favor of strict
                compliance with rules outlined in AFI 24-301, specifically Chapter 3 and
       Attachments 8 and 9, to preclude any negative public perception.
           3.2.2.1. All requests will be accomplished on the GMV Request for Transportation,
           Attachment 6, and submitted to the individuals and within the established timelines
           located on the form. Requests which appear to conflict with governing directives will
           be referred to 72 LRS/LGRDD, Vehicle Operations Supervisor for evaluation; this
           element is staffed with trained experts capable of making an official use
           determination. This form can be found on the Tinker AFB Home Page under Base
           Services/Information/Tinker Shuttle Route or by accessing the following link:
           https://wwwmil.tinker.af.mil/shuttle_schedule/shuttle_schedule.asp
               3.2.2.1.1. All requests will be routed through the unit VCO/VCNCO or
               designated vehicle POC (if no VCO/VCNCO assigned) prior to submission to
               Vehicle Operations to ensure that assigned organizational assets are considered
               to fulfill the request.
           3.2.2.2. When guidance does not specifically fit a request for transportation support,
           commanders must document answers to the questions located in AFI 24-301,
           paragraph 3.5 prior to 72 LRS/LGRDD approving the use of the government motor
           vehicle(s) being requested. NOTE: Final determination on all Distinguished Visitor
           (DV) requests will be made by the 72 LRS/CL.
TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013                                                                   7


     3.2.3. Misuse or acts/omissions resulting in misuse of GMVs (owned, rented, or leased)
     may result in disciplinary action. All military and civilian employees need to take
     appropriate measures to prevent misuse, abuse, or willful acts/omissions that could cause
     damage to GMVs. Directing personnel to violate official use restrictions is an unlawful
     order and should be reported to command or other appropriate agencies. Negligence,
     willful misconduct, or deliberate unauthorized use of a GMV may result in disciplinary
     action as outlined in AFI 24-301, paragraph 3.2.
        3.2.3.1. Report all suspected misuses to 72 LRS/LGRDD or LGRVM, Vehicle
        Operations or VFM. Vehicle Operations or the VFM will conduct a technical
        assessment of the incident to determine if regulatory official use guidance has been
        violated. Technical assessments will include, at a minimum; the vehicle’s make,
        model, and vehicle registration number, and the date, time, and location of incident.
        Finally, clearly state the offense and official use references substantiating the misuse.
        3.2.3.2. Vehicle Operations will brief overall base status of this program at periodic
        scheduled VCO/VCNCO meetings.




                                          STEVEN J. BLEYMAIER, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                                                       TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 01 November 2008
AFI 24-302, Vehicle Management, 26 Jun 2012
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 14 July 2000
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 5 August 2011
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 27 October 2011
AFCSM 24-1, On-Line Vehicle Interactive Management System (OLVIMS), 1 September 1997
AFMA 24-306(I), Manual for Wheeled Vehicle Operator, 1 July 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 01 July 1996
AFPD 24-3, Operation and use of Ground Transportation Vehicles, 07 Jul 2010
TO 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance, 20 July
2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement, 11 March 2003
AF Form 1800, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report, 1 April 2010
AF Form 1807, Operator’s Inspection Guide and Trouble Report (Fuel Servicing Vehicles), 1
June 2012
AF Form 1823, Vehicle and Equipment Work Order, 1 December 1979
AF Form 1823-1, Vehicle and Equipment Work Order (computer generated)
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss, 1 July 2009
DD Form 518, Accident Identification Card, 1 October 1978
Standard Form (SF) 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report, February 2004

Abbreviations and Acronym
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013                                                                   9


BOAC—Billed Office Address Code
CAP—Civil Air Patrol
COR—Contracting Officer Representative
DOD—Department of Defense
FD/FC—Functional Director/Functional Commander
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
GPC—Government Purchase Card
GSA—General Services Administration
NON—REMS – Non-Registered Equipment Management System
OLVIMS—On-Line Vehicle Interactive Management System
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
PM&I—Preventive Maintenance and Inspection
RA—Resource Advisor
RDS—Records Distribution Schedule
REMS—Registered Equipment Management System
ROS—Report of Survey
SF—Standard Form
UDI—U-Drive-It
VAL—Vehicle Authorization Listing
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VCNCO—Vehicle Control Noncommissioned Officer
VMS—Vehicle Management Superintendent
VFM—Vehicle Fleet Manager
VPRL—Vehicle Priority Recall Listing
VM&A—Vehicle Management and Analysis

Terms
Activity—A unit physically in existence, with personnel assigned.
Air Force Equipment Management System (AFEMS)—A standard system of equipment
management that applies to all AF activities. It enables the AF to determine, authorize, account
for and report the types and quantities of equipment required to accomplish the AF mission. It is
a primary basis for organizational equipment budget and buy programs.
 10                                                        TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013


Cost Center Code—A code assigned to a function or unit, used to accumulate and distribute
costs.
Cost-Reimbursement Contract.—Cost-reimbursement types of contracts provide for payment
of allowable incurred costs, to the extent prescribed in the contract. These contracts establish an
estimate of total cost for the purpose of obligating funds and establishing a ceiling that the
contractor may not exceed (except at its own risk) without approval of the contracting officer.
Equipment—In logistics, all nonexpendable items needed to outfit or equip an individual or
organization. See also assembly; component; part; subassembly; supplies in Joint Pub 1-02.
Fair Wear and Tear—The deterioration of items attributed to normal usage.
Host—The major commander having jurisdiction over land and other real estate that provides
tenants with facilities or services; also, an organization designated by the MAJCOM or by AF to
furnish support.
Incidental Operator— An employee, other than one occupying a position officially classified
as a motor vehicle operator, who is required to operate a government-owned or -leased motor
vehicle to properly carry out his or her assigned duties.
Low Speed Vehicles (LSV)—Vehicles, whose maximum speed is greater than 19 MPH but less
than 25 MPH will be categorized as a LSV and assigned the appropriate prime NSN based on the
categories listed in Table 4.9. This category must meet 49 CFR Part 571.500 (FMVSS).
Maximum One-Time Repair Allowance—The maximum amount of money that can be
expended at any one time for repairing a vehicle or item of equipment. (Reference TO 36-1-
191.)
Motor Vehicle—Any item of equipment mounted on wheels or tracks that derives motive power
from a self-contained power unit, or is designed to be towed by and used together with such self-
propelled equipment.
Motor Vehicle Accident—An occurrence involving a motor vehicle resulting from a collision
with another moving or stationary object. Mechanical failures resulting from operator abuse or
negligence are not accidents under this definition.
Official Purposes— Any application of a motor vehicle in support of authorized DOD
functions, activities or operations.
Official Travel— The individual is on funded orders and can claim reimbursement for the mode
of travel on a travel voucher. Personnel in a permissive TDY status or on invitational orders can
only ride space-available on transportation that is already authorized/scheduled in support of
personnel on funded orders. The vehicle size or contract cost will not increase to accommodate
space-available personnel.
Operations— Those functions associated with the organization responsible for administering,
planning, directing, and controlling the assignment and movement of transportation equipment
and drivers in the transporting of personnel and cargo.
Operator Inspection and Service— Those maintenance inspections and functions performed by
the operator, before, during, and after operation to ensure the vehicle is safe and serviceable.
TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013                                                                      11


Other Government Motor Vehicle Conveyances (OGMVC)—Self-propelled assets providing
a basic transportation capability (i.e., golf carts, all- terrain vehicles, quad-runners, etc) not
meeting specifications of 49 CFR Part 571 (FMVSS are categorized as Other Government Motor
Vehicle Conveyances and assigned prime NSN 2340-00-585-6195 in AFEMS, AS 036.
Permissible Operating Distance— DOD maintains and operates in peacetime only those owned
or leased motor vehicle assets needed to meet approved DOD emergency and wartime
requirements that cannot be met from commercial transportation resources. Requirements in
excess of DOD capability shall be met by the use of commercial carriers. The POD is that
distance from the installation that GMVs travel before competing with commercial carriers (see
DODD 4500.36-R). As a guide, a 100-mile radius is sufficient to support operations at most
bases. Identify frequently traveled points that exceed the standard radius. Vehicles used to
support the USAF Courier transfer stations, Armed Forces Courier Service, AF Bands, AF
Academy, and AFOSI are exempt from POD limitations.
Preventive Maintenance & Inspection (PM&I)—A planned inspection accomplished at
regular intervals of calendar time, miles, kilometers or hours of operation. (Reference TO 36-1-
191.)
Quality Assurance—An internal government program developed to assess contractor
performance IAW the terms and conditions of the contract and IAW contractor‘s developed
Quality Control Program.
Registered Vehicle—A vehicle assigned a USAF registration number.
Requirement—A need or demand for personnel, equipment, supplies, facilities or services
expressed in specific quantities for specific periods and time.
Serviceability Standard—The standard a vehicle must meet or surpass to be satisfactory for
operation.
Shuttle Service— This fare-free service is established to meet DOD requirements and operates
only in duty areas.
Space Available (Space A)—Any seating available after accommodating space required
passengers. The vehicle size or contract cost will not be increased to accommodate space
available personnel (i.e. if space is required for three passengers to attend an official function, a
bus cannot be scheduled for use to transport additional Space—A passengers desiring
transport to the same or nearby destination).
Taxi Service— Transportation services provided by vehicles dispatched with drivers on an "on-
call" basis without appreciable delay or the need for prior arrangement for service. Taxi service
vehicles may or may not be radio-equipped.
Technical Order (TO)—An AF publication that gives specific technical direction and
information for inspection, storage, operation, modification and maintenance of AF motor
vehicles.
Tenant (on—base or a supported installation)--Any US Armed Forces or foreign
organization, unit, or activity that occupies real property under the jurisdiction of a host
command or that occupies real property under its own jurisdiction but requires support from
 12                                                       TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013


another AF installation in the same locality. A tenant may belong to the same command as the
host organization.
U-Drive-It (UDI)—Vehicles available to using organizations and activities of the installation for
temporary support of official use functions and operated by personnel assigned to the using
Agency in support of home-station mission, contingencies, TDY support, and combat service
support operations. Support is normally limited to 72-hours.
Uneconomically Reparable—A vehicle or piece of equipment whose one-time repair estimate
exceeds the one-time repair allowance, or whose age or mileage life expectancy has been
attained. (Reference TO 36-1-191).
Using Command—The command that programs replacement for the vehicles assigned to a
particular account. The ―Using MAJCOM is the true owner of the vehicle assets.
Vehicle Abuse—Damage caused by neglect or willful acts of improper operation or care.
Vehicle Control Program (VCP)—The management control functions established for those
base activities with assigned vehicles on recurring dispatch.
Vehicle Fleet Manager (VFM) and Vehicle Management Superintendent (VMS)—2T3XX
individuals charged with managing the Vehicle Management activity.
Vehicle Operations Fleet— Vehicles assigned to provide transportations services for temporary
use by other organizations.
Work Order—A specific or blanket authorization to perform certain work.
TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013                           13


                                  Attachment 2
                 PAYMENT AUTHORIZATION MEMO (SAMPLE)

Figure A2.1. Payment Authorization Memo (Sample)
 14                                               TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013


                                   Attachment 3
                   REQUEST FOR RELEASE MEMO (SAMPLE)

Figure A3.1. Request for Release Memo (Sample)
TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013                                     15


                                    Attachment 4
         VEHICLE ACCIDENT/ABUSE NOTIFICATION MEMO (SAMPLE)

Figure A4.1. Vehicle Accident/Abuse Notification Memo (Sample)
 16                                                TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013


                                    Attachment 5
 ORGANIZATION ACCIDENT/ABUSE RELEASE FOR REPAIRS MEMO (SAMPLE)

Figure A5.1. Organization Accident/Abuse Release for Repairs Memo (Sample)
TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013                                                                              17


                                             Attachment 6
                     GMV REQUEST FOR TRANSPORTATION (SAMPLE)

Figure A6.1. GMV Request for Transportation (Sample)
                                   REQUEST FOR TRANSPORTATION

  72 LRS/LGRDD       Tinker AFB    Comm: (405)734-2803/2941 DSN: 884-2803/2941 Fax: (405)733-0867
       Request will be e-mailed to the Vehicle Operations Manager: David.Derrick.ctr@tinker.af.mil
                            and ALTERNATE: Vicki.Hoppes.ctr@tinker.af.mil
             We appreciate your comments: Please utilize the email addresses above as well as
 michael.carocci@tinker.af.mil to forward any questions or concerns you may have on this form, the overall
                             process or to address any Customer Complaints.
   Requests must be submitted 72 HOURS in advance of the required date to confirm vehicle availability.
          Units will route the request through the Vehicle Control Officer(s) (VCOs) for approval.
         ENSURE THE DRIVER(S) BRING THE PROPER CIVILIAN AND/OR GMV LICENSE
                            TO OPERATE THE REQUESTED VEHICLE(S)
NAME/GRADE/ UNIT/OFFICE SYMBOL                                                   PHONE/EXTENSION:



DATE:                   POC NAME & NUMBER                                        DATE AND TIME
(DD/MMM/YY)                                                                      REQUIRED:



TYPE OF SUPPORT         TYPE OF CARGO: (LBS)                                     RETURN DATE/TIME:
DESIRED

Vehicle w/Operator
                                                                                 NUMBER OF
                                                                                 PASSENGERS:
U-Drive-It Vehicle


Exceed POD & Trip
Kit



TYPE OF VEHICLE (S) DESIRED:

PICK UP LOCATION                                   DESTINATION



CATEGORY 1             CATEGORY 2        CATEGORY 3         CATEGORY 4           CATEGORY 5
 18                                                                    TINKERAFBI24-302 14 MAY 2013


DV/VIP Protocol           Used to            Used to transport    Used to transport         Other
Support                   transport          personnel and or     personnel and or
                          personnel and      cargo from           cargo from Tinker         Used to transport cargo
                          or cargo on        Tinker AFB to        AFB to an area that
                          Tinker AFB         the local            exceeds the
                                             community            Permissible
                                                                  Operating Distance
                                                                  (POD)

General Instructions:

     The Functional Director/Functional Commander (FD/FC) must approve all requests that exceed the Permissible
Operating Distance. This policy extends to units with vehicles permanently assigned; certain units are exempt from
this requirement and should consult the POD policy letter.
    Requests for Morale, Welfare, Recreation (MWR) and family service center program support must be routed
through the 72 ABW/FSS office for approval.
    Requests for invited civilian organizations and community service programs must be routed through the Public
Affairs Officer for approval.
    Request must include ALL pertinent information needed to validate official use of the government
vehicle.
    For requests to support conferences or special events, an itinerary will be attached.
    Further guidance for official authorization of this request can be found in AFI24-301, Chapter 3 and
Attachments 8 & 9
Authorized Purpose and Justification:




Special Instructions i.e. operator uniform requirement, size of cargo/equipment, etc.:




                                     FOR TRANSPORTATION USE ONLY

CONFIRMATION NUMBER:                                    DATE                                TRIP KIT #



NAME AND GRADE OF APPROVING                             SIGNATURE OF APPROVING OFFICIAL: POD Only
OFFICIAL:
