BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                         90-1701

                                                                             28 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                             Special Management

                                                               FACILITY INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                   ENERGY MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 72 ABW/CEPE                                                        Certified by: 72 ABW/CE
                                                                        (Mr. Thomas M. Griffith)
Supersedes:    OC-ALC-TAFB Regulation                                                     Pages: 8
               18-2, 28 August 1989


This instruction is new in its entirety and should be completely reviewed.

This instruction establishes policies and procedures for the management of all water and energies
used by Tinker AFB and auxiliary locations. The program encompasses all facilities and
systems that consume water and fossil fuels or electricity, and the program pertains to all
military, industrial, commercial, and residential users on Tinker AFB and its auxiliary locations.
Implements AFPD 90-17, Energy Management; AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to U.S. Air
Force Installations; AFI 90-1701, Energy Management; Energy Policy Act of 2005; Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007; Executive Order (EO) 13423, Strengthening Federal
Environmental, Energy, and Transportation Management; EO 13514, Federal Leadership in
Environmental, Energy, and Economic Performance and the Air Force Infrastructure Energy
Plan 2010. This instruction applies to all activities assigned or attached to Tinker Air Force
Base. It applies to Air Forces Reserve and Air National Guard units, except where noted other
wise. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Forms 847s form to publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
 2                                                  TINKERAFBI90-1701 28 OCTOBER 2011


1. GENERAL POLICY. Commanders and executive officers shall promote and accomplish
every reasonable action required to achieve Federal, United States Air Force, Air Force Materiel
Command (AFMC) and Tinker AFB energy and water conservation policies, goals and
objectives. Reasonable actions shall enhance military readiness, safety and effectiveness and
reduce negative impacts on the environment.
     1.1. The AFMC, Air Force and Department of Defense energy conservation goals are a 30%
     reduction of facility energy use by FY2015, compared to an FY2003 baseline energy
     consumption, along with the development and implementation of a program with the intent
     of increasing renewable energy consumption with a goal of 7.5% of all energy coming from
     renewable sources.
     1.2. The Government water conservation goal is to reduce water consumption by 26% from
     an FY2007 baseline by FY2020 (2% per annum). Water reduction goals are mandated by
     EO 13514.
     1.3. Tinker AFB has established Energy Conservation as a Breakthrough Performance Area
     (BPA) and in doing so has established “stretch” goals that exceed the Federal mandates.
     Tinker’s goal is to reduce energy consumption by 50% and water consumption by 65% by
     FY2016 based on an FY2010 consumption baseline.
2. ESG ORGANIZATION. The chairperson for the Energy Steering Group (ESG) is the 72
ABW/CC or their designee. This group will meet regularly in conjunction with the Facilities
Board; additional meetings may be held at the discretion of the chairperson. The group will
coordinate all energy matters at Tinker AFB, as set forth in AFPD 90-17.
     2.1. The ESG shall consist of members of the Facilities Board. 72 ABW/CEPE, Base
     Energy Manager, will act as facilitator of the ESG.
     2.2. Except for official absence, attendance at scheduled meetings is mandatory. Alternates
     shall attend in the absence of the primary members.
3. ESG ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The ESG shall develop plans to support or
supplement Air Force and MAJCOM goals, strategies and their execution. The ESG shall be
briefed as to the current status of goals and objectives during quarterly meetings.
     3.1. 72 ABW/CC, AIR BASE WING COMMANDER (or DESIGNEE). Convene and chair
     the ESG meeting.
     3.2. 72 ABW/CEPE, BASE ENERGY MANAGER. Responsible for the Air Force Energy
     Reporting System (AFERS). AFERS includes total British Thermal Units (BTUs) per
     thousand square foot for the base consumption of electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, and
     thousand gallons per thousand square foot for water. Facilitate ESG meeting. Report utility
     rate changes to MAJCOM within one week of notification. Calculate reimbursable utility
     rates yearly and report to MAJCOM by 1 Jan of each year. The Base Energy Manager also
     serves and accomplishes the duties of the Civil Engineer Energy Manager as specified in AFI
     32-1061.
     3.3. ESG MEMBERS. Facility Board members will also act as the representative members
     for the ESG and retain similar rights and privileges therein. ESG members may designate an
     alternate representative to attend, if needed. Members must represent their organization’s
     energy concerns, be prepared to present for discussion their organization’s energy initiatives
TINKERAFBI90-1701 28 OCTOBER 2011                                                             3


  and also act as a conduit to their organization on energy matters discussed at the ESG
  meeting.
  3.4. 72 ABW/PA, PUBLIC AFFAIRS REPRESENTATIVE. Provide opportunities for a
  public awareness program consisting of Tinker Take Off articles on energy conservation tips
  and progress toward goals and other applicable information means. Energy awareness month
  shall be October with the main focus being public awareness to change the culture to one that
  supports energy efficiency in all aspects of the work environment.
  3.5. OC-ALC/PK, CONTRACTING REPRESENTATIVE. The representative will educate
  him/herself and the Energy Steering Group on Energy Savings Contracting and will work
  with the Base Civil Engineer and the budget representatives to help them implement energy
  saving projects at Tinker AFB when requested.
  3.6. FACILITIES BOARD RECORDER. Summarize the ESG meeting in the Facilities
  Board minutes and maintain and dispose of records according to Air Force Records
  Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
4. GENERAL ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
  4.1. WING/GROUP/DIRECTORATE LEVEL COMMANDERS/SUPERVISORS. Appoint
  energy monitors to work within organizations to implement base energy policies and
  coordinate with base energy management staff. Validate exemptions to base policy and
  ensure compliance with energy directives within individual units. File energy monitor
  appointment letter with base energy manager.
  4.2. SQUADRON/DIVISION LEVEL COMMANDERS AND SUPERVISORS. Validate
  compliance with energy policies and initiatives within their units.
     4.2.1. Commanders/supervisors (squadron/division or higher) will make unit level
     determination of use and recommend approval of personal space heaters within a facility
     and will submit the request for the use of personal space heaters in writing to the Base
     Energy Manager who retains ultimate approval authority IAW AFOSH STD 91-501, Air
     Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard. Supervisors will ensure that all non-
     approved space heaters are removed.
     4.2.2. Space heaters shall not be utilized to supplement existing climate control. Facility
     managers shall contact 72 ABW/CE Customer Service (734-3117) to address
     unsatisfactory climate control issues.
     4.2.3. Supervisors will ensure that personal refrigerators, coffee makers and microwaves
     are consolidated into community break areas where possible.
     4.2.4. Supervisors will review procedures within a unit to turn off unnecessary interior
     and exterior lighting that may be left on at the end of shift, except those required for
     safety and security requirements. Supervisors need to evaluate work schedules to shift
     the maximum number of personnel and workload out of the 1400-1900 time period
     whenever possible, during the months of April through September. When possible,
     schedule tasks or equipment operations requiring heavy electrical usage before 1400
     during these months, when summer energy costs are at peak. Units shall make all
     reasonable, cost effective efforts to reduce energy and water use.
 4                                                   TINKERAFBI90-1701 28 OCTOBER 2011


     4.3. SUPERVISORS (ALL LEVELS). Will check work areas periodically to ensure
     lighting, appliances and other equipment are being turned off when not required to be in use.
     Help develop individuals to become good stewards in energy conversation. Promote the
     submission of good ideas to base energy managers via idea email (energy@tinker.af.mil).
     Implement innovations in duty section to conserve energy.
     4.4. FACILITY MANAGERS. Complete facility energy conservation checklist quarterly, as
     a minimum. An example checklist can be found at the Tinker Energy Team website
     (https://wwwmil.tinker.af.mil/tet/index.asp).
        4.4.1. Remove non-energy efficient appliances (such as old refrigerators).
NOTE: The remainder of this paragraph contains recommendations for which Facility Managers
should make reasonable efforts to ensure energy conservation within their facilities. It is
understood that CE work orders, service calls (direct scheduled work) or even projects may be
required to resolve some issues.
        4.4.2. Report inoperable photocells and timers on exterior lighting and cracks and air
        leaks in the building exterior (walls, windows, doors and frames) to 72 ABW/CE Work
        Control desk (734-3117) for repair.
        4.4.3. Ensure lighting fixtures are clean and well maintained. Ensure LED (Light
        Emitting Diode) exit signs are installed (in place of incandescent signs).
        4.4.4. Check to ensure facility utilizes low-flow faucets and toilets and notify CE if
        fixtures need to be replaced. Ensure the visible water system is free of drips or leaks.
        4.4.5. Ensure that unnecessary loads are turned off (i.e., display lighting).
        4.4.6. Ensure heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) ventilation grilles are
        free from obstructions (books, flowers, debris, etc.). Notify CE if visible air filters need
        replacement. Ensure portable electric heaters are not being utilized as per paragraph 4.2.
        Ensure air diffusers and registers are clean. If work areas contain locally adjustable
        thermostats, adjust temperature set-points on heating and air conditioning systems to
        comply with requirements herein.
     4.5. INDIVIDUALS. Pay special attention to energy conservation items daily. Turn off
     unused equipment and lighting at the end of the duty day. Turn off unused equipment during
     the duty day when not in use, including:
        4.5.1. Stand alone printers, scanners and other computer peripherals
        4.5.2. Computer monitors
        4.5.3. Other personal appliances (i.e., coffee pots, radios, etc.)
     4.6. Ensure lights are turned off in unoccupied areas during the day, including individual
     offices when leaving for more than 5 minutes. Where possible, utilize daylight from
     windows and available task lighting to reduce need for overhead lighting. Reduce use of
     personally procured appliances in government offices (radios, CD/tape players, fans, etc.).
     Turn them off when not in use and never leave devices on at the end of duty day. When
     possible, schedule processes that use a large amount of electric energy to be performed
     during off-peak periods (before 1400 or after 1900). When copying large quantities, try to
TINKERAFBI90-1701 28 OCTOBER 2011                                                               5


   utilize copiers during off-peak time periods to limit on-peak (1400 - 1900) usage. When
   appropriate, turn off copiers when not in use.
   4.7. 72 ABW/CECE, ENGINEERING. Evaluate proposed energy projects and provide
   information on energy conservation construction projects.
   4.8. 72 ABW/CER, RESOURCES DIVISION. Pay the utility bills for the base as promptly
   as practical and ensure reimbursable customers are billed appropriately and timely. Perform
   annual reviews on purchased utility contracts. Review utility contracts and sales agreements
   to ensure records are current and accurate.
   4.9. 72 ABW/CECO, CIVIL ENGINEERING OPERATIONS. Operate the Energy
   Management Control Systems (EMCS). EMCS is a computerized monitor and control
   system used to manipulate Heating Ventilating and Air Conditioning (HVAC) in a facility to
   save energy and energy dollars. Civil Engineering Operations shall, through the use of these
   EMCS systems, carry out the control strategies set forth in this document. Also, maintain
   and read utility meters installed throughout the base to ensure proper billing and to obtain
   data for energy usage analyses.
   4.10. TENANT UNIT CIVIL ENGINEERING ORGANIZATIONS. In order to provide
   flexibility to specific and often unscheduled mission requirements, units with internal Civil
   Engineering organizations (i.e. 552 ACW, 507 ARW, Navy CSCW-1) may manage their
   own energy settings where the control infrastructure allows. All set-points and set-backs
   must comply with policy herein unless temporarily modified per mission requirements.
   Permission for local control authority will be obtained from the Base Energy Manager. All
   costs associated with providing control capabilities shall be borne by the tenant organization.
5. UTILITY CONSERVATION POLICY AND EXCEPTIONS. The following policy
(paragraphs 7 through 14) shall be implemented in managing energy resources at Tinker AFB.
Exceptions to this policy include, but are not limited to the protection and operation of
computers, communications, medical operations, test measurement and diagnostic equipment
(TMDE) and other laboratories and all areas requiring special climate considerations through
Engineering Technical Letter (ETL) or Technical Order (TO). It is understood that CE will be
responsible for setting set-points and set-backs on all systems controlled by CE. Systems
controlled by local thermostat or where control has been delegated to CE organizations within
tenant units shall be controlled by that unit and must comply with the requirements herein.
6. UTILITY SERVICE CONTINGENCY. 72 ABW/CECX, Readiness and Emergency
Management Office, will maintain contingency plans to deal with possible shortfalls of
purchased electricity and heating fuels. Plans shall be updated biannually and reviewed annually
by the ESG.
7. HEATING. Set heating system controls to the following space temperatures:
   7.1. Forty Degrees Fahrenheit (40ºF). In areas where heat is required to protect material and
   installed equipment from freezing (unoccupied areas).
   7.2. Sixty Degrees Fahrenheit (60ºF). In hangars and warehouse spaces. Set back to 50ºF
   during non-duty (unoccupied) hours.
   7.3. Sixty-five Degrees Fahrenheit (65ºF). In areas of shop spaces. Set back to 55ºF during
   non-duty (unoccupied) hours.
 6                                                  TINKERAFBI90-1701 28 OCTOBER 2011


     7.4. Sixty-eight Degrees Fahrenheit (68ºF). In administrative/classroom spaces. Set back to
     55ºF during non-duty (unoccupied) hours.
     7.5. Military family housing and unaccompanied housing residents are encouraged to
     maintain reduced temperature settings consistent with family needs. Recommended
     maximum heating temperature range is 68ºF - 72ºF.
     7.6. Areas governed under special guidance provided by ETL or TO that require special
     climate considerations are exempt from this requirement (i.e. medical facilities, paint booths,
     etc.).
8. COOLING. Cooling system controls in all facilities with refrigerated air conditioning will
be set to maintain an average space temperature of 76ºF. Operation of these systems during non-
duty hours and intermediate seasons shall be kept to a minimum and appropriate setback
temperatures determined by 72 ABW/CE shall be employed on all capable systems with the
typical setback for unoccupied spaces being 84ºF when systems and facilities allow and are
properly sized to do so. The use of circulating fans is authorized unless otherwise prohibited due
to industrial processes or work practices. Set cooling system controls to the following space
temperatures:
     8.1. Seventy-six Degrees Fahrenheit (76ºF).        All areas served by refrigerated air
     conditioning systems for climate control purposes.
     8.2. Seventy-eight Degrees Fahrenheit (78ºF).       All areas utilizing refrigerated air
     conditioning systems shall adjust to an increased temperature level during peak demand
     periods (1400hrs to 1900hrs).
     8.3. Military family housing and unaccompanied housing residents are encouraged to
     maintain temperature settings consistent with family needs. Recommended cooling
     temperature range is 72ºF - 76ºF. When using air conditioning, residents are encouraged to
     conserve energy by raising thermostats when leaving their home.
     8.4. Areas governed under special guidance provided by ETL or TO that require special
     climate considerations are exempt from this requirement (i.e. medical facilities, paint booths,
     etc.). Note: Most shop and warehouse spaces are not currently cooled with refrigerated air
     conditioning systems. Refrigerated air conditioning systems shall not be installed in these
     areas unless authorized by ETL or TO and approved by the Energy Steering Group.
9. HOT WATER. Where operationally practical, domestic hot water (not process water)
temperature controls shall be set to maintain the following hot water temperatures:
     9.1. Latrines and toilet facilities without showers or tubs: the actual measured temperature
     of hot water delivered to the user shall not exceed 105ºF.
     9.2. Latrines and toilet facilities with showers or tubs: the actual measured temperature of
     hot water delivered to the user shall not exceed 110ºF.
     9.3. In buildings, such as unaccompanied enlisted quarters where there may be toilet
     facilities with and without showers or tubs where there is heavy and frequent use of bathing
     facilities and where there is a common hot water supply system, the delivered temperature of
     110ºF may be used throughout the facility.
TINKERAFBI90-1701 28 OCTOBER 2011                                                               7


   9.4. Where laundry facilities are provided, occupants shall be advised of the water
   temperature and to use cold water type detergents if washing difficulties are encountered at
   110ºF.
   9.5. New facilities and facilities undergoing major renovations shall receive not less than
   30% of their hot water requirement through solar heating (if life-cycle cost effective).
10. LIGHTS. Lighting intensities in base facilities should not exceed lighting levels for various
work areas as identified in the latest edition of the Illuminating Engineering Society (IES)
Handbook or applicable Unified Facility Guide Specification (UFGS). Areas governed under
special guidance provided by ETL or TO that require special considerations are exempt from this
requirement.
   10.1. When and where practical, turn off all lights and electrical equipment when rooms will
   be vacant for more than five minutes, including during the lunch hour. When and where
   practical, occupancy sensors shall be employed.
   10.2. All lights with the exception of safety, security and exit lights shall be shut off when
   not in use and after work hours.
11. PERSONAL COMPUTER SYSTEMS (PCs). All PCs shall be operated in accordance
with applicable organization instructions and regulations. All PCs shall be Energy Star
Compliant and capable of hibernation.
12. CONTROL PROGRAM. The objective of an Energy Management Program is to lower
utility costs and energy/water consumption and to encourage sound conservation practices.
Where practical, energy management control systems shall be installed and used in all new
renovation and construction and coordinated with the base energy manager. Changes to the
temperature limits identified in this instruction in non-ETL/TO governed facilities or dictated by
mission requirements shall require approval by the Energy Steering Group with a written request
presented to the Energy Steering Working Group for consideration.
13. WATER CONSERVATION. The Base Civil Engineer directs the water conservation
program.     The water management program strives to eliminate water waste through
implementation of the Federal Water Efficiency Best Management Practices (BMPs). The
program will achieve this goal through awareness and training efforts across the base and in
military family housing, renovation and retrofit programs.
14. GENERAL ENERGY CONSERVATION. New construction and major renovation of
installation buildings shall comply with the Guiding Principles for Federal Leadership in High
Performance and Sustainable Buildings set forth in the Federal Leadership in High Performance
and Sustainable Buildings Memorandum of Understanding (EO 13423). Employ energy
conserving technologies and measures where appropriate.




                                             ROBERT D. LABRUTTA, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
 8                                                TINKERAFBI90-1701 28 OCTOBER 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 90-17, Energy Management, 16 July 2009
AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to U.S. Air Force Installations, 23 February 2011
AFI 90-1701, Energy Management; Energy Policy Act of 2005, 16 July 2009
AFOSH STD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, 7 July 2004
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
