BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                          36-819

                                                                            29 SEPTEMBER 2010

                                                                                          Personnel

                                                           OC-ALC INTERMEDIATE LEADER
                                                                DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: OC-ALC/DP                                                          Certified by: OC-ALC/DP
                                                                      (Mr. William T. Swigert, Jr.)
                                                                                         Pages: 9


This instruction defines responsibilities and establishes procedures for managing the OC-ALC
Intermediate Leader Development Program (ILDP). This is a new publication and should be
reviewed in its entirety. All records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (this number will
convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/ Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force Information Management Tool (AF
IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s through the
appropriate chain of command to OC-ALC/DP. This publication may be supplemented at any
level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination
prior to certification and approval.

1. Introduction. This Tinker Air Force Base (TAFB) instruction establishes the Oklahoma City
Air Logistics Center (OC-ALC) Intermediate Leader Development Program (ILDP) and
describes procedures for execution. It is applicable to all OC-ALC, Supply Chain Management
Wing (SCMW), and Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) civilian employees. The Intermediate
Leader Development Program was established to build future leaders and develop the workforce.
ILDP is a local process in which a ―development panel‖ provides oversight for employee
developmental opportunities and possible career-broadening assignments. Employees at the
General Schedule (GS) -12, 13, and 14 level and Wage Supervisors (WS) -16-19 in civilian
positions are eligible to apply annually. ILDP follows established merit procedures in selecting
 2                                                  TINKER AFBI36-819 29 SEPTEMBER 2010


employees for training or local developmental assignments that may serve to enhance
advancement opportunities.
2. Program Overview/Purpose.
     2.1. ILDP is a cross-functional, cross-organizational management tool and provides a
     process for senior management to identify local career broadening assignments and offer
     developmental opportunities. It will not compete with existing functional development
     activities.
     2.2. ILDP provides a developmental program for high-potential employees to increase their
     understanding of the mission, organization and requirements of Air Force leadership and
     TAFB objectives. Successful execution of ILDP will systematically grow professional
     competencies through deliberate planning and management of employees’ experience and
     training.
     2.3. ILDP enhances/broadens an employee’s skill base through local career broadening
     assignments.
     2.4. ILDP follows the TAFB Affirmative Action Plan and does not discriminate for or
     against any employee on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age,
     handicapping condition, marital status, or political affiliation.
3. Rules of Engagement.
     3.1. Participation in the ILDP is voluntary.
     3.2. Employees at the GS-12, 13, and 14 level and WS-16-19 in civilian positions are
     eligible to apply.
     3.3. An annual call will be issued to all eligible employees to self-nominate by submitting
     their Individual Development Plan (IDPs) to the OC-ALC/DPD ILDP Program Manager.
     3.4. Employees self-nominate annually by completing the appropriate IDP.
     3.5. Participation in ILDP does not prevent individuals from pursuing other opportunities.
     3.6. ILDP panel membership consists of one senior representative (military O-6 or civilian
     GS-15 level or higher) assigned from: OC-ALC/CA, 72 ABW/CV, 76 MXW/DV, OC-
     ALC/GK, OC-ALC/EN, OC-ALC/PK, OC-ALC/DP, OC-ALC/FM, OC-ALC/XP, OC-
     ALC/CS, 448 SCMW/CL, and DLA OKC-D. Chair will be OC-ALC/CA.
     3.7. ILDP panel member meetings and Pre-ILDP working group meetings will be held
     quarterly or as needed (Ref: Para. 4.6 - Intermediate Leader Development Program Panel
     Member Responsibilities).
     3.8. Local career broadening assignments are available to those individuals who have chosen
     to remain Tinker assets but are willing to career broaden to other functions within the Center,
     Supply Chain Management Wing (SCMW), and Defense Logistics Agency (DLA)
     organizations at Tinker AFB. It is important to remember that employees being career
     broadened may not have a high experience level in the area they are moving to, but are
     individuals who have demonstrated self-initiative, successful performance and leadership
     competencies.
TINKER AFBI36-819 29 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                          3


     3.8.1. Local career broadening assignments (i.e., vacancy fill reassignments and job
     swaps) will be looked at collectively by development panel members on a quarterly basis.
     3.8.2. Local career broadening reassignments may also be accomplished out-of-cycle
     (rather than waiting for the quarterly panel member meetings).Panel members will have
     visibility of all submitted packages and can discuss potential reassignments via email.
     3.8.3. Individuals must meet the following local career broadening criteria to be selected
     for a local career broadening assignment:
        3.8.3.1. Two years in current position. Optimum time in current position before a
        career-broadening assignment for ILDP participants is two years; however, time
        requirements are a general guideline and candidates with less than two years may be
        considered if in the best interest of the organization’s mission and individual’s
        development. (Panel members must provide justification if an individual selected for
        career broadening does not meet the stated criteria.)
        3.8.3.2. GS-12 (and WS equivalents): must complete Professional Military Education
        (PME) or Master’s Program (one or the other).
        3.8.3.3. GS-13 thru 14 (and WS equivalents): must complete one (PME or Master’s)
        and be enrolled in the other (PME or Master’s) with demonstrated progress as
        follows:
            3.8.3.3.1. Air Command & Staff College (ACSC) – completed 2 of 7 courses.
            3.8.3.3.2. Air War College (AWC) – completed 2 of 6 courses.
            3.8.3.3.3. Master’s – completed 12 hrs of a 36 hour program.
     3.8.4. Local career broadening assignments will be in one of the four major areas:
     Program Management, Maintenance, Home/Staff Office and Supply Chain Management.
     3.8.5. Local assignments/reassignments are made consistent with mission needs, and to
     the extent possible, compatible with employees’ career plans.
     3.8.6. Local career broadening moves are permanent lateral moves.
     3.8.7. Employee retains right of refusal to decline the local career broadening
     assignment. If employee declines, employee will be removed from the career broadening
     pool for the remainder of the ILDP annual cycle but may still participate in the
     developmental opportunities. Employee may reapply to the program the following year.
     3.8.8. Panel members and/or supervisors may hold interviews with local career
     broadening candidates prior to agreeing to any moves.
     3.8.9. Local career broadening employees will sign a standard agreement/statement after
     accepting a local career-broadening position to ensure they fully understand moves are
     permanent.
     3.8.10. Tentative effective dates of reassignment will be determined on an individual
     basis by the losing and gaining organizations and facilitated by the panel member from
     the gaining organization as applicable. Final approval and effective date will be
     established by local AFPC/DPIDO.
 4                                                 TINKER AFBI36-819 29 SEPTEMBER 2010


        3.8.11. Personnel actions regarding local career broadening assignments must comply
        with all legal and regulatory requirements.
     3.9. All employees (including those who do not meet the local career broadening criteria) are
     considered for ILDP developmental opportunities.
4. Roles and Responsibilities.
     4.1. OC-ALC/DPD Responsibilities.
        4.1.1. Initiate the annual call for Intermediate Leader Development Program package
        submissions (package includes IDP, career brief and Rating Worksheet).
        4.1.2. Provide oversight and program management of the ILDP local career broadening
        assignments and developmental opportunities as required.
        4.1.3. Facilitate and attend ILDP panel meetings and Pre-ILDP working group meetings.
        4.1.4. Send panel members a list of qualified individuals for each vacancy fill and/or job
        swap being considered as necessary.
        4.1.5. Verify required Requests for Personnel Action (RPA) are submitted to accomplish
        required personnel actions.
        4.1.6. Provide external career broadeners’ resumes and career briefs to panel members as
        required.
     4.2. Local AFPC/DPIDO Responsibilities.
        4.2.1. Provide assistance in determining qualified candidates for local career broadening
        reassignments and job swaps.
        4.2.2. Attend ILDP panel meetings as an advisor to the panel.
        4.2.3. Coordinate with Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) to ensure accuracy of Tinker
        external career broader list and provide to OC-ALC/DPD as necessary.
        4.2.4. Contact external returning career broadeners nine months prior to their scheduled
        return to confirm their intent to return to Tinker AFB and request resumes.
        4.2.5. Provide returning external career broadeners’ resumes and career briefs to OC-
        ALC/DPD Program Manager as they are received.
     4.3. Employee/participant Responsibilities.
        4.3.1. Complete the IDP form and discuss career development opportunities with
        supervisor(s).
        4.3.2. Print and provide a current career brief.
        4.3.3. Submit the completed ILDP packet (IDP form and career brief) to the first-level
        supervisor for signature.
        4.3.4. Assess their individual training and education to ensure personnel records reflect
        accurate and current information. Provide copies of missing documents (awards, training
        certificates, etc.) not reflected on career brief when submitting IDP. The ILDP
        application process does not update your personnel records. Employees must follow
        established protocol to update personnel records.
TINKER AFBI36-819 29 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                            5


     4.3.5. After being accepted into the program, updates or additions to IDPs should be
     made upon completion of significant events and submitted to OC-ALC/DPD Program
     Manager via email as they occur within the annual ILDP cycle. Examples include:
     reassignment, promotion, decision to retire, completion of PME or educational degree
     program, award presentation (Figure 1 for examples of eligible awards, per AFI 36-
     1004), or change of career goals.
  4.4. First-Level Supervisor Responsibilities.
     4.4.1. Review completed ILDP packet (IDP form and current career brief) submitted by
     employees based on objective criteria (education, PME and two years in current
     position); and complete the established ILDP Rating Worksheet based on observed
     competencies.
     4.4.2. Sign ―Assessment by‖ block and add comments to the Rating Worksheet as to
     whether the employee is recommended for inclusion in the program or needs to be further
     developed within current organization.
     4.4.3. Provide feedback to the employee pertaining to recommendation.
     4.4.4. Submit the packet to the second-level supervisor.
  4.5. Second-Level Supervisor Responsibilities.
     4.5.1. Review the completed ILDP packet (IDP, career brief and Rating worksheet)
     provided by 1st level supervisor.
     4.5.2. Add endorsement/recommendation (as appropriate) to the Rating Worksheet,
     verify information is correct and accurate and certify Rating Worksheet by signing
     ―Reviewed by‖ block.
     4.5.3. Submit the reviewed package to Wing/Staff Office ILDP panel member for
     consideration.
  4.6. Panel Member Responsibilities.
     4.6.1. Represent their organization and/or functional community to the ILDP panel
     members; and provide insight from an operational/functional perspective based on
     knowledge of employees’ capabilities/potential and balance against corporate needs.
     4.6.2. Endorse only those candidates determined to possess desired leadership
     competencies and who are equipped for further center level development and career
     broadening. Endorsement for application process is as follows:
         4.6.2.1. Review employees’ IDPs, career briefs, and Rating Worksheets provided by
         second-level supervisors.
         4.6.2.2. Provide the Panel Member Assessment and Development Recommendation
         on the Rating Worksheet; and sign and date ―Signature‖ block at bottom of ILDP
         Rating Worksheet if candidate is being endorsed. (Coordinate the Development
         Recommendation with the appropriate functional manager as necessary.)
         4.6.2.3. Provide feedback to the participant (i.e., annual vectoring feedback/sessions).
6                                            TINKER AFBI36-819 29 SEPTEMBER 2010


    4.6.3. Follow merit procedures in selecting employees for training or local
    developmental assignments that may serve to enhance advancement opportunities.
    4.6.4. Identify their organization’s current and anticipated vacant positions for panel
    member assessment.
       4.6.4.1. Determine the best method to fill identified positions, (i.e., through
       management reassignment or competitive fill action).
       4.6.4.2. Upon occurrence of GS-12, 13, and 14 level and WS-16-19 vacancies,
       consider qualified employees of the same grade and position level for reassignment
       into the vacancy for individual development purposes.
       4.6.4.3. Periodically consider permanent job swap reassignments of qualified
       personnel at the same grade and position level based on time in the job and
       development needs, irrespective of vacancies.
       4.6.4.4. Take personnel movement proposals to organization commander/civilian
       leader, as applicable, and provide feedback to ILDP panel members to include
       alternate proposals.
       4.6.4.5. Panel members and/or selected ILDP organizational representative will
       submit vacancies via email on a quarterly basis as requested by OC-ALC/DPD.
       4.6.4.6. Panel members of employees being considered for local career broadening
       assignments will meet in a Pre-ILDP working group meeting to discuss and make
       recommendations for the quarterly ILDP meeting.
           4.6.4.6.1. If a panel member identifies an ILDP participant for a vacancy, the
           candidate should meet all three filters (masters degree, PME, current position for
           two years) (Ref: Para. 3.7.3 - Local Career Broadening Criteria).
           4.6.4.6.2. If a candidate does not meet all filters, the panel member needs to
           provide written justification as to why the candidate is the best choice (i.e., APDP
           certification, series, etc.)
           4.6.4.6.3. If a selection is made from the list of qualified candidates, the gaining
           panel member will coordinate with the losing organizational panel member for
           approval. If agreement is achieved by both losing and gaining panel members,
           the gaining panel member will coordinate movement with the losing panel
           member and local AFPC/DPIDO.
           4.6.4.6.4. If a selection cannot be made from the list of qualified candidates, the
           panel member may fill the position competitively outside of the ILDP process.
           4.6.4.6.5. Upon notification of a vacancy fill or management proposed
           reassignment, panel members will ensure the RPA is completed by the resource
           advisor and coordinated with OC-ALC/DPD.
           4.6.4.6.6. Upon approval of reassignment/placement by the development panel,
           the gaining panel member informs the gaining supervisor, current supervisor and
           selectee of the decision.
           4.6.4.6.7. Panel    members      will   have     employee     sign    a    standard
TINKER AFBI36-819 29 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                           7


            agreement/statement after acceptance of a local career broadening position to
            ensure employee understands the move is permanent.
            4.6.4.6.8. Tentative effective dates of reassignment will be determined on an
            individual basis by the losing and gaining organizations and facilitated by the
            panel member from the gaining organization, as applicable. Final approval and
            effective date will be established by local AFPC/DPIDO.
            4.6.4.6.9. For tracking purposes, gaining panel members and/or selected ILDP
            organizational representative will send confirmation to OC-ALC/DPD once a
            local career broadening move has been finalized.
         4.6.4.7. Resolve issues (i.e., situations where an individual has been identified for
         more than one position and/or non-concurrence with selection from losing
         organization).
     4.6.5. Provide developmental opportunities (i.e., annual vectoring, periodic job
     shadowing, etc.) to participants as requested/needed by PM.
     4.6.6. Review credentials of returning USAF career broadeners and issue local
     assignment, striving for continued broadening (i.e. preferably not back into their position
     or organization of origin).
     4.6.7. Panel members will also assist OC-ALC/CA in ranking Civilian Developmental
     Education (CDE) applicants, based on Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command/A1L
     (HQ AFMC/A1L) and/or Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) annual guidance. (Panel
     members should review and approve nomination packages for their respective
     organizational nominees prior to meeting with OC-ALC/CA.)
  4.7. Associate Unit Responsibilities. Associate units wishing to participate in ILDP will
  coordinate with OC-ALC/DPD.
  4.8. Individuals who work Organizational Workflow Responsibilities. Ensure that GS-12,
  13, and 14 level and WS-16-19 employees receive ILDP annual call and instructions for self-
  nomination per OC-ALC/DP annual guidance (Ref: Para. 4.1.1 – OC-ALC/DP will initiate
  the annual call for Individual Development Plan submissions).




                                          ROBERT D. LABRUTTA, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
 8                                            TINKER AFBI36-819 29 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-13, Civilian Supervisory, Management, and Leadership Development, 1 May 97
AFI 36-1004 - Managing The Civilian Recognition Program, 3 Dec 09
AFI 36-401 Employee Training And Development, 28 Jun 02
AFMAN 36-606, Air Force Civilian Career Program Management, 1 Dec 95
AFMC Instruction 36-201 Education and Training, 10 Jul 03
AMFC Instruction 36- 2645 Center Functional and Unit Roles and Responsibilities, 31 Mar 08
AFMC Policy Directive 36-2 Education and Training, 9 Aug 00
TAFB Instruction 36-109 Functional Management Support, 24 Jan 07
TAFB Instruction 36-302 Promotion Process Policy
DPCS Instruction 36-10 Career-broadening Endorsement Process, 24 Mar 08

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACSC— Air Command & Staff College
AFMC— Air Force Materiel Command
AFPC— Air Force Personnel Center
AWC— Air War College
CDE— Civilian Development Education
DLA— Defense Logistics Agency
FEB— Federal Executive Board
GS— General Schedule
IDP— Individual Development Plan
ILDP— Intermediate Leader Development Program
NSPS— National Security Personnel System
OC—ALC – Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center
PME— Professional Military Education
PRO— Personnel Resource Official
RPA— Request for Personnel Action
SCMW— Supply Chain Management Wing
TAFB— Tinker Air Force Base
WS— Wage Supervisor
TINKER AFBI36-819 29 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                     9


Terms
External Career Broadener— An individual participating in a special assignment consisting of
nonrecurring duties which are designed to provide specific career-broadening experience for
high-potential mid-level managers. Assignments may include long-term training, professional
military education or headquarters assignments.
Local Career-Broadener (used in ILDP)— An individual who has chosen to remain a Tinker
asset but is willing to career broaden locally to other functions within the Center, Supply Chain
Management Wing (SCMW) and Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) organizations at Tinker
AFB.
Organization— Wing/Directorate level
Associate Unit— Units based at Tinker AFB but not assigned to the OC-ALC.
NOTE: This is an example award listing that is not all inclusive. Approval level of MAJCOM
and above is annotated for the purpose of this specific instruction and the criteria of the ILDP
Rating Worksheet. Further information about awards and various approval levels can be found
in AFI 36—1004 or OC-ALC/DPL Awards website.


Table 1.1 Eligible Awards per AFI 36-1004.
Monetary Awards - (Always Posted to DCPDS)                                           Approval Level
Special Act or Service Award - 10001 to 25000                                        MAJCOM/SAF
Special Act or Service Award - Over 25000                                            MAJCOM/President

Honorary Awards*
Decoration for Exceptional Civilian Service                                          SAF
AF Civilian Award for Valor                                                          SAF
Meritorious Civilian Service Award                                                   MAJCOM
Command Civilian Award for Valor                                                     MAJCOM
Exemplary Civilian Service Award                                                     MAJCOM
AF Civilian Achievement Award                                                        MAJCOM
Letter/Certificate of Commendation                                                   MAJCOM
President's Award for Distinguished Federal Civil Service                            SAF/President
*These awards are not always posted in DCPDS. It is the employee’s responsibility to ensure career briefs
are up-to-date when submitting an IDP package. Proof of award may be submitted to OC-ALC/DPLC for
DCPDS coding.
