BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                        10-229

                                                                            29 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                     Operations

                                                     RELEASE OF PERSONNEL DUE TO
                                                HAZARDOUS WEATHER OR EMERGENCY
                                                                      CONDITIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the Air Force e-publishing website
               http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 72 ABW/XPX                                                       Certified by: 72 ABW/XP
                                                                      (Ms. Mary-Lynn Dubray)
Supersedes:   TINKERAFBI 10-229,                                                        Pages: 7
              8 March 2013


This instruction establishes the responsibilities and procedures for use in determining the most
desirable course of action when hazardous weather conditions or an emergency situation require
a change in normal operations. This instruction is applicable to all Air Force Sustainment Center
(AFSC) organizations located at Tinker AFB, OK, and implements AFPD 10-2, Readiness, AFI
10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Events, AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, AFMCI 36-
2636, Center DP Roles and Responsibilities, and DoD 1400.25-M, DoD Civilian Personnel
Manual (CPM), (subchapters 610, Hours of Duty, and 630, Leave). Associate organizations will
be advised of actions being taken by the 72d Air Base Wing Commander, (72 ABW/CC).
However, associate organization commanders will make their own decision concerning release
of their personnel. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
office of primary responsibility (OPR), 72 ABW Wartime/Contingency Plans Office (72
ABW/XPX), using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision adds provisions addressing the release of civilian personnel due to emergency
conditions which may or may not be related to weather events. Also, the “Civilian Personnel
Office Advisor to the Commander” is now assigned to 72 FSS/FSMC, Civilian Personnel
Section.
 2                                                  TINKERAFBI10-229 29 OCTOBER 2014


1. Background and Policy. The 72d Air Base Wing Commander (72 ABW/CC), (72d Air Base
Wing Vice Commander [72 ABW/CV] or 72d Mission Support Group Commander [72
MSG/CC] in the 72 ABW/CC’s absence) is the sole authority for implementing the provisions of
this instruction. The AFSC Commander (AFSC/CC), Oklahoma City Air Logistic Complex
Commander (OC-ALC/CC) and the AFSC Executive Director (AFSC/CA) will be informed of
actions being taken. In arriving at a decision to close all or part of an activity, 72 ABW/CC must
consider:
     1.1. The practice of private employers in the community.
     1.2. Liberal use of annual leave.
     1.3. Group dismissals of employees in connection with extreme weather conditions are
     authorized only in the exceptional instances where working or commuting conditions are
     unusually severe and the health of employees is endangered.
     1.4. Time required to return to a facility following an emergency event and the priority of
     the missions impacted.
2. Advisors to The Commander for Hazardous Weather or Emergency Event. To assist in
making the decision to release personnel, when circumstances permit, the Hazardous
Weather/Emergency Event Advisors may be asked to review and assess the current and
forecasted weather conditions or the emergency event and recommend an appropriate course of
action to the 72 ABW Commander. At the direction of the 72 ABW/CC, the Command Post
(CP) will notify the advisors of a meeting or convene a teleconference with all advisors and
additional personnel as requested. The activities of the advisors will be either by formal meeting
or by telephone conference, depending on the existing situation. In making this decision, the 72
ABW Commander recognizes certain persons or activities must continue to operate regardless of
weather conditions, emergency events or public announcement of employee dismissal. The
advisors to the 72 ABW Commander will keep their organization’s commander/director
informed of actions taken.           The following personnel comprise the Hazardous
Weather/Emergency Event Advisors:
     2.1. Advisors to the Commander will be:
        2.1.1. Commander, 72d Support Group (72 MSG/CC)
        2.1.2. Director, 72d Civil Engineering Directorate (72 ABW/CE)
        2.1.3. Commander, 72d Operations Support Squadron (72 OSS/CC)
            2.1.3.1. 72 OSS Weather Representative (72 OSS/OSW)
        2.1.4. Chief of Public Affairs (72 ABW/PA)
        2.1.5. Civilian Personnel Representative (72 FSS/FSMC)
        2.1.6. Commander, 72d Security Forces Squadron (72 SFS/CC)
        2.1.7. Director/commander of organization(s) impacted by the emergency event
3. Available Options for Hazardous Weather. Four courses of action are available to the 72
ABW/CC when considering administrative release from duty due to actual or potentially
hazardous weather conditions:
TINKERAFBI10-229 29 OCTOBER 2014                                                              3


   3.1. Do not administratively release personnel.
   3.2. If mission permits approve liberal leave when requested for weather considerations.
   3.3. Approve late reporting for day, swing and/or grave shifts based on current weather
   conditions.
   3.4. Approve excused absences for nonessential functions (a combination of the above
   options may be used to accommodate changing weather conditions during the shift and
   impacting the following shift or shifts).
      3.4.1. Terms relating to administrative dismissal are defined as:
          3.4.1.1. Excused Absence. An absence from duty when employees are released from
          duty because all or part of the activity is closed.
          3.4.1.2. Early Dismissal. Only employees who are in a duty status or who are
          expected to return from leave to duty status at the time of the early dismissal takes
          effect are excused without charge of leave. Employees who leave before the
          scheduled dismissal time or are already on leave that day continue to be charged
          leave. Employees who are in a telework status are not entitled to the excused absence
          and are expected to complete their normal tour of duty or request leave.
          3.4.1.3. Late Reporting. Depending on hazardous weather conditions, tardiness not
          in excess of two hours may be excused as designated by the 72 ABW/CC. Tardiness
          in excess of two hours may also be excused because of unavoidable delays resulting
          from adverse weather. These individual cases will be personally reviewed by the
          employee’s supervisors. In the case of employees who do not report for duty during
          hazardous weather, employee must request unscheduled leave and will be charged for
          the full day.
          3.4.1.4. Base Closure. Workdays on which federal activities are closed are non-
          workdays for leave purposes. All regular employees, except those required to
          perform weather essential or other mission essential duties, are excused without
          charge to leave. This includes those on scheduled annual or sick leave, but not those
          in a non-pay status on the days immediately before and after the day(s) the activity
          was closed. Closure may be for less than an eight hour period, for example, “Base
          closed until 10:00 am, employees should report by 10:00 am or request leave”.
              3.4.1.4.1. Weather Essential. In cases of snow, ice or other natural emergencies,
              employees on designated positions will remain on duty or report for duty
              (Reference Para 4.7.1, 4.7.2, and 7).
4. Responsibilities. When hazardous weather conditions or an emergency situation occur
during normal duty hours, the following procedures will be implemented:
   4.1. 72 ABW/CC will:
      4.1.1. Evaluate weather data received by the Command Post (CP) and/or Base Weather
      and form the Hazardous Weather/Emergency Event Advisors if required.
      4.1.2. Continue to evaluate weather data to ensure internal procedures are implemented
      to meet existing or potential weather conditions; for example, snow removal, sanding,
      etc.
4                                                  TINKERAFBI10-229 29 OCTOBER 2014


       4.1.3. Evaluate the emergency event with the advice of 72 ABW/CE on the impact of the
       event on facilities and expected time required before area can be reoccupied. Details on
       mission impact will be provided by the director/commander of organizations impacted.
       4.1.4. Perform other administrative details as may be necessary to carry out this program.
       4.1.5. Inform the AFSC and OC-ALC Commanders and AFSC/CA of actions being
       taken.
       4.1.6. Notify associate organizations and local union of weather related decisions and
       actions being taken.
       4.1.7. Disseminate announcements via:
           4.1.7.1. Public Affairs Office (72 ABW/PA) (See Paragraph 4.5).
           4.1.7.2. “All Tinker Personnel” email via the 72 ABW Communications Directorate
           (72 ABW/SC).
           4.1.7.3. CP utilizing quick reaction checklist to disseminate via the Tinker
           Installation Notification and Warning System (INSW) which includes AtHoc and
           Giant Voice.
    4.2. CP will:
       4.2.1. Maintain weather surveillance through the Joint Environmental Toolkit (JET), via
       information passed by the 72d Operations Support Squadron over the secondary crash
       phone, or via a phone call directly from the 72d Operations Support Squadron Weather
       Flight.
       4.2.2. Notify key personnel of hazardous weather IAW TAFBI 15-101. At direction of
       the 72 ABW/CC, notify advisors of a formal meeting or convene a
       teleconference. Disseminate 72 ABW/CC directed actions to all units and Installation
       personnel via the Tinker INWS (includes AtHoc and Giant Voice).
       4.2.3. Complete any higher headquarters reporting IAW AFI 10-206.
    4.3. 72 MSG/CC will: Consult with other advisors, as required. Advise the 72 ABW/CC on
    appropriate course of action.
    4.4. 72 FSS/FSMC will: Be prepared to advise the 72 ABW/CC on the courses of action
    reflected in Section 3 and administrative procedures required for implementation including
    leave, late reporting and excused absence implications as outlined in appropriate personnel
    regulations, instructions and manuals.
    4.5. 72 ABW/PA will:
       4.5.1. Provide PA counsel to 72 ABW/CC regarding potential internal and external
       impacts of proposed actions.
       4.5.2. Prepare and distribute 72 ABW/CC approved announcements on Installation
       Commander directed changes in base operating status. (Ensure announcements include
       work shift (day, swing, grave) impacted)
       4.5.3. Updated all media outlets using the automated “closing” tool maintained by
       KFOR-TV. 4.5.3.1. PA will maintain a contact listing of area radio and television
TINKERAFBI10-229 29 OCTOBER 2014                                                                5


      outlets to ensure rapid and accurate dissemination of non-weather related emergency
      announcements.
      4.5.4. Update the Straight Talk Line at 734-1900 and all other designated methods of
      information delivery, including Tinker social media sites (FaceBook and Twitter).
      4.5.5. Prepare 72 ABW/CC and/or appropriate Tinker leadership to conduct press
      conferences, when needed.
   4.6. 72 OSS/CC will: Direct 72 OSS/OSW to provide weather briefings to the 72 ABW/CC,
   as required.
   4.7. Commanders, directors, and staff agency heads will:
      4.7.1. Designate in advance “weather essential” positions and activities that will be
      manned and operated under all weather conditions for reasons of health, safety or
      national security.
      4.7.2. Notify in writing (post to AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief) those
      “weather essential” personnel whose services are required regardless of weather
      conditions or the dismissal of other employees. This will be included in the employee’s
      Performance Plan and should be covered in their annual review.
      4.7.3. Assume responsibility for further dissemination of information regarding base
      operations down through the lowest level of their organization. TAFB Plan 10-205,
      Alert/Notification, procedures can be used.
   4.8. Advisors to the 72 ABW/CC will:           Keep their director/commander informed of
   decisions.
5. When a hazardous weather situation occurs on other than day shift, the following
procedures will be implemented:
   5.1. The 72 ABW/CC will evaluate weather data received by the CP and from other sources
   to determine the appropriate action to take. The Hazardous Weather Advisors may also be
   contacted for input.
   5.2. The CP, upon notification from the 72 ABW/CC, will notify Tinker
   commanders/directors of all decisions that result in personnel being excused from work.
   5.3. 72 ABW/PA will, upon notification from the 72 ABW/CC on the course of action to be
   taken, prepare and release the appropriate announcement. If reporting times are affected, the
   announcement will specifically include the phrase “except for weather essential personnel as
   appropriate.”
6. Isolated Emergency Events:
   6.1. The procedures in this section are applicable to events of short duration, typically 24 to
   48 hours. In situations where the event is expected to last longer, the organization’s
   Continuity of Operations Plan(s) (COOP) will be considered for implementation IAW AFSC
   Plan 10-208. When a specific isolated emergency occurs (fire, building flooding, explosion,
   loss of power, etc.), the supervisor of the affected area must immediately notify the building
   manager, director/commander, division, staff office and/or unit chief, or chain of command.
 6                                                    TINKERAFBI10-229 29 OCTOBER 2014


     6.2. The organization’s director/commander and/or two-letter chief will contact the CP who
     will, in turn, notify the 72 ABW/CC. The 72 ABW/CC will evaluate data related to the event
     and convene the required Hazardous Weather/Emergency Event Advisors if appropriate (72
     MSG/CC, AFSC/CA, 72ABW/CE, 72 ABW/PA, 72 FSS/FSMC and impacted
     commander/director[s]).
     6.3. Organizations impacted by the event will make maximum use of workforce relocations,
     alternate work sites or offices, including telework, to maintain operations prior to requesting
     administrative dismissal. Organizations should ensure internal processes are in place to
     execute these types of actions if necessary.
     6.4. In the event the use of relocations and/or alternate work sites is unable to prevent
     personnel from remaining in the affected area, 72 ABW/CC may authorize one of the
     following options. NOTE: Organizations do not have the discretionary authority to
     implement any of the following options or any procedure which excuses personnel from duty
     without charge to leave unless approved by 72 ABW/CC under the provisions of this section.
     Supervisors may approve individual requests for leave on a case-by-case basis.
        6.4.1. Approve liberal leave when requested for personnel impacted by the event.
        6.4.2. Early/Administrative Dismissal. Only employees who are in a duty status or who
        are expected to return from leave to duty status at the time the early dismissal (i.e.,
        prearranged medical appointment) takes effect are excused without charge of leave.
        Employees who leave before the scheduled dismissal time or are absent on leave that day
        continue to be charged leave. Employees who are in a telework status are not entitled to
        the excused absence and are expected to complete their normal tour of duty or request
        leave.
     6.5. Notification process related to administrative dismissal under this section will adhere to
     the procedures outlined in this instruction.
7. Annual Notification. Annually, the Center Personnel Section (72 FSS/FSMC) will
publicize, to all base personnel, written procedures that indicate the means of employee
notification and reiterate early release and late arrival practices, including policies for approving
absences. Additionally, 72 FSS/FSMC will notify the local union when the annual notification is
accomplished. Each organization (as appropriate) will also establish a program for identification
and notification of “weather essential” personnel IAW applicable personnel regulations and labor
agreements. 72 FSS/FSMC will provide additional guidance in the establishment of such
programs.
8. Coordination. 72 ABW/CC will communicate the decision regarding release of employees
due to hazardous weather or emergency events to the Chairperson, Federal Executive Board, and
Director, Federal Aviation Administration Center.




                                              CHRISTOPHER P. AZZANO, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
TINKERAFBI10-229 29 OCTOBER 2014                                                             7


                                       Attachment 1
         GL0SSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness
AFI 10-206, Operational Reports
AFI 10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Events
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave
AFMCI 36-2636, Center DP Roles and Responsibilities
DoD 1400.25-M, DoD Civilian Personnel Manual (CMP), (subchapters 610, Hours of Duty, and
630, Leave)
TAFBI 15-101, Weather Support Document
TAFB Plan 10-205, Alert/Notification
AFSC Plan 10-208, Continuity of Operations (COOP)
Oklahoma Federal Executive Board Emergency Communications Plan for Hazardous Weather
Coordination, Clean Air Alert Policy and Possible Work Disruptions For Federal Agencies in
Oklahoma
Adopted Forms
AF Form 971, Supervisor’s Employee Brief
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
72 ABW—72d Air Base Wing
AFSC—Air Force Sustainment Center
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
COOP—Continuity of Operations Plan
CP—Command Post
INSW—Installation Notification and Warning System
OI—Operation Instruction
OC—ALC – Oklahoma City Air Logistics Complex
TAFB—Tinker Air Force Base

Terms
AtHoc— Automated notification system which sends “pop-up” notices to all computers on
TAFB
