BY ORDER OF THE DIRECTOR                                                    TINKER AIR FORCE BASE
OKLAHOMA CITY AIR LOGISTICS CENTER                                              INSTRUCTION 21-409
TINKER AIR FORCE BASIC                                                             20 SEPTEMBER 2007
                                                                            Certified Current 8 May 2013
                                                                                            Maintenance

                                                                    PRESCIOUS METALS RECOVERY
                                                                               PROGRAM (PMRP)



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.epublishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 948 CBSG                                             Certified by: 448 CSW/OMX (Robert Candler)
Supersedes TinkerAFB Instruction 21-409,                                                  Pages: 13
           1 July 2000

Purpose. This Tinker instruction implements AFMAN 23-110, Volume VI, Chapter 4, and establishes
local responsibilities for identifying, handling, and safeguarding inventory assets, materials, film, scrap,
and residue containing precious metals during procurement, storage, and disposal. It is applicable to all
OC-ALC activities including the USAF Reserve, except the U.S. Navy.Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance AFMAN 37-123 (will
convert of AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision realigns our local procedures to guidance offered by AFMAN 23-110, Volume VI, Chapter
4 and updates references, organizational titles and functional address symbols.


1. Background Information.
   1.1. The Precious Metal Recovery Program (PMRP) promotes conservation and recovery of metals
   such as gold, silver, platinum, and metals of the platinum family. Precious metals may be found in an
   elemental (pure) state or as a coating or alloy. The PMRP also applies to authorized internal use with
   Government Furnished Material (GFM) for new procurement or repair contracts.
   1.2. AFMC/A4SM is the Air Force and command focal point for the USAF PMRP (AFMAN 23-110
   Vol. 6).
   1.3. The Defense Logistics Agency and the Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service (DLA/
   DRMS) is the program manager accountable for administering the overall DoD PMRP (DoD
   4160.21M).
2                                                        TINKERAFBI21-409 20 SEPTEMBER 2007


    1.4. Terms.
       1.4.1. Positions of Special Trust. This position pertains to individuals who are authorized to
       receipt, issue, and harvest precious metals, to include certifying the weight annotated on the Dis-
       posal Turn-in Document (DTID) for fine precious metals.
       1.4.2. Precious metals are those metals generally considered to be uncommon and highly valu-
       able which are relatively superior in certain properties such as resistance to corrosion and electric
       conductivity. They include gold, silver, and metals of the platinum family to include palladium,
       iridium, osmium, rhodium, and ruthenium.
       1.4.3. Critical alloys should not be confused with precious metals. Critical alloys are defined as
       alloy materials which are often in short supply and usually must be imported, for example cobalt
       or manganese.

2. Responsibilities.
    2.1. The commander/director of the 448th Combat Sustainment Wing is assigned responsibility for
    base-wide program management and control of the PMRP.
    2.2. The OC-ALC/Tinker AFB PMRP manager will :
       2.2.1. Implement and be responsible for an effective base-wide program for the management and
       control of precious metals.
       2.2.2. Act as focal point for the installation on all matters concerning the PMRP.
       2.2.3. Establish and publish dates to conduct annual surveys to review operations, documentation,
       and adherence to overall program policies by each involved generating/using activity. Prepare and
       maintain on file a report of findings.
       2.2.4. When inspection schedules do not conflict, it is in the best interest of the OC-ALC/TAFB
       PMRP for a representative of the Security Police Administration and Reports Squadron (72 SFS/
       SFA) to accompany the OC-ALC/TAFB PMRP manager on annual surveys specified in para-
       graph 2.3.3. Administration and Reports Branch will furnish a copy of all Resources Protection
       Program (AFI 31-209) inspection results, relating to precious metals discrepancies, to the
       OC-ALC/TAFB PMRP manager for review and file.
       2.2.5. Maintain a list of each involved organization’s PMRP monitors/alternates, type of precious
       metals used and type of recovery equipment used, as appropriate.
       2.2.6. There is no requirement for the installation PMRP manager to keep a record of the amount
       of precious metals used on the installation, or fine precious metals, precious metals bearing scrap,
       or items turned in to the Defense Reutilization & Marketing Office (DRMO). The record keeping
       for use of fine precious metals and turn in of fine precious metals, scrap, and end items will be
       accomplished by the using/generating activity and will be subject to periodic review/audit by the
       PMRP manager. (Annual totals are published by the DRMS.)
       2.2.7. Ensure each activity involved in the PMRP initiates and maintains a self-inspection pro-
       gram to include, as a minimum, periodic testing of hypo-solution draining from electrolytic/car-
       tridge units to ensure they are operating properly, and compliance with receipt, issue, and turn-in
       requirements. Ensure necessary security precautions are taken to preclude any loss of precious
TINKERAFBI21-409 20 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                         3


       metals residue. Also ensure a disinterested party (one who does not operate the equipment or har-
       vest the silver) witnesses the harvesting.
       2.2.8. Conduct program management training for activity monitors on a periodic or as required
       basis. Perform reviews/surveys on activities’ performance under the PMRP. Prepare and maintain
       a report of findings and ensure corrective action is taken on any discrepancies.
       2.2.9. Serve as the focal point for ordering all supplies/equipment from the DLA/ DRMO. Ensure
       activities receiving, issuing, handling, and using fine precious metals and high content precious
       metals bearing items, particularly those assigned a Critical Item Code (CIC) of “R,” maintain
       appropriate auditable records, and that the records and quantities of material on hand are audited,
       periodically, but not less than once a year, by disinterested personnel, i.e., persons not involved in
       the use or recovery of precious metals. There are no requirements for issue control of items
       assigned a PMIC unless they have a CIC assigned which requires control. The base/depot supply
       officer may require control based on unusually high consumption rates.
NOTE: The Contracting Directorate is responsible for administration of the PMRP for off-site civilian
contractors. All direction to these contractors concerning the PMRP will be through the cognizant admin-
istrative contracting officer (ACO).

3. OC-ALC/TAFB participating activities will:
   3.1. Each major organization (group/division level) participating in the PMRP will appoint, in writ-
   ing, a PMRP monitor and alternate (as appropriate).
   3.2. Appoint, in writing, individuals to receipt for/issue precious metals, harvest precious metals, wit-
   ness harvesting of precious metals and certify the weight annotated on DD Form 1348-1, DoD Single
   Line Item Release/Receipt Document (see Attachment 1).
   3.3. Maintain a list of personnel occupying positions of special trust. Activities failing to properly
   document personnel assigned to positions of special trust may be refused issue of precious metals/pre-
   cious metals bearing items.
   3.4. Issue policy/instructions outlining complete PMRP procedures within their organization. The
   group/organizational primary PMRP monitor, at least once a year, will review and update the organi-
   zational policy to ensure compliance with the PMRP. The policy and any associated instruction
   should contain, as a minimum:
       3.4.1. Specific responsibilities in the handling and accounting of precious metals scrap, residue or
       stock numbered precious metal items in inventory.
       3.4.2. Definitions of typical items containing precious metals processed by the issuing organiza-
       tion.
       3.4.3. A workable plan to safeguard accumulated precious metals scrap, residue, or precious
       metal items in inventory from pilferage.
       3.4.4. Responsibilities and procedures for personnel training and safety.
       3.4.5. A workable plan to identify, segregates, and store items containing precious metals.
       3.4.6. Ensure that self-inspection checklists are developed and are consistent with operational
       peculiarities of each precious metals inventory control point or generating activity as deemed nec-
4                                                         TINKERAFBI21-409 20 SEPTEMBER 2007


       essary by the organizational monitor. Checklists should be updated, as necessary, to reflect find-
       ings and recommendations of periodic inspections. Wing/organizational primary and/or alternate
       PMRP monitors will use their locally developed checklists to conduct annual self-inspections of
       their respective organizations. A summary report of inspection results will be kept for reference
       purposes and a report of discrepancies forwarded to the OC-ALC/TAFB PMRP manager.

4. Turn-in Procedures.
    4.1. All excess and condemned items bearing precious metals will be turned into the Defense Reuti-
    lization and Marketing Office (DRMO) by their respective NSN unless they qualify for turn-in as
    scrap. Those items in supply condition code "A" must be turned-in by NSN. The DRMO, as applica-
    ble, will process the items for utilization, donation, sale, or recovery of the precious metals. The PMIC
    will be identified in column 62 of the DD Form 1348-1A. Additionally, all items with a “C” or “V”
    will have “Contains Precious Metals” annotated in the remarks block of the DD Form 1348-1A. Items
    will be safeguarded to minimize and prevent theft. Turn-in procedures are outlined in Attachment 1.
    Precious metals bearing scrap classification codes are defined in Attachment 2. NSN classifications
    for precious metals are listed below.

Table 1. NSN Classifications for Prescious Metals
                              NOMENCLATURE                             NSN
                 Gold                                              9660-00-042-7733
                 Silver                                            9660-00-106-9432
                 Platinum Granules                                 9660-00-042-7768
                 Platinum Sponge                                   9660-00-151-4050
                 Palladium Granules                                9660-00-042-7765
                 Palladium Sponge                                  9660-01-039-0320
                 Rhodium                                           9660-01-010-2625
                 Iridium                                           9660-01-011-1937
                 Ruthenium                                         9660-01-039-0313


    4.2. Turn-in to DRMO precious metals bearing scrap, waste, and excess refined precious metals.
    Items will be safeguarded to prevent theft. Turn-in procedures are outlined in Attachment 1 (DD
    Form1348-1A), per AFMAN 23-110.

5. Organizational Procedures.
    5.1. Group/division PMRP monitors will be responsible for establishment and maintenance of a
    PMRP notebook, which will contain all the required instructions and correspondence prescribed by
    this operating instruction (OC-ALC/TI 21-409).
    5.2. All generating activities will ensure that spent hypo-solution containing precious metals' residue
    is not introduced into the industrial drain system. Precious metals containing residue is hazardous. All
    organizations using electrolytic silver recovery systems and/or silver recovery cartridges will develop
TINKERAFBI21-409 20 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                      5


   adequate procedures for checking off-flow. This is to ensure equipment is operating at peak efficiency
   and ensures that minimal amounts of fixer containing silver flow through the system and into the facil-
   ity drainage system. Recovery equipment will:
       5.2.1. Always be kept in good repair.
       5.2.2. Be operated, cleaned, and harvested according to instructions provided in DoD 4160.21M,
       Chap X, Attachment 3, and operating manual supplied with each unit.
       5.2.3. Precious metals bearing materials scrap with hazardous characteristics will be treated as
       hazardous waste per DoD 4160.21M, Chapter VIII, and Chapter IX, Paragraph E.
       5.2.4. All base activities involved in the PMRP are responsible for making recommendations to
       the OC-ALC/TAFB PMRP manager regarding improvement to, or enhancement of, the program.
       The OC-ALC/TAFB PMRP manager will consolidate these recommendations for submission to
       AFMC/A4SM.
       5.2.5. The ACO or property administrator (PA) will ensure that any substantial precious metals
       residue generated by a contractor is returned to the government annually, at the conclusion of the
       contract, or more often as deemed necessary by the ACO.

6. Precious Metal Item Identification.
   6.1. NSNs containing precious metals have precious metal indicator codes (PMIC) assigned (see
   table below) in the federal cataloging system. Only those items which also have a CIC “R” assigned
   require protection, receipt, and issue control afforded precious metals. Those items with CIC “R”
   should be protected and handled as pilferable items IAW AFI 32-209. These codes indicate the exist-
   ence, nonexistence, and type of precious metals contained in the item of supply. The PMIC will:
       6.1.1. Be assigned by the equipment specialist (ES) and transmitted by the inventory managers to
       the federal cataloging system. The ES will also ensure PMICs are assigned at provisioning confer-
       ences. The PMICs should be obtained from the contractor by application of MIL-STD-1388-2A,
       DoD Requirements for a Logistics Support Analysis Record.
       6.1.2. Appear in the federal cataloging system publication MLC and be provided to base level
       organizations via the Stock Number Users Directory (SNUD).
       6.1.3. Be placed in column 62 of the disposal turn-in document when turning NSN material into
       the DRMO (Attachment 1).
6                                                     TINKERAFBI21-409 20 SEPTEMBER 2007


      6.1.4. When precious metals are offered as GFM in support of new procurement, the material will
      be identified on the GFM attachment, which accompanies the procurement document. Activities
      initiating purchase requests for procurement of precious metals, or for items where precious met-
      als can be furnished as GFM, will determine availability from DLA. Activities requiring precious
      metals will call Defense Industrial Supply Center (DISC) at DSN 442-3045 or 3006 for availabil-
      ity prior to requisitioning of any precious metals. Requisitions should be forwarded to:
      Defense Industrial Supply Center
      ATTN: OCCB
      700 Robbins Avenue
      Philadelphia, PA 19111

Table 2. Precious Metals Indicator Codes


      PMIC                                         DEFINITION
         A          Item does not contain Precious Metals.
         C          Item contains combination of two or more Precious Metals (silver, gold, and
                    platinum).
         G          Item contains gold.
         P          Item contains platinum family metals.
         S          Item contains silver.
         U          Precious metal type is unknown.
         V          Precious metal type varies.

NOTES:
          1. PMIC is a mandatory data element.
          2. Invalid PMIC submitted receives the HQ Return Code if not compatible with the
             characteristic data submitted/recorded in segment V.
          3. PMIC “V” addresses an “or” situation that may be encountered by the computer
             where the presence or absence of precious metals varies between items of production
             for the same item of supply.
      6.1.5. When items for which the Air Force is a user are suspected of, or have been laboratory
      tested to confirm precious metals content, and for which a PMIC has not been assigned or has
      been determined to be incorrect, the organizational prime PMRP monitor will prepare and submit
      reports of the items suspected or identified as containing precious metals to the OC-ALC/TAFB
      PMRP manager as they are generated. The reports will contain: NSN, manufacturer's part number,
      noun, description, type of precious metal and a copy of the laboratory analysis.
      6.1.6. The OC-ALC/TAFB PMRP manager will forward information on any OC-ALC managed
      item suspected to contain precious metals to the 948 CBSG cataloging monitor for review/valida-
      tion of PMIC. When an item managed by another ALC or service/agency is suspected to contain
TINKERAFBI21-409 20 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                         7


      precious metals, the OC-ALC /TAFB PMRP manager will forward a letter to that activity request-
      ing review/validation of PMIC. Upon receipt of completed action by the appropriate IM/ES, the
      OC-ALC/TAFB PMRP manager will advise originator of action taken.
      6.1.7. For local assignment of PMIC to K (kit) stock numbers, the following applies: PMIC “A”
      will be assigned to kit NSNs having no known precious metals content. PMIC “V” (precious met-
      als content varies) will be assigned to kit NSNs known to contain precious metals.
      6.1.8. When turn-in of a kit NSN is affected, the kit will either be turned-in as a kit and the DRMO
      will recover the precious metals; or the kit will be disassembled and the items that generated the
      PMIC “V” will be turned-in under their respective NSNs.

7. Repair, Modification & Overhaul Contract.
   7.1. AF activities requiring fine precious metals for internal AF programs and for use on production/
   repair contracts as GFM will follow procedures outlined in AFMAN 23-110, Volume VI, Chapter 4,
   Paragraph 10. When contracts are initiated by applicable product directorate, Appendix A will iden-
   tify appropriate directive and technical order when repair items contain precious metals.
   7.2. Identify the items or parts to be used during repair or modifications which contain precious met-
   als and list separately as an attachment to Appendix B of such contracts.
   7.3. Review requirements for accountability reporting, security, and disposition of items containing
   precious metals will be reviewed during pre and post-award surveys as required by AFMCI 21-113.

8. Selection of Personnel for PMRP Positions of Special Trust.
   8.1. Supervisor responsibilities. First-level supervisors will not place persons in positions of special
   trust until a record check with 72 SFS/SFA has been completed. This applies to persons transferred or
   reinstated from a previous position of special trust. A PMRP "position of trust" refers to a position in
   which the individual is responsible for the issue/handling, storage, harvesting, and safeguarding of
   either fine precious metals or items that contain precious metals.
   8.2. 72d Security Forces Squadron (SFS) responsibilities. The 72 SFS/SFA will review security
   files of personnel, both military and civilian, who are to be placed in positions of special trust. Secu-
   rity forces will notify requestor of their findings and recommendations within 10 days.
   8.3. Identification of positions. First-level supervisors, with the assistance of the group and/or orga-
   nizational PMRP monitors, will identify positions that require special trust within the PMRP.
   8.4. Assignment to Positions of Special Trust. Supervisors will request a records check by letter
   (see Attachment 4) through the organizational PMRP monitor to the 72 SFS. If the records check is
   satisfactory, the supervisor can appoint the person to the position of special trust. The original copy of
   the appointment will be retained by the requesting organization.
   8.5. Individuals may be removed from a position of special trust by annotating their removal in writ-
   ing by the appointing official.
8                                                     TINKERAFBI21-409 20 SEPTEMBER 2007


9. Records. All PMRP monitor appointment memos are to be file maintained in the appropriate PMRP
monitor’s notebook. Positions of Trust appointments/removals must be file maintained in the appropriate
PMRP monitor’s notebook. All training records and self-inspection results are to be filed maintained in
the appropriate PMRP monitor’s notebook. These constitute evidence of actions taken and, as such, must
be entered into the appropriate group file plan.



                                             ROBERT J. CONNE
                                             Director
TINKERAFBI21-409 20 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                               9


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 4160.21M, Defense Utilization and Disposal Manual, Chapter XII
AFM 23-110, Volume VI, Chapter 4, Precious Metals Recovery Program
AFI 32-209, Resources Protection Program
AFMCM 23-3, Request for Cataloging Data/Action
T.O. 00-25-113, Conservation, Segregation, and Disposal of Critical Alloys and Precious Metals
AFMCI 21-113, Contract Maintenance Programs for Depot Maintenance Business Area (DMBA).
10                                                       TINKERAFBI21-409 20 SEPTEMBER 2007


                                              Attachment 2

                                        TURN-IN PROCEDURES
     1. Turn-in precious metals bearing scrap, sludge, flake, solutions, powders, black and white photo-
        graphs and negatives, and other mixtures and forms, and excess fine precious metals to the servic-
        ing DRMO.
     2. Turn-in excess and condemned items bearing precious metals as items by NSN, unless they qual-
        ify for turn-in as scrap. If the PMIC has been assigned, place it in column 62 of the DD Form
        1348-1A.
     3. Turn-in excess fine precious metals by the NSN assigned. Enter troy weight in grams in columns
        25-29. Enter the kind of fine precious metals in blocks “w” through “y.”
     4. Harvest silver flake and silver sludge.
     5. Enter silver flake or silver sludge as wet or dry, as applicable, in blocks “w” through “y.” Enter
        “silver recovery cartridge” and serial number when turning-in a silver recovery cartridge.
     6. Identify the type of scrap for silver, gold, and platinum scrap generated as a result of grinding,
        drilling, cutting, etc., in blocks “w” through “y,” before turning in to DRMO.
     7. Turn-in all other precious metals bearing scrap with the weight in avoirdupois pounds and blocks
        “w” through “y” annotated “precious metals bearing scrap.” Industrial funded (IF) activities need
        to mark the DD Form 1348-1A as “industrial fund scrap” and include the IF account number to
        which 100 percent of the sales proceeds will be deposited should the DRMO sell the scrap.
     8. Data required on the turn-in document when turning material in as scrap include: stock number,
        retention quantity, demilitarization code, reclamation code, automated data processing equipment
        code (ADPEC), condition code, unit cost, and total cost.
     9. Explain any variance in weight when weighing precious metals turn-ins. It may be necessary to
        re-weigh material when transporting between two locations and different scales. If a variance still
        occurs, document the circumstances, sign and date the DD Form 1348-1A, and have the DRMO
        representative also sign and date the document. Keep a copy of the document with your precious
        metals records.
     10. Enter the Demil code for any item turned-in by NSN in column 65 of the DD Form 1348-1A.
         This is a mandatory entry.
NOTE: Turn-in of precious metals bearing items/scrap does not override restrictions imposed for the
turn-in of hazardous material/waste such as the mercury found in some electromechanical switches, or the
Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCBs) found in some electronic capacitors. When in doubt, turn-in procedures
for hazardous materials will take precedent.
TINKERAFBI21-409 20 SEPTEMBER 2007                   11


                               Attachment 3

                    ISSUE RELEASE/RECEIPT DOCUMENT
12                                                       TINKERAFBI21-409 20 SEPTEMBER 2007


                                              Attachment 4

                               PRECIOUS METALS BEARING SCCS
Code           Description
PBI            Silver chloride-magnesium batteries
PB4            Small silver-zinc batteries and battery cell sections encased in a plastic container
PB5            Silver-zinc batteries encased in epoxy-type plastic with metal cases and attachments
PB6            Silver-cadmium batteries
PO2            Expanded hypo solution derived from the processing of photographic film and papers
PO3            Silver bearing sludge derived from cleaning out electrolytic silver recovery units
PO4            Photographic films and papers, including x-ray and other types of silver-bearing photo-
graphic film and paper
PO6            Exhausted chemical recovery cartridges used in recovery of silver from hypo solution by
metallic displacement
PO7            Expended cyanide-based liquids, sludge, powder or salts derived from plating and/or
de-plating operations. May contain gold, silver or platinum.
PO8            Expended acid-based liquids, sludge, powder, or salts derived from plating and/or de-plat-
ing operations. May contain gold, silver or platinum.
P13            High temp alloy containing precious metals, such as stator vanes, aircraft engine exhaust
cones and aircraft panels. Excludes spark plugs, thermocouples and breakers.
P24            Segregated, but not sorted, electrical and electronic scrap containing precious metals.
P8A            Platinum family bearing and plated items, such as platinum plated electronic scrap, contact
points/breakers and insignia.
P8B            Silver-bearing, washed and/or plated material such as silver-plated electronic scrap.
P8C            Gold-bearing and plated items such as used anodes, machine turnings, and gold-plated
electronic scrap.
P8D            Silver-bearing dental amalgam, excluding unused silver pellets used to make amalgam.
                                      ATTACHMENT 3 (Cont'd)
P8E            Sorted electronic scrap containing parts which are gold/silver/platinum bearing or plated
and which contain small amounts of aluminum, iron and/or plastic. May include contacts, capacitors, cir-
cuit boards/cards, fuses and connectors.
P8F            Sorted scrap containing gold/silver/platinum with a predominant base metal other than
copper. May include electronic modules which have a magnesium/aluminum base, are plated with silver
inside and out and have the silver plating overlaid with gold plating or gold wash.
P81            Platinum-bearing spark plugs (usually from aircraft)
P83            Platinum-bearing thermocouples and magnetos
TINKERAFBI21-409 20 SEPTEMBER 2007                                                                            13


P84            De-salter kits
P85            Gold-plated or washed buttons
P86            Gold-filled eyeglasses frames
VGM              Gold-bearing material such as powder, salts, foil, leaf, pellets, dental castings, brazing
alloys, dental lingual bars or alloy gold wire.
VPM           Platinum family-bearing material such as dental alloys, scraps, sweepings, jewelry, labora-
tory ware and wire.
VSF            Metallic silver flake derived from electrolytic processing of hypo solution
VSM            Silver-bearing material consisting of used anodes, drillings from anodes and grain silver,
               wire for welding or brazing and all other silver with 90 percent or better purity. Includes
               unused silver pellets for dental amalgam.
