BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                        32-7004

                                                                                4 MARCH 2011

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                      HAZARDUOUS WASTE MANGEMENT

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or
               ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 72 ABW/CEAN                                                   Certified by: 72 ABW/CEAN
Supersedes: TINKER AFBI 32-7004,                                                   (Trudi Logan)
            22 May 2006                                                                Pages: 75


This Tinker Air Force Base Instruction implements Air Force Instruction 32-7042, Solid and
Hazardous Waste Compliance. It identifies compliance for all solid and hazardous wastes,
except for radioactive wastes. This guidance along with Federal, State and local standards for
solid and hazardous waste are to be used at Tinker Air Force Base. It does not apply to the Air
National Guard and Air Force Reserve units, except where noted otherwise. This Tinker AFBI
may not be supplemented. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s form the field throught publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes include:
Changing the organizational designations to reflect the current Tinker AFB structure and a
rearrangement of some paragraphs to combine information on similar topics.
 2                                                                       TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


      1.    INTRODUCTION: ................................................................................................          3
Table 1.    List of Federal Laws and Regulations ...................................................................                3
      2.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION: .....................................................................                           4
      3.    ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES: .......................................................                                6
      4.    ENFORCEMENT: .................................................................................................         15
      5.    WASTE MANAGEMENT INVENTORIES. .......................................................                                  16
      6.    APPROVAL TO ACCUMULATE HAZARDOUS WASTE AND RECEIVE
            CONTAINERS. .....................................................................................................      16
      7.    WASTE MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES. ........................................................                                  18
Table 2.    Example Emergency Response Plan ......................................................................                 22
Table 3.    Operational Checklist Initial Accumulation Point .................................................                     23
Table 4.    Operational Checklist Accumulation Site ..............................................................                 28
      8.    PROCEDURES FOR TURN-IN OF HAZARDOUS WASTE BY GENERATORS.                                                               30
      9.    OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR THE HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
            FACILITY (HWMF). ............................................................................................ 34
      10.   MANAGEMENT OF PERMITTED STORAGE FACILITY (PSF). ...................                                                    36
      11.   OFF-SITE TRACKING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE SHIPMENTS. ..................                                                     36
Table 5.    Example of Label Information ...............................................................................           38
      12.   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT TRAINING. .....................................                                             40
      13.   ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE MONITORING. ......................................                                            41
      14.   EMPTY CONTAINER HANDLING PROCEDURES. ........................................                                          43
      15.   UNIVERSAL WASTE LAMP MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES. ....................                                                       43
      16.   Adopted Forms: .....................................................................................................   46
      17.   Prescribed Forms: ..................................................................................................   46

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                     47

Attachment 2—A2. WASTE ANALYSIS PLAN:                                                                                              58

Attachment 3—INFORMATION AND EMERGENCY CONTACTS TINKER AFB                                                                         71

Attachment 4—SPILL DISCOVERY AND INITIAL RESPONSE PROCEDURES                                                                       73

Attachment 5—RECORD OF ANNUAL REVIEW                                                                                               74

Attachment 6—RECORD OF CHANGES                                                                                                     75
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                 3


1. INTRODUCTION:
   1.1. An Air Force goal is to be the DoD leader in environmental compliance and protection.
   This instruction contains information that shall be used at Tinker AFB to meet Federal, State,
   DoD, Air Force and local hazardous waste management standards.
   1.2. Nationally, past failures to properly manage hazardous waste have created some of the
   most serious environmental problems in the United States. Some consequences include
   pollution of surface and ground water, declining real estate values and, in some cases,
   degradation of human health. This background prompted Congress, in 1976, to enact the
   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). Major amendments to this law, in 1980
   and 1984, established requirements to track hazardous waste from point of generation to
   point of disposal (cradle to grave), to clean up sites previously contaminated (corrective
   action), to ensure that untreated hazardous wastes are not placed in the land (land disposal
   restrictions) and to reduce its generation (pollution prevention).
   1.3. A list of Federal laws and implementing regulations concerning hazardous waste
   management is shown in Table 1.

Table 1. List of Federal Laws and Regulations
      List of Federal Laws and Regulations

      L: Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), 42 USC 6901-6992K
      R: 40 CFR Parts 260-279; EPA

      L: Federal Facilities Compliance Act
      (FFCA), Pub. Law 102-386 (1992); DOJ

      L: Hazardous Material Transportation Act (HMTA), 49 USC 1801 et. seq.
      R. 49 CFR Parts 171-179; DOT

      L: Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA), 15 USC 2601-2692
      R: 40 CFR Parts 700-799; EPA

      L: Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA),
      42 USC 9601-9675
      R: 40 CFR Parts 300-372; EPA

      L: Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), 29 USC 651 et seq.
      R: 29 CFR Parts 1900-1999 (especially 1910); DOL

      (L: Law, R: Regulation) (Regulating agency is underlined.)
   1.4. Because Tinker AFB is located in the State of Oklahoma, the laws of that state also
   apply. For hazardous waste management, the applicable state law is the “Oklahoma
   Hazardous Waste Management Act,” 27A O.S. Section 2-7-101 et seq. Implementing
   regulations for that law is in Title 252, Oklahoma Administrative Code, and Chapter 205:
   “Hazardous Waste Management.” The State agency responsible for administering those
4                                                      TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


    rules is the Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ). The DEQ has
    Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) authorization to administer the RCRA program in
    Oklahoma, including provisions of the 1984 Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments
    (HSWA).
    1.5. The Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service (DRMS) is responsible for recycling,
    reuse and disposal of DoD hazardous property. Chapter IX of DoD Manual 4160.21-M,
    Defense Reutilization and Marketing Manual, and DRMS Manual 6050.1, Environmental
    Compliance for the DRMS Hazardous Property Program, explain general procedures for
    implementing the DRMS hazardous property program.
    1.6. AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, outlines U.S. Air Force policy on hazardous waste
    management. AFPAM 32-7043, Hazardous Waste Management Guide, contains details for
    maintaining compliance at all Air Force installations.
    1.7. Current copies of the laws, rules and regulations are located in the Office of the Staff
    Judge Advocate. Most are also available at the Asset Management Division (72
    ABW/CEA).
    1.8. In the event of conflict between this instruction and any Federal or State laws or
    regulations, or Air Force instructions, follow the most stringent requirement.
    1.9. Dissemination of information and coordination of environmental projects among
    organizational units at Tinker AFB is accomplished through the Environmental Safety and
    Occupational Health Council (ESOH). This council is composed of Directors of the base
    organizations and chaired by the 72 ABW Commander. Quarterly meetings of the
    Hazardous Waste Working Group (HWWG), composed of Unit Environmental Coordinators
    from each organization and chaired by 72 ABW/CEAN, ensure that information needed to
    operate and stay in compliance reaches those handling the waste.
    1.10. The delegated authority to manage the hazardous waste program is:
       1.10.1. Asset Management Division -- 72 ABW/CEA
                                               7535 5th Street
                                               Tinker AFB OK 73145
       1.10.2. Asset Management Natural Infrastructure Branch -- 72 ABW/CEAN
                                                                   7535 5th Street
                                                                   Tinker AFB OK 73145-9100
                                                                   (405) 734-5199
                                                                   DSN 884-5199
    1.11. This instruction applies to all generators of hazardous and non-hazardous industrial
    waste at Tinker AFB, including contractors. Information in Attachment 1, Waste Analysis
    Plan, can be used to help determine if you are such a generator. If that determination appears
    to be positive, contact CEA and proceed with proper management of that waste. Non-
    hazardous industrial wastes will be managed in the same manner as hazardous wastes.
2. BACKGROUND INFORMATION:
    2.1. Facility Description. Tinker AFB is located in central Oklahoma, within the corporate
    limits of Oklahoma City, about ten miles southeast of the downtown area and adjacent to the
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                   5


  suburbs of Midwest City and Del City. The base is bordered by Interstate 40 on the north
  side, Douglas Boulevard on the east, Sooner Road on the west and industrial and Southeast
  74th Street on the south.
     2.1.1. Tinker AFB is a military installation owned and operated by the United States Air
     Force. Its primary mission is the maintenance, repair and modification of military
     aircraft. The principal organization at the base is the Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center
     (OC-ALC), which controls and directs that mission. Other organizations based at Tinker
     depend upon the ALC for custodial support. Approximately 26,000 military and civilian
     personnel are employed at the base. OC-ALC reports directly to Headquarters, Air Force
     Materiel Command, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH. OC-ALC is organized into directorates
     and wings that reflect the major products and services produced.
  2.2. Waste Generation. The majority of waste streams generated at Tinker AFB are from
  aircraft maintenance, modification and jet engine overhaul activities.
     2.2.1. The largest waste streams result from surface preparation of aircraft skin,
     structural members and engine parts. This activity includes paint removal and
     application; grease, dirt and carbon removal; metal etching and priming; and abrasive
     blasting. These processes generate toxic solvents, corrosive acids and bases, ignitable
     liquids and solutions contaminated with toxic metals. Other large waste streams result
     from alteration of metal surfaces through removal by grinding and cutting operations or
     through build-up by electroplating and plasma-spray operations. These processes
     generate toxic metals, contaminated cutting and coolant fluids and corrosive liquids.
     2.2.2. Maintenance of both aircraft and ground vehicles including oil, filters and
     antifreeze replacement as well as purging of tanks, fuel systems and hydraulic lines
     generates large quantities of used oil, aircraft fuel, gasoline, antifreeze and hydraulic oil.
     Much of this material is sent to recyclers for energy recovery or reclamation.
     Occasionally, contamination by heavy metals or solvents requires shipment to disposal.
     2.2.3. Sludges resulting from operation of the Industrial Wastewater Treatment Plant
     (IWTP) are large hazardous waste streams at the base. The sludges result from treatment
     of dilute rinse water inflowing from nearly all of the above-described processes. The
     sludge of greatest volume is contaminated with toxic metals and may be corrosive.
     Sludge from the bottoms of oil separators has a high organic content and may also
     contain toxic metals. Liquid oils and fuel from the tops of these separators are shipped to
     recyclers for energy recovery.
     2.2.4. Other significant waste streams resulting from daily operations include soil,
     sorbents and debris contaminated with solvents, oils, fuels and corrosives from clean up
     of spills; photographic chemicals and miscellaneous items such as batteries, aerosol cans,
     mercury instruments, glues and adhesives.
     2.2.5. Tinker also generates additional waste streams from RCRA corrective actions on
     past-contaminated sites and remediation of a Superfund site on the base. These wastes
     consist of solvent, hydrocarbon and metal contaminated soil and debris removed during
     remediation projects.
 6                                                      TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


     2.3. Hazardous Waste Management Overview. Since 1979 disposal of hazardous waste
     or of any solid waste has not been allowed on Tinker AFB. In fact, the remediation of past
     disposal sites on the base is the subject of extensive current activity.
        2.3.1. A large portion of the hazardous waste generated at Tinker AFB is not
        accumulated or stored on site. This includes sludge from the IWTP, corrosive and heavy
        metal contaminated liquids from process tanks and contaminated soil and debris from
        remediation projects. These wastes are pumped or loaded directly into tank trucks or
        dump trucks and transported offsite to a permitted TSDF. Disposal is accomplished
        through contracts managed by the 72 ABW/CEA Division or Civil Engineering.
        2.3.2. Most wastes that are accumulated and stored on-site are disposed of through
        DRMS. These wastes require more management effort because of the inspection and
        inventory requirements of RCRA, and the fact that most are held in 55-gallon drums.
        2.3.3. Most rinse water and dilute industrial wastes are treated at the IWTP. Although
        the sludge generated at this plant is disposed of as hazardous waste, the plant operation
        itself is excluded from RCRA regulation. The IWTP meets the definition of a wastewater
        treatment unit at 40 CFR 264.1(g)(6).
3. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES: Although the CEA Division is responsible
for overall management of the hazardous waste program at Tinker, all base personnel are
responsible for compliance. Disposal by DRMS or by contractors does not remove the
responsibility to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Each generating organization is
responsible for conducting proper management and pre-disposal practices when managing its
hazardous waste. In addition to that basic responsibility, the following responsibilities are
designed to ensure a smooth flow in the hazardous waste management system at Tinker AFB. In
the event of regulatory modifications and/or amendments, each generating organization, as
advised by 72 ABW/CEAN, will be responsible for ensuring their actions are in compliance with
Federal, State and Air Force requirements until this instruction has been modified. Training
requirements as mandated by AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, 21 April 2009, states, “All
personnel whose work involves HW and their immediate supervisors must receive and
successfully complete HW training appropriate to their job and responsibilities.”
     3.1. Asset Management Natural Infrastructure Branch (72 ABW/CEAN) will:
        3.1.1. Serve as the central base coordinator for the hazardous waste program and for
        questions regarding compliance with Federal, State, DoD and Air Force requirements.
        3.1.2. Set forth policies on all issues related to hazardous waste compliance regulations.
        3.1.3. Chair the Hazardous Waste Working Group and provide space for meetings.
        3.1.4. Maintain a hazardous waste database to include the following: type, quantity,
        location, process of generation, disposal cost, disposal method and disposal location.
        3.1.5. Represent the base during compliance inspections by Federal, State and local
        regulatory officials, and respond to inspection related questions.
        3.1.6. Coordinate with the Staff Judge Advocate’s Office and respond to inquiries
        regarding policy or management decisions and interpretation of regulations.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                             7


     3.1.7. Maintain a List of Organizational Unit Environmental Coordinators (UECs) which
     can be easily accessible.
     3.1.8. Advise UECs and 72 FSS/FSDT on changes to regulations, manuals and other
     directives as appropriate.
     3.1.9. Monitor industrial operations and disseminate information among organizations
     that generate hazardous waste.
     3.1.10. Review applications for new, or modifications to, hazardous waste management
     sites and issue approval documents as appropriate.
     3.1.11. Conduct periodic compliance monitoring visits within each Division/
     Organization to determine status of accumulation methods and management procedures.
     3.1.12. Verify suitability of off-site TSDFs.
     3.1.13. Develop, review and update as necessary, base regulations/instructions, manuals,
     unit operating instructions, contingency plans and other documents dealing with
     hazardous waste management. This will be done every three years or if significant laws
     or regulations are passed.
     3.1.14. Monitor and modify as necessary the RCRA “Part A” and “Part B” operating
     permits for Tinker AFB.
     3.1.15. Coordinate with DRMS and OC-ALC/JAV concerning modifications to permits.
     3.1.16. Ensure proper closure of hazardous waste management sites.
     3.1.17. Coordinate with DEQ to update and maintain a current Oklahoma State Disposal
     Plan for Tinker AFB.
     3.1.18. Prepare and transmit reports concerning the generation, shipment and disposal of
     hazardous wastes. These include the Biennial Report (40 CFR 262.41), Exception
     Reports (40 CFR 262.42) and monthly and quarterly reports to DEQ.
     3.1.19. Monitor the Hazardous Waste Training Course provided by 72 FSS/FSDT and
     provide information to ensure its currency.
     3.1.20. Oversee operation of the Hazardous Waste Management Facility (HWMF) and
     the Container Processing Facility (CPF) and instruct users on proper procedures.
     3.1.21. Provide guidance to those not using the HWMF on pre-disposal processing of
     hazardous waste property.
     3.1.22. Coordinate with Hazardous Pharmacy Program (HPP) to ensure that waste
     stream constituents correspond to chemicals approved for use.
     3.1.23. Coordinate with DRMS and its disposal contractor to ensure smooth flow of
     hazardous waste to permitted storage, ultimate disposal or recycling facilities.
     3.1.24. Assist DRMS on disposal contract modifications, claims or disputes.
     3.1.25. Assist Service Contracts Section to develop and modify a base hazardous waste
     contract, and help resolve any claims or disputes.
     3.1.26. Coordinate with base contractor on shipments of hazardous waste.
8                                                     TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


       3.1.27. Package, mark, label and offer placards for bulk shipments of hazardous waste to
       be disposed of off-base according to Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations on
       hazardous materials in 49 CFR Part 172.
       3.1.28. Assist generators not using HWMF with completion of DD Form 1348-1a, Issue
       Release/Receipt Document, to track waste streams from generation point to DRMS and to
       monitor disposal funds.
       3.1.29. Initiate an annual characterization of waste streams generated at Tinker AFB.
       3.1.30. Develop and maintain a current file of hazardous waste profile sheets in
       conjunction with DRMS.
       3.1.31. Ensure hazardous waste manifests for generators other than HWMF users,
       DRMS and Service Contract Section are properly completed.
       3.1.32. Maintain an updated list of persons authorized to prepare and sign manifests and
       Land Disposal Restriction (LDR) forms.
       3.1.33. Maintain files of manifests and LDR forms from all Tinker AFB generators for at
       least three years.
       3.1.34. Ensure a copy of each manifest, with the handwritten signature of the disposal
       facility owner or operator, is received within 45 days of shipment.
       3.1.35. Maintain files of Certificates of Disposal permanently and the disposal
       contractor’s delivery orders for at least three years.
       3.1.36. Maintain a record of waste disposal cost information and update as necessary
       when those costs are altered by DRMS versus contractor negotiations or other reasons.
       3.1.37. Coordinate with Accounting and Finance to track funding of hazardous waste
       disposal and verify billing charges.
       3.1.38. Develop and manage a spill response capability.
       3.1.39. Review the OC-ALC Plan 19-2, Spill Prevention and Response Plan, and revise
       as necessary. This plan is required to be reviewed and updated every five years.
       3.1.40. Conduct and coordinate a base-wide internal ECAMP Hazardous Waste Protocol
       inspection annually, and assist the team when an external ECAMP is conducted.
       3.1.41. Attend formal instruction that acquaints the student with the details of RCRA
       regulations in 40 CFR 260 through 279; applicable State Laws and regulations; DoD, Air
       Force and local requirements and in annual refresher classes, updates the student on
       changes to those rules. This training can be obtained through creditable training
       institutions or companies approved by 72 ABW/CEA or through AF Training
       Organizations.
    3.2. 72 ABW/CEPV- Environmental Laboratory will:
       3.2.1. Maintain a credible chemical laboratory.
       3.2.2. Collect samples, conduct analysis and prepare appropriate reports for the
       characterization of waste streams and for routine wastes generated at TAFB.
       3.2.3. Review the Waste Analysis Plan annually and update as necessary.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                 9


  3.3. Restoration Branch (72 ABW/CEPR) will:
     3.3.1. Manage corrective action and remediation projects at Solid Waste Management
     Units (SWMUs) and National Priorities List (NPL) sites at Tinker AFB.
     3.3.2. Ensure that manifests for shipment of hazardous waste from SWMUs and NPL
     sites are coordinated through 72 ABW/CEAN.
     3.3.3. Ensure that generator’s copy of manifest is delivered to 72 ABW/CEAN within
     two hours after initial transporter accepts shipment.
  3.4. Asset Management Natural Infrastructure Branch (72 ABW/CEAN) will:
     3.4.1. Prepare and submit a Hazardous Waste Minimization Report quarterly to AFMC.
     3.4.2. Coordinate funding requirements for disposal of hazardous waste.
  3.5. Units that Generate Any Hazardous Waste will:
     3.5.1. Comply with all applicable guidelines in this plan.
     3.5.2. For Wings, Tenants and other major organizations: appoint UECs and alternates
     to be primary contacts for environmental management issues.
     3.5.3. For each unit: designate in writing, primary and alternate HW managers and
     supervisor for that unit’s hazardous waste management sites for each shift of operation.
     3.5.4. Provide names, office symbols and telephone numbers of primary and alternate
     UECs and HW Managers to 72 ABW/CEAN within five days of appointment.
     3.5.5. Ensure that the designated monitors of hazardous waste and their supervisors
     receive annual RCRA training as required by 40 CFR, such as the hazardous waste
     training provided by AFIT.
     3.5.6. Supervisors need to examine employee training to ensure that adequate site- and
     task specific familiarization is accomplished, and supplement with on-the-job training, as
     needed.
     3.5.7. Supervisors will contact the organization’s training manager to request training.
     The training manager will then contact 72 FSS/FSDE to schedule personnel for training.
  3.5.8. Ensure that supervisors maintain training records for personnel involved in hazardous
  waste management. Records for current personnel will be maintained until closure of the
  facility, and records of former personnel will be maintained for three years from the last date
  of employment at Tinker AFB. The records may be kept in hard copy or electronic format.
     3.5.8.1. At a minimum, training records should include the student’s name, job title, job
     description, previous HW training, dates of training, training provider and date of annual
     refresher course.
     3.5.9. With guidance from Classification (72 FSS/FSMCED), ensure that job
     descriptions, individual training plans and performance plans reflect hazardous waste
     management duties and responsibilities.
     3.5.10. Report any inability to comply with this instruction to 72 ABW/CEAN at 734-
     3278.
10                                                  TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


     3.5.11. Ensure all record keeping and reporting requirements are met.
     3.5.12. Ensure no accumulation of hazardous waste occurs except at appropriately
     established management sites.
     3.5.13. For proper characterization of waste streams, provide essential information to the
     organization’s UEC annually or when changes occur or new waste streams are identified.
     3.5.14. Package, mark and label all containers of hazardous waste as instructed herein
     during accumulation and prior to turn-in to DRMS if containers are not processed
     through the HWMF.
     3.5.15. Take active measures to reduce the volume of hazardous waste generated.
     3.5.16. Coordinate with DRMS to ensure surplus hazardous materials are made available
     to all potential users.
     3.5.17. Operate and maintain hazardous waste management sites as instructed herein.
     3.5.18. Coordinate with the HWMF for receipt of bar-coded hazardous waste containers
     and for their return when full.
     3.5.19. Perform Initial Response actions outlined in Attachment 4 of this instruction
     upon spilling a hazardous substance or waste. Be responsible for the clean-up of all
     minor spills.
     3.5.20. Ensure that statements of work (SOW) for projects that involve generation of
     hazardous waste are routed to their organization’s UEC, who will coordinate with 72
     ABW/CEAN as necessary and to set up IAPs.                 SOW’s must include training
     requirements for all involved personnel. Contractor Quality Assurance Evaluators
     (QAEs) shall insure that requirements of this instruction are included in the contract and
     brought to the contractor's attention. Contractor QAEs may be appointed as IAP
     managers for their contractors. MILCON projects will provide funding for the disposal
     of industrial and hazardous wastes and may require contractors to provide those services.
     If the SOW requires 72 FSS/FSDT training, a copy of the SOW must be provided to 72
     FSS/FSDT for review prior to entering into the contract.
     3.5.21. Supervisors at hazardous waste management sites shall sign inspection forms and
     inventory logs, keep a copy of these forms and logs for a period of one year and send the
     originals to their UEC.
     3.5.22. When a site is no longer needed, ensure that all hazardous waste management
     sites comply with the guidelines in this instruction for hazardous waste facility closure.
     3.5.23. Maintain list of hazardous waste streams currently generated within the unit.
     3.5.24. Conduct periodic surveys to ensure proper identification of processes generating
     hazardous waste.
  3.6. Unit Environmental Coordinators (UECs) will:
     3.6.1. Serve as the coordinator in their organization for disseminating information and
     providing guidance on proper accumulation and management of hazardous wastes.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                           11


     3.6.2. Provide current information to the organization commander, and unit supervisors
     about hazardous waste issues.
     3.6.3. Coordinate with CEA on meeting needs of the organization’s hazardous waste
     management program and on correcting any deficiencies that may be discovered.
     3.6.4. Represent their organization at all HWWG meetings.
     3.6.5. Ensure that Site Specific Contingency Plans (SSCPs) are current and posted in
     proper locations and that equipment is maintained in usable condition.
     3.6.6. Maintain a current list of HW management sites within their organization and
     coordinate with 72 ABW/CEAN for approval to establish new sites or change existing
     sites.
     3.6.7. Maintain a current list of personnel who handle, monitor or manage hazardous
     waste operations within their organization. Ensure that training requirements are met.
     3.6.8. Coordinate with organizational training manager about number of personnel
     needing annual Hazardous Waste Training from 72 FSS/FSDT.
     3.6.9. Ensure copies of inspection forms and waste inventory logs for initial
     accumulation points and accumulation sites are maintained at the generation site for at
     least one year. The originals should be received each month by the UEC.
     3.6.10. The UEC will review the original forms for problem trends and maintain them in
     an orderly manner for three years for inspection purposes. Electronic versions of these
     forms are acceptable.
     3.6.11. Conduct an inspection of all hazardous waste management sites within their
     organization every month, documenting and reporting findings to 72 ABW/CEAN,
     except when serving as a member of the Hazardous Waste Site Inspection Team
     (HWSIT). For larger organizations, this may be delegated to a Hazardous Waste Monitor
     within the organization. The required weekly inspections documented on TINKER AFB
     Form 487, Initial Accumulation Point Management Aid, may be used by the Hazardous
     Waste Monitor as documentation for monthly inspections. If delegated, the UEC will
     still inspect each site at least semi-annually.
     3.6.12. Serve as a member of the HWSIT which will conduct annual inspections of all
     organizations hazardous waste programs under direction of 72 ABW/CEAN.
     Accompany the HWSIT inspector through their organization during the inspection.
     3.6.13. Serve as the organization’s point of contact for all inspections.
     3.6.14. Conduct periodic (annually at a minimum) review of their organization’s waste
     stream inventory. Submit information to 72 ABW/CEAN upon discovery of new or
     modified waste streams.
     3.6.15. Oversee coordination with HPP if unauthorized chemicals appear in waste
     streams.
     3.6.16. Review SOWs for projects that involve generation of hazardous waste.
     Coordinate with 72 ABW/CEAN any requirements for waste management for
     contractors.
12                                                   TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


     3.6.17. Attend formal instruction that acquaints the student with the details of RCRA
     regulations in 40 CFR 260 through 279; applicable State Laws and regulations; DoD, Air
     Force and local requirements; and in annual refresher classes, updates the student on
     changes to those rules. This training can be obtained through creditable training
     institutions or companies approved by CEA or through AF Training Organizations.
  3.7. Fire Protection Division (72 ABW/CEF) will:
     3.7.1. Provide technical assistance and advice concerning necessary fire protection for
     hazardous waste management sites.
     3.7.2. Provide a subject matter expert when requested for initial and annual hazardous
     waste training.
     3.7.3. Respond to spills as outlined in OC-ALC Plan 19-2.
     3.7.4. Inspect hazardous waste management sites on a periodic basis to ensure
     compliance with USAF and National Fire Protection Association standards.
     3.7.5. Coordinate on establishment of hazardous waste management sites.
  3.8. Safety Office (72 ABW/SE) will:
     3.8.1. Provide technical assistance and advice concerning proper handling and storage
     procedures at hazardous waste management sites.
     3.8.2. Provide a subject matter expert when requested to discuss safety issues at initial
     and annual hazardous waste training.
     3.8.3. Inspect hazardous waste management sites on a periodic basis to ensure
     compliance with USAF and OSHA directives.
     3.8.4. Coordinate on establishment of hazardous waste management sites.
  3.9. Service Contracts Section (72 ABW/CEES) will:
     3.9.1. Request delegation of authority from CEA for personnel who will prepare and sign
     Hazardous Waste Manifests and LDR forms. Proof of training is required to receive that
     delegation.
     3.9.2. Deliver generator’s copy of manifest to 72 ABW/CEAN within two hours of
     shipment.
     3.9.3. Coordinate with CEA on all contracts that generate hazardous or industrial waste.
     3.9.4. For shipments of hazardous waste handled by Service Contract Section, package,
     mark, label and provide placards according to DOT regulations in 49 CFR Part 172.504.
  3.10. Staff Judge Advocate (OC-ALC/JA) will:
     3.10.1. Advise CEA of proper legal interpretation of hazardous waste laws and
     regulations and any changes in applicable legal requirements.
     3.10.2. Coordinate on reports, permits, permit fees and inquiries submitted to the DEQ or
     EPA concerning hazardous waste management issues.
     3.10.3. Review all proposed contracts relating to hazardous waste management,
     particularly statements of work and specifications, in the earliest stages of procurement.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                              13


     3.10.4. Provide representative to HWWG.
     3.10.5. Review modifications to this instruction and other documents pertaining to
     hazardous waste management.
     3.10.6. Handle all enforcement actions arising out of hazardous waste management
     activities, including responses to notices of violations, negotiation with regulatory
     authorities on compliance agreements and defense of Tinker AFB in litigation.
     Coordinate with higher headquarters and the Department of Justice (DOJ) as required.
  3.11. Classification Section (72 FSS/FSMCED) will:
     3.11.1. Upon request from supervisors of areas that produce hazardous waste, advise
     them of conditions that could make it necessary to describe hazardous waste managers’
     and operators’ duties in their job descriptions.
     3.11.2. If applicable, ensure supervisors properly describe duties in job descriptions and
     that necessary administrative actions are taken to properly update job descriptions.
  3.12. Bioenvironmental Engineering Services (72 AMDS/SGPB) will:
     3.12.1. Provide technical assistance and advice concerning personnel protective
     equipment and safe handling procedures at hazardous waste management sites.
     3.12.2. Provide a subject matter expert when requested to discuss chemical hazard issues
     at initial and annual hazardous waste training.
     3.12.3. Provide advice on industrial hygiene to all work areas for employee health.
     3.12.4. Provide and maintain Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS).
     3.12.5. Coordinate on establishment of hazardous waste management sites.
     3.12.6. Provide representative to the HWWG.
     3.12.7. Provide assistance in disposal of mixed waste.
  3.13. Occupational Medicine (72 MDG/SGPO) will: Ensure employees involved in the
  handling of hazardous waste receive appropriate occupational health physical examinations.
  3.14. Industrial Training Branch (72 FSS/FSDT) will: Provide training (Hazardous
  Waste Management Practices TE00139) for all personnel involved in hazardous waste
  management which enables them to perform their duties in a manner that meets Federal,
  State, DoD, Air Force and local statutes; regulations and requirements. EPA requirements
  are outlined in 40 CFR 264.16 for permitted management sites and 40 CFR 265.16 for non-
  permitted management sites. Hazardous waste generators are included by reference at 40
  CFR 262.34(a)(4). The following elements of training are considered essential:
     3.14.1. Introduction to the RCRA.
     3.14.2. Identification of hazardous waste.
     3.14.3. Accumulation point management.
     3.14.4. Container use, marking and labeling and on-base transportation.
     3.14.5. Waste turn-in procedures.
14                                                   TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


     3.14.6. Manifesting and off-base transportation of hazardous waste.
     3.14.7. Spill prevention and emergency response.
     3.14.8. Waste reduction.
     3.14.9. Personnel safety and health and fire safety.
  3.15. FSDT Instructors will:
     3.15.1. Attend formal instruction that in the initial phase acquaints the student with the
     details of the RCRA regulations in 40 CFR 260 through 279; applicable State Laws and
     regulations; DoD, Air Force and local requirements and in annual refresher classes,
     updates the student on changes to those rules. This training may be obtained through
     creditable training institutions or companies approved by 72 ABW/CEA or through AF
     Training Organizations.
  3.15.2. Review SOW involving FSDT training of contractors.
  3.16. DRMS will:
     3.16.1. Operate permitted hazardous waste storage facility for containers of hazardous
     waste.
     3.16.2. Advise generators about how and when segregation of waste streams would
     increase the probability of recycling the waste.
     3.16.3. Advise 72 ABW/CEAN when a market is available for reutilizing hazardous
     materials and wastes that are being generated.
     3.16.4. Advise 72 ABW/CEA of any changes in defense turn-in document procedures or
     in packing, marking and labeling requirements.
     3.16.5. Provide a subject matter expert, when requested, for initial and annual hazardous
     waste training to explain role of DRMS and turn-in requirements.
     3.16.6. Complete EPA Form 8700-22, Uniform Hazardous Waste Manifest for all
     shipments of Tinker AFB hazardous wastes from the DRMS storage yard and transmit a
     copy to 72 ABW/CEAN within two hours after acceptance by the transporter. If
     transporter acceptance takes place after duty hours the manifest will be delivered to the
     Fire Department, if possible, or held until the next duty day and delivered to 72
     ABW/CEAN.
     3.16.7. Request delegation of authority from 72 ABW/CEA for personnel who will
     prepare and sign Hazardous Waste Manifests and Land Disposal Restriction forms.
     Proof of training will be required to receive that delegation.
     3.16.8. Package, mark, label and offer placards (if these actions have not already been
     taken) for shipments of hazardous waste from the DRMS storage yard according to
     applicable DOT hazardous materials regulations and DRMS requirements.
     3.16.9. Ensure input from Tinker AFB operations by coordinating with 72 ABW/CEA
     and OC-ALC/JA during negotiations for hazardous waste disposal contracts.
     3.16.10. Ensure that Certificates of Disposal are deliverable items in disposal contracts.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                  15


       3.16.11. Coordinate with 72 ABW/CEAN prior to using new transporters or TSD
       facilities not listed on the Tinker AFB State Disposal Plan.
       3.16.12. Confirm that each hazardous waste shipment reached the disposal site safely
       and the disposal site received the shipment described on the manifest.
       3.16.13. Ensure compliance with the permitted storage facility requirements of the
       RCRA Part B Operating Permit, as well as EPA and State regulations.
       3.16.14. Report any inability to comply with these regulations to 72 ABW/CEA.
       3.16.15. Activate their site-specific contingency plan upon spilling a hazardous
       substance or during any other applicable emergencies.
       3.16.16. Attend initial and annual HW training, or equivalent, which enables them to
       perform their duties in a manner that meets Federal, State, DoD, Air Force and local
       laws, regulations and requirements. EPA requirements are outlined in 40 CFR 264.16 for
       permitted management sites.
       3.16.17. Appoint a UEC and Alternate.
       3.16.18. Maintain a current copy of the RCRA Part B Operating Permit for Tinker AFB,
       a copy of the base Spill Response Plan 19-2 and a copy of this instruction.
4. ENFORCEMENT: As a result of the serious consequences for hazardous waste violations,
all personnel must ensure compliance with all requirements of this instruction. This instruction
is binding on all Tinker AFB personnel including associate organizations and contractors.
   4.1. Enforcement Liability.
       4.1.1. Individual Liability. All Tinker AFB personnel, military and civilian, are subject
       to criminal prosecution by Federal, State or local authorities for violation of any
       hazardous waste laws or regulations. Military personnel are also subject to prosecution
       by the Air Force under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, and civilian personnel are
       subject to Air Force disciplinary action under civilian personnel regulations.
       4.1.2. Supervisory Liability. Even if they do not directly commit a criminal offense,
       supervisors may be liable, if the violation occurred in their supervisory area, they had the
       power to prevent it and they failed to act.
       4.1.3. Organizational Liability. Violations of hazardous waste laws or regulations can
       result in enforcement action against the Air Force, including the assessment of civil fines
       and penalties. Under the Federal Facility Compliance Act, the Air Force can be fined up
       to $37,500 per day per violation by State or Federal regulators. Air Force policy is that
       the civil fines and penalties for violations are to be paid from the responsible
       organization’s budget. Personnel who cause the Air Force to be subject to civil action for
       environmental violations are themselves subject to disciplinary action.
   4.2. Enforcement Procedures.
       4.2.1. Wherever possible, violations of hazardous waste laws, regulations or this
       instruction should be corrected on the spot. Minor violations that can be corrected
       immediately and are not recurring do not necessarily warrant investigation or
       enforcement action.
 16                                                    TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


       4.2.2. More serious or continuing violations may be reported to 72 ABW/CEAN,
       OC-ALC/JAV or OSI. Observed or reported violations will be investigated by these
       offices to determine the facts and individuals responsible.
       4.2.3. If serious or continuing violations have occurred, the appropriate levels of
       command will determine whether disciplinary action is warranted.
5. WASTE MANAGEMENT INVENTORIES. Proper hazardous waste management and
tracking requires several types of inventories. Inventory information frequently changes so a
concerted effort must be made to keep them current. Inventory information may be obtained
from the HWTS.
   5.1. Waste Stream Inventory. An inventory of waste streams can be obtained by
   generating a report from HMMS. Reports can be generated by organization, building and
   profile.
       5.1.1. Specific Information. For each drum of a waste stream, additional information
       such as EPA waste codes, Oklahoma Waste Stream number, Disposal Route and cost can
       be found in the Hazardous Materials Management System (HMMS).
       5.1.2. Summary Information. For each waste stream, the quantity disposed by year, by
       specific shop or by process can be obtained by generating a report from HMMS. The
       total disposal cost or total number of drums may also be obtained.
   5.2. Profile Sheets. For each waste stream identified that is disposed of through DRMS, a
   DRMS Form 1930, or equivalent format, will be completed and a copy given to DRMS. The
   DRMS Form 1930 may also be used for waste streams disposed of through contractors or a
   contractor prepared profile. A copy of all profile sheets will be reviewed for currency at least
   annually and updated as necessary. Update of profile sheets will be accomplished by 72
   ABW/CEAN with input from UECs as required.
   5.3. State Disposal Plan. Using information from the Waste Stream Inventory, the Tinker
   AFB Disposal Plan, No. 55066, will be kept current by coordinating with DEQ.
   Coordination with DEQ will be accomplished by 72 ABW/CEAN.
6. APPROVAL TO ACCUMULATE HAZARDOUS WASTE AND RECEIVE
CONTAINERS. RCRA, Tinker AFB’s RCRA Permit and Air Force instructions require
hazardous waste to be tracked from the point of generation to ultimate disposal, or cradle-to-
grave. Because improper management of hazardous waste could result in serious consequences
to Tinker AFB, and to the individuals involved, any accumulation must be approved through the
following procedures:
   6.1. Adding new material to existing waste stream. Contact the organization's UEC and
   identify the requirement for a new material. UEC will contact 72 ABW/CEAN to see if a
   new IAP must be established or if any waste can be incorporated into an existing waste
   stream.
Note: Many waste streams have been in existence prior to this regulation and were granted
approval by 72 ABW/CEAN, formerly EMOE, in a letter to the UECs.
   6.2. Obtain Approval from 72 ABW/CEAN. Contact the organization’s UEC and identify
   the requirement to generate a new waste stream.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                              17


   6.3. Requesting approval. The UEC of the organization generating a new waste stream
   shall apply to 72 ABW/CEAN in writing for approval to accumulate by providing the
   following:
       6.3.1. Name and address of generating organization.
       6.3.2. Description of waste stream including all applicable MSDSs.
       6.3.3. HPP approval for hazardous chemicals in waste.
       6.3.4. Process generating waste stream.
       6.3.5. Volume estimated to be generated each month.
       6.3.6. Type of management site planned.
       6.3.7. Management device to be used.
       6.3.8. Location of accumulation.
       6.3.9. Name and telephone of site HW manager.
   6.4. Wastes will be characterized to determine the nature and extent of any potential
   hazard. All waste streams at Tinker AFB must be characterized by 72 ABW/CEPV or
   contract laboratory to determine if they are hazardous wastes and if so, what type. This may
   be done by chemical analysis or by generator’s knowledge. Characterization is based on the
   concept that each waste stream is generated by a specific process. Therefore, the
   characterization process involves correlating waste streams with specific processes.
   6.5. Site inspection. Upon receipt of the above information, 72 ABW/CEAN will schedule
   a site visit with the UEC. 72 ABW/CEAN will request a follow-up inspection by 72
   AMDS/SGPB, 72 ABW/SEG and/or 72 ABW/CEF if there are concerns with the location of
   the site. 72 ABW/CEAN will consolidate comments and respond to the generating
   organization’s UEC stating one of the following:
       6.5.1. Full approval to operate.
       6.5.2. Approval to operate (with stated modifications promptly implemented).
       6.5.3. A cease and desist order effective until stated requirements are met.
   6.6. Approval by 72 ABW/CEAN. When approval to accumulate is given, 72
   ABW/CEAN will enter appropriate information into the Hazardous Waste Tracking System
   (HWTS). This information will be used to print labels when a drum is requested from the
   HWMF.
   6.7. Approval documentation. The HW Manager of the generating organization shall
   maintain an “Approval Package” which will consist of the letter of application, supporting
   information, letter of authorization and any modifications.
Note: Many waste streams have been in existence prior to this regulation and were granted
approval by 72 ABW/CEAN, formerly EMOE, in a letter to the UECs.
   6.8. Changes. Any changes that may affect an approval package will be coordinated in
   writing with 72 ABW/CEAN.
 18                                                   TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


   6.9. Upon receipt of “Approval To Operate,” generating organizations may obtain containers
   from the HWMF by completing all items except 1 and 6 on OC-ALC Form 266, Serialized
   Container Receipt, and presenting it to the HWMF by phoning in the request to the HWMF
   contractor at 734-3285 or by using HWTS.
   6.10. If prior arrangements have been made, a newly issued container will be delivered by
   the HWMF when a full drum is being picked up. However, the generator is responsible for
   ensuring that containers are available at the management site.
7. WASTE MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES.
7.1. Waste Collection
       7.1.1. Record Keeping for IAPs, WSAs, HWASs and IRLs
          7.1.1.1. During the first week of each month, the appropriate described forms, used
          the previous month, will be sent to the UEC.
          7.1.1.2. The supervisor of the generating unit shall review and sign the forms before
          they are sent to the UEC.
          7.1.1.3. Copies of the forms shall be maintained by the generating unit for at least
          one year and be readily available for inspection.
          7.1.1.4. The UEC will review the original forms for problem trends, maintain them in
          an orderly manner for three years and keep them on hand for inspection.
          7.1.1.5. A copy of the Approval Packages shall be readily available for inspection at
          the generating unit.
Note: Many waste streams have been in existence prior to this regulation and were granted
approval by 72 ABW/CEAN, formerly EMOE, in a letter to the UECs.
          7.1.1.6. The supervisor will maintain job descriptions and training records until
          closure for all current personnel and for three years for former personnel.
Note: All forms and approval packages may be scanned onto computer disks for easy access
and convenience.
   7.2. Container Management:
   7.2.1. Accumulation sites must comply with applicable Federal, State and local regulations
   including requirements stated in this instruction.
       7.2.2. All accumulation site borders must be at least 50 feet inside Tinker AFB
       boundaries.
       7.2.3. The storage of flammable or combustible liquids shall not physically obstruct a
       means of egress from a building or area.
       7.2.4. Secondary containment may be required if inspections reveal a need for more
       control. See OC-ALC-TAFBI 32-7006, Secondary Containment Requirements.
       7.2.5. Whenever possible use serialized containers 55 gallons or less in capacity from the
       HWMF with HWTS generated labels. OC-ALC Form 0-141 is acceptable when HWTS
       is inoperable.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                 19


     7.2.6. If the waste being contained has a Volatile Organic Compound (VOC)
     concentration greater than or equal to 100 parts per million by weight (ppmw) the
     container must meet DOT specifications for transport of that waste.
     7.2.7. Container must be in good condition, which means no severe rusting, no sharp-
     edged creases or dents, no bulging heads caused by over-pressuring a container (usually
     from overfilling) and no severe structural defects.
     7.2.8. If a container is in poor condition or begins to leak, the HW must be immediately
     transferred to another container or over-packed. Containers with pools of HW on the top
     must be decontaminated or over-packed. Implement the spill response plan if necessary.
     Over-pack drums can be obtained from the HWMF. Ensure that labels and markings on
     the over-pack are identical to those on the leaking container.
     7.2.9. Container (or liner) must be compatible with the waste being contained.
     7.2.10. Container will be under control of the waste manager of the generating
     organization.
     7.2.11. Each container will be designated for waste generated by a specific process. No
     other wastes or materials will be placed in a designated container. Contents of container
     must agree with Profile Waste Stream for which the container was issued.
     7.2.12. Container must be closed except when adding or transferring waste, or analyzing
     contents for waste characterization.
     7.2.13. Container must not be handled or moved from place-to-place in a manner that
     may cause them to rupture or leak.
     7.2.14. Never fill container holding liquids to more than 90 percent capacity (four inches
     from top for a 55-gallon drum).
     7.2.15. Never fill containers such that the weight limits specified by DOT in 49 CFR 170
     series is exceeded (a 55-gallon metal drum should not exceed 800 lbs.).
     7.2.16. A funnel may be left in a container bung if it is attached as an integral part of the
     container (such as with screw threads) and it has a lid that can be closed and latched.
     7.2.17. Container holding hazardous waste must be placed vertically and be separated
     from the floor by pallets, enviropacs, wheeled dollies or other means.
     7.2.18. A waste that is incompatible with any other waste or material that is placed such
     that contact between them might occur during a mutual spill must be separated or
     protected from contact by a dike, berm, wall or other device.
     7.2.19. All sealing mechanisms (locking rings, bung caps, bolts and nuts) will be
     installed and tightened prior to turn-in to the HWMF.
     7.2.20. Ensure container obtained from the HWMF is correctly labeled. It is the
     responsibility of the using organization to ensure the container is correctly labeled. If a
     container is issued under one container but is needed for another waste stream, the using
     organization shall contact the HWMF for a new label. The using organization is
     responsible for coming to the HWMF to obtain the new label. If there are container
     compatibility issues between the waste streams, a new container will be issued.
 20                                                   TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


       7.2.21. On the date the container becomes full, the IAP HW Manager must mark the
       “Filled-Date” on the containers label.
       7.2.22. The IAP HW Manager must arrange for, and ensure that, container from the
       HWMF is returned within 72 hours of the filled-date. Use of the HWMF drum pick-up
       service does not relieve the HW Manager of this responsibility. This is a strict legal
       requirement that must be planned for and observed in all cases. Plan ahead for three-day
       weekends! If necessary, turn the container in early, even if not completely full. If the
       IAP HW Manager is not available, supervisors must ensure turn-in requirement is met.
       7.2.23. Prior to turning in a container that has been used during an emergency clean-up
       operation, notify the UEC, 72 ABW/CEAN and the HWMF that the container is not
       labeled correctly and/or is not serialized.
       7.2.24. Process workers who add waste to a container must inform the HW Manager
       when a container is full.
       7.2.25. Containers will be bonded when flammable liquids are transferred from one
       metal container to another metal container.
       7.2.26. If solids containing flammable liquids are to be placed in plastic bags or directly
       into plastic containers, then the plastic bags or plastic containers must be anti-static.
   7.3. Safety and Preparedness:
       7.3.1. A site containing flammable wastes must be either serviced by automatic
       sprinklers or have the authorized number of Class ABC portable fire extinguishers within
       easy access unless the Fire Department specifies differently.
       7.3.2. An internal communication or alarm system will be provided within easy access
       distance to warn personnel of an emergency situation.
       7.3.3. A telephone or similar device capable of summoning emergency assistance from
       the local fire department or response team will be within easy access distance.
7.4. Training: All personnel involved in hazardous waste management will attend a formal
training course within three months of their designations and receive on-the-job instructions to
acquaint them with the training elements outlined in AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, and how
they apply to the their duties. Personnel may contact 72 ABW/CEAN for potential sources for
the necessary training.
7.5. Closure of Collection Site:
       7.5.1. When operations cease at a hazardous waste storage area, all contaminated
       equipment, structures and soil will be properly disposed of or decontaminated.
       7.5.2. 72 ABW/CEAN will be notified in writing at least one month prior to closure of a
       container operation and be supplied with a closure plan at least three months prior to
       closure of a tank operation.
   7.6. Collection Point (CP) Operating Requirements:
       7.6.1. Collection Point (CP). Some organizations at Tinker AFB manage a particular
       process at several different locations, each of which generates only small amounts of the
       same hazardous waste. It would be wasteful of space and inefficient in time and
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                              21


     resources to maintain a full-size 55-gallon drum at each location according to full IAP
     rules. This management method provides for small containers, 10-gallons or less in size,
     to collect those wastes at each location and then be emptied into a centrally located IAP,
     controlled by that organization, at the end of each work shift or when full, whichever
     comes first. Basic IAP rules apply to CPs such as: a sound closed container, labeled with
     contents, isolated if incompatible and operator controlled.
        7.6.1.1. Physical Plan:
            7.6.1.1.1. CPs are to be used only when accumulation in a 55-gallon drum would
            require an unreasonable length of time to fill (more than one year) or where small
            amounts of waste are being generated continuously and it would be unduly
            burdensome to interrupt the work to transport that waste to the IAP.
            7.6.1.1.2. Small closeable containers of 10-gallons or less are to be used.
            7.6.1.1.3. A conveniently accessible IAP must be designated as the receiving site
            for the collection point.
        7.6.1.2. Procedures for Containers:
            7.6.1.2.1. The contents of containers will be transferred to the designated IAP at
            the end of each work shift, workday or when full, whichever comes first.
            7.6.1.2.2. Marking and Labeling: The contents of containers or the words
            “Hazardous Waste” will be identified on the containers with easily readable
            letters.
        7.6.1.3. Inspections: The generating unit supervisor will include CPs in a daily
        operational checklist. CP management will also be included on periodic 72
        ABW/CEAN and UEC inspections.
  7.7. IAP Operating Requirements:
     7.7.1. This management method is based on the EPA Regulations at 40 CFR
     262.34(c)(1) and (2). Each container being used to accumulate hazardous waste is
     considered an IAP, unless it is a CP. Most of the hazardous waste generated by normal,
     daily operation is initially collected and managed in this manner. The number and
     location of IAPs at Tinker AFB changes frequently as workloads and operations change.
     The usual container at an IAP is a 55-gallon drum DOT approved for the waste it
     contains. Management procedures for IAPs include written weekly inspections and
     reporting. When the drum has been filled, operators are instructed to seal the drum and
     move it to the HWMF within three days (72 hours).
     7.7.2. IAP HW Manager will:
        7.7.2.1. Perform written weekly inspections using TINKER AFB Form 487, Initial
        Accumulation Point Management Aid. Part I of TINKER AFB Form 487 may be
        used to document inspection of the management site but an inventory of each
        container must be maintained in Part II. Weekly denotes once per working week.
        7.7.2.2. Immediately inform supervisor, UEC or 72 ABW/CEAN if problems
        threaten compliance with this instruction.
 22                                                     TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


         7.7.3. Procedures for Container:
            7.7.3.1. The IAP will be under the direct control of the operator who generates the
            waste and near enough to the generation point to be convenient.
            7.7.3.2. Hazard Labels: Before accumulation begins, the generator will ensure
            appropriate hazard labels are affixed to containers as specified in 49 CFR 172.400.
NOTE: If the generating process has been characterized as a producer of hazardous waste, the
label title should read: “Hazardous Waste Drum Label.”
            7.7.3.3. If significant events (such as spills) occur, a description of actions taken to
            return the IAP to compliance shall be recorded on TINKER AFB Form 487. This
            information will satisfy inspection documentation for that week.
      7.7.4. Physical Plan:
            7.7.4.1. An Emergency Response Plan will be available at the IAP and a sign
            containing spill procedures will be posted in a prominent location near the
            management device which should be activated in the event of a spill. (See example in
            Table 2).

Table 2. Example Emergency Response Plan
                      HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT SITE
                                   DANGER!
                           IN CASE OF FIRE OR SPILL:

 1.   Sound Alarm: Voice Call or Mechanical Device.
 2.   Evacuate Affected Area.
 3.   If Possible, Shut Down Equipment when Evacuating.
 4.   CALL FIRE DEPARTMENT: DIAL: 911 (Give Type, Location, Size, Your Name)
 5.   Inform Supervisor.
 6.   Contain Spill if it can be done Safely.
 7.   Conduct Roll Call, and report to Fire Department On-Scene Commander.

            7.7.4.2. An operational checklist (see Table 3, next page) will be posted near the IAP
            to assist in compliance. All personnel working in the area shall be briefed on the
            checklist items as a form of awareness training. The supervisor and the IAP HW
            Manager will compare site conditions with checklist items daily.
      7.8. Waste Staging Area (WSA) Operating Requirements
         7.8.1. Waste Staging Area (WSA). Multiple IAPs are collocated in a single storage
         area. The generator must ensure that each drum is dedicated to a distinctly different waste
         stream and that incompatible wastes are separated by three feet or separate containment
         devices.
         7.8.2. Management of Holding Device. In addition to the IAP operating requirements
         the following also apply:
            7.8.2.1. One Hazardous Waste Manager will control all containers in the WSA.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                  23


Table 3. Operational Checklist Initial Accumulation Point
                                  OPERATIONAL CHECKLIST
                              INITIAL ACCUMULATION POINT
1. Container has no leaks, dents, rusting or evidence of excess internal pressure.
2. Container is closed. (No visible opening)
3. No waste is visible outside of container.
4. Support device prevents container/floor contact.
5. Flammable liquid transfer is accomplished between bonded containers.
6. Plastic bags used to collect flammable waste are anti-static type.
7. Ensure integrity of secondary containment (if required).
8. Hazard label is visible on container.
9. Contents label is visible, legible and agrees with waste in container.
10. Filled-Date is marked on full container.
11. Filled-Date is less than three (3) days old.
12. Container with filled-date is sealed.
NOTE: Minor dents and rusting of containers are acceptable as long as the structural integrity of
the container is maintained.
           7.8.2.2. No more than four 55-gallon drums will be placed on a single pallet.
           7.8.2.3. When containers are moved while on pallets, those pallets shall be the larger
           and sturdier “pallatiers” measuring approximately 49 inches by 56 inches in size.
           7.8.2.4. A waste that is incompatible with any other waste or material that is placed
           such that contact between them might occur during a mutual spill must be separated
           or protected from contact by a dike, berm, wall or other device.
   7.9. Hazardous Waste Accumulation Site (HWAS) Operating Requirements:
       7.9.1. HWAS for Drums. This management method is based on the regulations at 40
       CFR 262.34(a). The most active HWAS at Tinker AFB is the HWMF. Its purpose is to
       control the distribution of containers, serve as a central assembly location for containers
       from IAPs, analyze contents of containers to ensure proper labeling and prepare
       documents for turn-in of waste containers to the PSF. Other HWASs at Tinker AFB
       include tanks in the Chemical Cleaning Shop, a staging area for the plating shop
       renovation projects where waste is collected in gondolas and an area to hold remediation
       wastes that cannot be removed immediately. The number of accumulation sites varies
       but is normally less than 10.
           7.9.1.1. Safety and Preparedness:
               7.9.1.1.1. A waste that is incompatible with any other waste or material that is
               placed such that contact between them might occur during a mutual spill must be
               separated or protected from contact by a dike, berm, wall or other device.
               7.9.1.1.2. Spill control and decontamination equipment in good working order,
               including protective clothing, will be available for immediate use, as well as water
               at sufficient volume and pressure to supply required equipment.
               7.9.1.1.3. All required emergency equipment must be tested and maintained to
24                                                   TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


        ensure its reliability during an incident.
        7.9.1.1.4. Each HWAS will prepare a Site Specific Contingency Plan (SSCP)
        indicating preferred evacuation route; location of communications, fire and spill
        control equipment and names and phone numbers of emergency response
        personnel. The plan will be reviewed annually and updated as needed for
        inclusion in OC-ALC Plan 19-2.
        7.9.1.1.5. A copy of the SSCP will be posted at or near emergency
        communication devices.
        7.9.1.1.6. Emergency Response Plans will be posted in prominent locations in the
        working area (See Table 7.2).
        7.9.1.1.7. A freeze-proof emergency eye wash and deluge shower will be located
        so that they can be reached within 10 seconds of a harmful exposure at the site.
        7.9.1.1.8. Outdoor areas where flammables are managed will be clearly marked
        and signs indicating “No Smoking Within 50 Feet” will be prominently posted.
     7.9.1.2. Physical Plan:
        7.9.1.2.1. Sufficient aisle space will be provided to allow unobstructed movement
        of personnel and spill or fire control equipment to any part of the site. The
        following rules are based on AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated
        Occupational Safety Standard, Chap 22.
        7.9.1.2.2. Outdoor storage container piles will be separated by at least five feet.
        Also, within 200 feet of each container, there will be a 12-foot wide access way to
        permit approach of fire control apparatus.
        7.9.1.2.3. Indoor storage main aisles will be at least eight feet wide and side
        aisles at least four feet wide. No container will be more than 12 feet from an
        aisle. All container piles will be separated by at least four feet.
        7.9.1.2.4. The allowable height of container piles is a function of the
        flammability of the material being stored.
     7.9.1.3. HWAS Manager Responsibilities:
        7.9.1.3.1. Perform daily inspections to ensure HWAS is in good operational
        condition. An operational checklist may be posted to assist in main inspection
        criteria.
        7.9.1.3.2. Conduct written weekly and monthly inspections for containers on
        TINKER AFB Form 486, Accumulation Site Inspection Checklist (Containers),
        and daily and monthly inspections for tanks on TINKER AFB Form 485,
        Accumulation Site Inspection Checklist (Tanks).
        7.9.1.3.3. Maintain an inventory for containers which may be generated in
        HWTS for Accumulation Sites and an inventory for tanks on OC-ALC Form 132,
        Tank Inventory Log for Accumulation Sites.
        7.9.1.3.4. Ensure no HW remains on-site longer than 90 days. Containers may go
        to DRMS or an off-site TSDF; tank contents must be sent to an off-site TSDF.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                              25


           7.9.1.3.5. Ensure that communications equipment, showers, eyewashes, PPE,
           spill clean-up tools, internal alarm, fire suppression equipment and
           decontamination equipment are operational at all times and that SSCP is posted
           and current.
           7.9.1.3.6. Activate Spill Plan as necessary if spills or leaks occur.
           7.9.1.3.7. Immediately notify supervisor, UEC or 72 ABW/CEAN if problems
           threaten compliance with this instruction.
           7.9.1.3.8. Ensure that immediately upon arrival at the HWAS, the “Date
           Received by HWMF” line on the label attached to containers shall be annotated
           with the current date. (That date is the “Accumulation Start Date” for that
           container).
           7.9.1.3.9. Insure that proper eye and body protection will be worn when opening
           sealed holding devices for testing or transfer of contents.
     7.9.2. Procedures for Tanks:
        7.9.2.1. Each tank will be marked with the following information in easily readable
        letters on an easy to view part of the above ground area of the tank, or for an
        underground tank, on an aluminum or plastic sign placed above the tank:
           7.9.2.1.1. Contents (include percentages if mixture).
           7.9.2.1.2. Functional address symbol.
           7.9.2.1.3. HW Manager’s name and telephone number.
           7.9.2.1.4. The words “HAZARDOUS WASTE.”
           7.9.2.1.5. The “Accumulation Start Date.”
        7.9.2.2. Each tank cap must be closed except when being filled, drained or inspected
        by authorized personnel.
        7.9.2.3. HW will not be placed in a tank if it is incompatible with the waste
        previously held unless the tank has been completely rinsed between uses. The rinsing
        must be recorded on OC-ALC Form H-485, Accumulation Site Inspection Checklist
        (Tanks) and TINKER AFB Form 132, Tank Inventory Log for Accumulation Sites.
        7.9.2.4. The appropriate controls and practices must be used to prevent spills and
        overflows from tank or secondary containment systems. These include at a
        minimum:
           7.9.2.4.1. Spill prevention controls (check valves, dry disconnect couplings).
           7.9.2.4.2. Overfill prevention controls (level sensing devices, high level alarms,
           automatic feed cutoff or bypass to a standby tank that exceeds the volume of the
           top two feet).
           7.9.2.4.3. Maintenance of sufficient freeboard in uncovered tanks to prevent
           overtopping by wave or wind action or by precipitation.
        7.9.2.5. An ignitable or reactive waste can be placed in a tank only if:
26                                                TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


        7.9.2.5.1. It is managed in a way that it cannot ignite or react.
        7.9.2.5.2. The tank is used solely for emergencies.
     7.9.2.6. Existing tank systems that do not have a secondary containment system must
     have a written assessment completed and certified by a professional engineer attesting
     to the tank system’s integrity. This assessment must determine that the tank system is
     adequately designed and has sufficient structural strength and compatibility with the
     wastes to be stored to ensure that it will not collapse, rupture or fail.
        7.9.2.6.1. At a minimum, secondary containment systems for tanks require the
        following:
            7.9.2.6.1.1. Constructed of or lined with materials that are compatible with
            the wastes to be placed in the tank system.
            7.9.2.6.1.2. Sufficient strength and thickness to prevent failure due to
            pressure gradient, physical contact with the waste to which they are exposed,
            climatic conditions, the stress of installation and the stress of daily operation.
            7.9.2.6.1.3. Placed on a foundation or base capable of providing support to
            the secondary containment system and resistance to pressure gradients above
            and below the system and capable of preventing failure due to settlement,
            compression or uplift.
            7.9.2.6.1.4. A leak detection system that is designed and operated to detect
            the failure of either the primary and secondary containment structure or
            system or any release of hazardous waste or accumulated liquid in the
            secondary containment system within 24 hours.
            7.9.2.6.1.5. Sloped or otherwise designed or operated to drain and remove
            liquids resulting from leaks, spills or precipitation. Such liquids must be
            removed within 24 hours.
            7.9.2.6.1.6. Sufficient capacity to contain 100 percent of the volume of the
            largest tank within its boundary.
            7.9.2.6.1.7. One or more of the following devices:
              7.9.2.6.1.7.1. A liner (external to the tank).
              7.9.2.6.1.7.2. A vault.
              7.9.2.6.1.7.3. A double-walled tank.
              7.9.2.6.1.7.4. An equivalent device approved by the CEA Division.
     7.9.2.7. Procedures for a new tank system and components:
        7.9.2.7.1. A new tank system must obtain a written assessment to be reviewed
        and certified by a registered professional engineer, attesting that the system has
        sufficient structural integrity and is acceptable for storing and treating of
        hazardous waste. This assessment must have at a minimum:
            7.9.2.7.1.1. Design standards according to which the tanks will be
            constructed, which may include the following items, but not limited to:
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                 27


                 7.9.2.7.1.1.1. Tanks will be designed with structurally sound walls and
                 supports.
                 7.9.2.7.1.1.2. Closed tanks will be designed with vents or other ways of
                 controlling pressure to ensure they do not collapse or rupture; the minimum
                 shell thickness is based on width, height and construction materials of the
                 tank, plus specific gravity of the waste to be stored.
                 7.9.2.7.1.1.3. Tanks should be designed to allow removal of all waste, since
                 at closure, all hazardous waste, hazardous waste residues, discharge control
                 equipment and discharge confinement structures must be removed.
               7.9.2.7.1.2. Hazardous characteristics of the wastes to be handled.
               7.9.2.7.1.3. Factors affecting the potential for corrosion in the exterior shell or
               external metal parts of the tank system which are in contact with soil or water.
               7.9.2.7.1.4. Design or operational measures that protect the system against
               potential damage by vehicular traffic when placed underground.
               7.9.2.7.1.5. Design considerations must show that:
                 7.9.2.7.1.5.1. The foundation will support full tanks.
                 7.9.2.7.1.5.2. The tank system will be anchored to prevent flotation or
                 dislodgment.
                 7.9.2.7.1.5.3. The tank system will withstand the effects of frost heave.
               7.9.2.7.1.6. Proper procedures must be used during installation to prevent
               damage.
               7.9.2.7.1.7. When placed underground, new tank systems, including
               components and piping, must be provided backfill material that is a non-
               corrosive, porous substance.
               7.9.2.7.1.8. All new tank systems and ancillary equipment must be tested for
               tightness and necessary repairs completed before being covered, enclosed or
               placed in use.
               7.9.2.7.1.9. Ancillary equipment must be supported and protected against
               physical damage and excessive stress due to settlement, vibration, expansion
               or contraction.
               7.9.2.7.1.10. Corrosion protection must be provided to protect the tank
               system based on the factors determined according to the potential for
               corrosion in the exterior shell or external metal parts of the tank system which
               are in contact with soil or water.
               7.9.2.7.1.11. Written statements certifying proper installation, testing and
               repairs of tank systems must be kept on file by the organization operating the
               tank system.
     7.9.3. Inspections:
 28                                                    TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


           7.9.3.1. An operating checklist will be posted at the HWAS to assist in main
           inspection criteria. All personnel working in the area shall be briefed on the checklist
           items (See Table 4, next page). The supervisor of the generating unit and the HWAS
           HW Manager will ensure on a daily basis that conditions at the site comply with the
           checklist.
           7.9.3.2. Containers:
              7.9.3.2.1. At least once per week appropriate information will be recorded on
              TINKER AFB Form 486, Accumulation Site Inspection Checklist (Containers).
              7.9.3.2.2. Part I of TINKER AFB Form 486 will be completed each week, except
              the last week of each month, and Part II will be completed during the last week of
              each month.
           7.9.3.3. Tanks:
              7.9.3.3.1. Part I of TINKER AFB Form 485, Accumulation Site Inspection
              Checklist (Tanks), will be annotated daily.
              7.9.3.3.2. During the last week of the month, Part II of TINKER AFB Form 485
              will be completed.

Table 4. Operational Checklist Accumulation Site
                                  OPERATIONAL CHECKLIST
                                     ACCUMULATION SITE
1. No leaks, spills or evidence of excess pressure are visible around containers or tanks.
2. Containers and Tanks are sealed except when sampling or transferring waste.
3. Hazardous Waste Containers and Tanks are labeled “HAZARDOUS WASTE.”
4. Containers are all marked with “Received Date,” tanks with “Accumulation Start Date.”
5. Received dates and ASDs are all less than 90 days old.
6. Incompatible wastes are separated.
7. Secondary containment is sound.
8. Aisle space is sufficient to allow passage of emergency equipment.
9. Site Specific Contingency Plan is prominently posted.
10. Internal Communication or Alarm System is operational.
11. Emergency Assistance Summoning Device is operational.
12. Fire extinguishers are operational.
13. “No Smoking Within 50 Feet” signs are posted near flammable wastes.
14. Emergency eyewashes and shower are operational.
15. Spill control equipment is readily available.
       7.9.4. Inventory Control:
           7.9.4.1. Containers. HWAS will be inventoried bi-monthly and checked with the
           computer-generated inventory to ensure accuracy.
           7.9.4.2. Tanks. TINKER AFB Form 132, Tank Inventory Log for Accumulation
           Sites, will be completed.
       7.9.5. Closure of a Hazardous Waste Accumulation Site:
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                 29


         7.9.5.1. When operations cease at an HWAS, all contaminated equipment, structures
         and soil will be properly disposed of or decontaminated.
         7.9.5.2. If tank systems are involved, a closure plan will be submitted to 72
         ABW/CEAN describing how the tanks, containment systems, associated equipment
         and surrounding soil will be disposed of or decontaminated.
  7.10. IRL Operating Requirements:
  7.10.1. Several operations take place at Tinker AFB where large amounts of hazardous
  waste are generated in a very short span of time. Examples include the cleaning out of a
  process tank where the operable solutions have become unusable or a sludge has precipitated
  from the solutions, cleaning of paint application or stripping facilities where sludge have
  collected and remediation sites where contaminated soil and debris have been displaced from
  their normal situation. The solutions, sludge, soil or debris may be loaded directly into a tank
  truck or gondola and transported to an off-site facility. Alternatively, the waste may be
  placed in containers and moved to the HWMF. Removal usually takes place within a few
  hours after the material becomes a waste but never more than three days which is the
  deadline for an excess of 55-gallons (40 CFR 262.34(c)(2)).
     7.10.2. Physical Plan. Sufficient space must be allowed to transfer waste into a truck or
     containers without blocking emergency response or contingency egress routes.
     7.10.3. Management of Holding Devices:
         7.10.3.1. Wastes will be placed either in containers that meet DOT specifications for
         those wastes (See 49 CFR 173) or trucks that have proper licenses.
         7.10.3.2. All holding devices shall be removed from the IRL within three days (72
         hours) after having waste placed into them.
         7.10.3.3. Before moving holding devices from the site, all sealing mechanisms
         (locking rings, bung caps, bolts and nuts) will be installed and tightened.
     7.10.4. Waste Identification. Wastes being transported directly to off-site TSDFs shall
     be identified in accordance with Attachment 1 of this instruction before transfer into a
     holding device. Those being moved to the HWMF in containers may be analyzed there
     or at the IRL, whichever is most practical.
     7.10.5. Marking and Labeling:
         7.10.5.1. Containers being shipped off-site will be affixed with a completed HW
         shipping label and proper hazard labels. The date of waste transfer into the containers
         will be the “Accumulation Start Date.”
         7.10.5.2. For those containers being moved to the HWMF, the date of waste transfer
         into the containers shall be marked as the “Certified Filled Date” on container label.
         7.10.5.3. If the shipment weighs more than 1000 pounds, the transporter must be
         offered DOT approved placards. See 49 CFR Part 172.500.
     7.10.6. Inspections. When waste is transferred into holding devices, Part I of TINKER
     AFB Form 487 will be completed by monitor to indicate any spills, leaks, damage to
     equipment or other problems that occurred and the corrective action taken.
 30                                                    TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


       7.10.7. Inventory Control:
           7.10.7.1. When waste is transferred into holding devices, Part II of TINKER AFB
           Form 487 will be completed. Leave “Replacement Serial Number” blank. List all
           drums under “Container Serial Number” continuing into Part III if necessary. If
           waste is placed directly into a truck make note in Part III stating (1) “name of
           transporter” and (2) “vehicle license tag number.”
           7.10.7.2. When hazardous waste is shipped off-site it must be accompanied by a
           properly completed and signed Uniform Waste Manifest and applicable LDRs.
           Coordinate with 72 ABW/CEAN when preparing this document.
           7.10.7.3. 72 ABW/CEAN will file and maintain manifests.
           7.10.7.4. The generating organization shall notify 72 ABW/CEAN in writing if the
           IRL will no longer be used.
8. PROCEDURES          FOR      TURN-IN        OF      HAZARDOUS         WASTE         BY
GENERATORS. When a generator releases immediate control (but not ultimate responsibility)
of a hazardous waste to another person, a “Trail of Records” must be established using the
following procedures:
NOTE: All Tinker AFB organizations will design their hazardous waste management program
around use of the HWMF.
   8.1. Container Turn-in through the HWMF.
       8.1.1. Turn-in of Waste in 55-gallon or Less Drums Obtained from the
       HWMF. NOTE: The following assumes that approval to accumulate has been obtained
       and serialized drums have been issued.
           8.1.1.1. When a container becomes full, the generator shall mark the Filled Date on
           the container label, using an indelible pen, and on TINKER AFB Form 487, Part II.
           Sealing mechanisms shall be installed and tightened.
           8.1.1.2. The container will be moved to the HWMF within three days (72 hours) after
           the Certified Filled Date between the hours of 0700 and 1500 on weekdays. Properly
           trained personnel, using safe handling practices and proper equipment, will
           accomplish movement of containers.
NOTE: Partially filled drums will be accepted only in unusual circumstances such as: closure
of a management site, spill clean-up, cessation of generating process, to avoid violation of three-
day turn-in rule or full drum would have excessive weight. If this becomes necessary, note
reason for partially filled drum in Part III (Comment) of TINKER AFB Form 487.
           8.1.1.3. If the HWMF drum pick-up service is used, the generator must call the
           HWMF at 734-3285 no later than 1400 hours to receive same day service.
NOTE: Use of the HWMF pick-up service does not relieve the generator’s responsibility to
meet the three-day limit. Plan ahead for long weekends! Drums with Filled Dates on Friday
must arrive at the HWMF by Monday!
           8.1.1.4. If a replacement drum is needed, call the HWMF at 734-3285.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                               31


NOTE: If prior arrangements are made, a newly issued container will be delivered by the
HWMF when a full container is picked up. However, the generator is responsible for ensuring
that containers are available at the management site.
       8.1.2. Turn-in of Wastes not in Drums Obtained from the HWMF. NOTE: The
       intention of this paragraph is for unusual circumstances such as spills of unknown
       materials; clean-out of a chemical storage cabinet; hazardous materials in open,
       partially emptied or leaking containers or other unexpected generation of waste.
          8.1.2.1. Characterize the Waste: NOTE: Until characterization is complete waste
          must be contained using rules in Sections 7 and 8. Waste containers will also be
          labeled with a descriptive name.
              8.1.2.1.1. Gather the following information: Name of Material, Manufacturer,
              MSDS or chemical analysis, Quantity, Weight of packaged material if possible,
              Point of Contact, Routing Symbol, Telephone Extension, Building and Location.
              8.1.2.1.2. If MSDS or chemical analysis is not available arrange for chemical
              analysis as outlined in Attachment 1 to this instruction.
          8.1.2.2. Obtain Turn-in Instructions:
              8.1.2.2.1. Notify UEC for coordination with 72 ABW/CEAN.
              8.1.2.2.2. UEC delivers characterization information to 72 ABW/CEAN.
              8.1.2.2.3. 72 ABW/CEAN prepares turn-in documentation and advises on
              packaging requirements.
          8.1.2.3. Package as Instructed and Turn-In Waste. Options Include:
              8.1.2.3.1. Obtain drum from HWMF, place waste into drum and return to
              HWMF. (Mark Filled Date).
              8.1.2.3.2. DRMS contractor may come to site and package waste.
              8.1.2.3.3. Use some container other than a 55-gallon drum.
              8.1.2.3.4. If waste stream is large and bulky, provisions in the Bulk Removal of
              Hazardous Waste section may be recommended.
   8.2. Bulk Removal of Hazardous Waste. For removal of large quantities of waste in tank
   trucks, gondolas, large containers or other such devices, the generator should:
       8.2.1. Cooperate with and provide information to 72 ABW/CEAN and/or Service
       Contracts Section as necessary to properly dispose of the waste.
       8.2.2. Enter appropriate information in organizational logs and files.
       8.2.3. When transporting or offering for transportation off-site, the transporter must be
       offered DOT approved placards for any shipment of hazardous waste that weighs 1000
       pounds or more. Appropriate placards can be determined by inspection of 49 CFR Part
       172.500.
   8.3. Hazardous Materials Disposal Procedures. Maximum use of hazardous material
   must be made before sending it to DRMS for disposal. Excess hazardous materials that are
   in original, unopened packages in good condition must be handled as follows:
 32                                                   TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


      8.3.1. Transfer through Tinker AFB Channels:
          8.3.1.1. Contact HPP to determine if authorized users at Tinker AFB or other DoD
          facilities could use the material.
          8.3.1.2. If another user is available, follow HPP guidance for transfer of material. If
          an alternate user is not available, proceed with RTDS program outlined below.
      8.3.2. Transfer to RTDS Program:
NOTE: For acceptance by DRMS, all material turn-ins must meet DOT requirements for
transport.
          8.3.2.1. Submit a memorandum to organization’s UEC requesting turn-in assistance.
          The Memorandum should include the MSDS number from HMMS of the material to
          be turned in. UEC will ensure material was authorized for the generator and forward
          the request to 72 ABW/CEAN.
          8.3.2.2. Using the above information 72 ABW/CEAN will prepare a DD Form 1348-
          1a (Turn-In Document) for turn-in to DRMS. The UEC and/or generator will be
          notified when the turn-in document is completed or the document may be emailed.
          8.3.2.3. Generator will pick-up turn-in document and deliver it and excess material to
          the DRMS storage yard within three (3) days of being notified that the document is
          complete. Generator will make prior arrangements with DRMS for delivery and
          ensure containers are in good condition and not leaking.
          8.3.2.4. DRMS will attempt to find alternate user through the RTDS program.
          8.3.2.5. If RTDS program is successful, DRMS will notify 72 ABW/CEAN within
          10 days to de-obligate funds represented by the turn-in document. If RTDS program
          is unsuccessful, DRMS will declare the material a waste.
      8.3.3. Hazardous Waste Declaration. If and when the material fails the RTDS program
      and meets the definition of hazardous waste, DRMS will proceed with disposal as
      follows:
          8.3.3.1. DRMS will prepare waste for transport in accordance with DOT and EPA
          requirements.
          8.3.3.2. DRMS will notify 72 ABW/CEAN that funding represented by appropriate
          DD Form 1348-1 is committed and will identify the manifest used to ship the waste.
      8.3.4. Disposal of Special Category Wastes:
          8.3.4.1. Hazardous Materials. Those hazardous materials in open, partially emptied
          or leaking containers will not go through the RTDS procedures but be declared a
          waste. These containers may either be placed in generator established waste streams
          or DD Form 1348-1a’s will be printed by 72 ABW/CEAN.
          8.3.4.2. Used Batteries. Nickel/Cadmium, Mercury, Lithium, Magnesium,
          Lead/Acid, Silver and other batteries will be turned in to DRMS for recycling or
          disposal. These batteries may be managed as Universal Wastes. Contact UEC when
          batteries need to be turned in to DRMS. UEC will contact 72 ABW/CEAN and
          identify the type(s) of batteries that require DD Form 1348-1a’s and if they are solid
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                             33


       cell or liquid cell. Small “alkaline” batteries are not regulated as hazardous waste so
       may be disposed of as non-hazardous solid waste.
       8.3.4.3. Medical and Pharmaceutical Waste. The State of Oklahoma does not
       consider waste derived from materials intended for medical or pharmaceutical use
       hazardous. Coordinate with 72 ABW/CEAN and Bioenvironmental (SGPB) for
       disposal instructions.
       8.3.4.4. “Classified” Hazardous Waste. This waste will be handled according to
       appropriate DoD guidelines that include provisions for meeting EPA and DOT rules.
       8.3.4.5. Abandoned Waste.          The discovery of an unlabeled or otherwise
       unidentified container or other accumulation of waste will be handled as follows:
          8.3.4.5.1. Report discovery to UEC responsible for that industrial area who will
          attempt to find the owner within that organization.
          8.3.4.5.2. If unable to find the owner of the waste, the UEC will report the
          discovery to 72 ABW/CEAN who will conduct a wider search.
          8.3.4.5.3. If 72 ABW/CEAN is unable to identify the owner of the waste, the
          discovery will be referred to the Office of Special Investigations.
       8.3.4.6. Mixed Waste. This waste must be managed in accordance with both EPA
       and Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) Rules.
          8.3.4.6.1. Control the waste while on site using the appropriate management
          method.
          8.3.4.6.2. Coordinate with Bioenvironmental Engineering to ensure that NRC
          rules are followed.
          8.3.4.6.3. Ensure that the shipping manifest, LDR forms, NRC forms and other
          tracking procedures are properly completed.
       8.3.4.7. Polychlorinated Biphenyl (PCB) Waste. This waste must be managed in
       accordance with the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) and EPA regulations at 40
       CFR 761. Items removed for disposal must be disposed of or incinerated within one
       year.
          8.3.4.7.1. Control PCBs and PCB items in DOT approved containers. Place a
          PCB label on container and mark the date of first accumulation on the label.
          Ensure all items and quantities contained are listed on the label. Wait for further
          instruction before disturbing PCB oils in non-leaking equipment.
          8.3.4.7.2. Light ballasts that are not marked “PCB Free” will be considered as
          containing PCBs.
          8.3.4.7.3. Contact 72 ABW/CEAN at 734-4188 to coordinate proper handling of
          PCB waste.
          8.3.4.7.4. Contact DRMS at 739-2204 to schedule a turn in time and deliver the
          PCB container to Bldg. 810.
 34                                                   TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


          8.3.4.8. Paint Booth Contract Services. Contractor will obtain DOT boxes from
          Bldg. 808 prior to servicing a paint booth. Contractor will place paint filters and
          paper removed from paint booth in the boxes and notify Bldg. 808 where to pick up
          the boxes and which organization was serviced.
9. OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR THE HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
FACILITY (HWMF).
   9.1. The purpose of this facility is multi-fold:
      9.1.1. The HWMF serves as a center for processing containers of hazardous waste en-
      route to DRMS and off-base shipment creating a standard for turn-in procedures at
      Tinker AFB.
      9.1.2. Through issue of serialized containers to generators of hazardous wastes, the
      HWMF initiates the record trail which documents the beginning of the “Cradle-to-Grave”
      hazardous waste tracking procedure.
      9.1.3. The facility provides a service by supplying waste containers as needed and by
      relieving generators of the work of processing filled containers for off-base shipment.
      The generators’ responsibilities are to maintain their waste streams and to follow
      appropriate management procedures. As a HWAS, the HWMF must follow rules for
      accumulation site operation.
      9.1.4. The facility provides an avenue for recycling or disposal of empty containers.
      9.1.5. The HWMF provides for proper disposal of waste lamps.
9.2. 2 HWMF Procedures for Distribution of 55-Gallon Drums with Bar-coded Labels:
      9.2.1. When requests for containers are received by HWMF personnel, information
      provided by generator either by phone, HWTS or OC-ALC Form 266 will be compared
      with HWTS data.
      9.2.2. If information compares, generate a container label from HWTS.
      9.2.3. If the waste to be accumulated is known to be hazardous, ensure the words
      “HAZARDOUS WASTE” appear on the label.
      9.2.4. Place appropriate hazard label on drum. (See 49 CFR 172 Subpart E.)
      9.2.5. If information does not compare with HWTS data, instruct generator to contact
      their UEC to obtain approval to generate the waste.
      9.2.6. Distribute OC-ALC Form 266 as follows:
          9.2.6.1. Original to be kept in files at HWMF for three years.
          9.2.6.2. Copy for generator’s files delivered with container.
   9.3. HWMF Procedures for Processing Waste Containers:
      9.3.1. Operation of the Drum Pick-Up Service:
          9.3.1.1. When a request for container pick-up is received, HWMF personnel will
          respond within one hour to pick-up the container and move it to the HWMF.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                              35


        9.3.1.2. Properly trained personnel, using safe handling practices and proper
        equipment, shall accomplish movement of containers.
     9.3.2. Accepting Containers from Management Sites:
        9.3.2.1. Ensure Certified Filled Date is appropriately marked on container label in
        indelible ink.
        9.3.2.2. Ensure container is in good condition with no leaks, severe dents, waste
        residue on top or sides and sealing devices installed.
        9.3.2.3. Ensure container is full (90% if holding liquids), or legitimate reason
        provided for partially filled container.
        9.3.2.4. If above items are in compliance, mark the “Date Received” on container
        label using an indelible pen. This date is the Accumulation Start Date.
        9.3.2.5. If above requirements are not met, do not accept container or mark “Date
        Received.”
     9.3.3. Determining Actual Contents of Containers:
        9.3.3.1. Each drum shall be sampled or inspected to determine actual contents.
        9.3.3.2. Samples will be collected and analyzed in accordance with Attachment 1,
        Waste Analysis Plan.
        9.3.3.3. Results of analysis or inspection shall be entered into the HWTS using the
        bar code on that container.
        9.3.3.4. If waste identification differs significantly from container label, generator
        will be contacted for explanation.
     9.3.4. Holding Procedures On-Site:
        9.3.4.1. Containers shall not remain on-site longer than 90 days from the “Date
        Received” (Accumulation Start Date) marked on container label.
        9.3.4.2. Accumulation Site Management procedures will be followed.
  9.4. Turn-In of Containers to DRMS:
     9.4.1. For each container 72 ABW/CEAN shall generate through the HWTS, a DD Form
     1348-1a annotated with appropriate information and a funding code.
     9.4.2. In addition to the unique bar-code, description, origin, process and waste analysis
     information previously entered into the HWTS, the following information pertaining to
     that container and its contents shall be entered into the system: DOT shipping
     information, EPA waste codes, document number, weight in pounds of drum and waste
     and disposal costs. Disposal costs will be determined according to the current DRMS
     disposal contract.
     9.4.3. After arranging an appropriate time, deliver the certified DD Forms 1348-1a and
     corresponding waste containers to the DRMS permitted management site. Annotate
     HWTS and inventory records of the delivery date.
 36                                                     TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


       9.4.4. Properly trained personnel, using safe handling practices and proper equipment,
       shall accomplish movement to DRMS.
10. MANAGEMENT OF PERMITTED STORAGE FACILITY (PSF).
   10.1. Permitted Storage Facility. At Tinker AFB, the DRMS operates the PSF for long-
   term storage of hazardous waste. The need for long-term storage is based on the large
   volume and variety of hazardous wastes generated at the base. Over 3000 tons are generated
   each year, about one-half of which is cycled through DRMS. Analysis, labeling and
   contracting for disposal of that volume of hazardous waste would be very difficult within the
   90 days allowed at an HWAS. The PSF allows storage of large enough quantities of specific
   waste streams to award efficient, cost effective contracts for disposal, or to find recyclers
   willing to purchase the large quantity of raw material at premium prices.
NOTE: Nearly all hazardous waste stored at the DRMS Facility originates from mission-related
processes at Tinker AFB. A small amount originates as new material shipped to DRMS from
other Federal facilities to be sold or distributed for use elsewhere. Occasionally, another use for
this material cannot be found and it is unsuitable for shipment back to the original owner. In
these cases, the material (if it meets the definition) must be disposed of as hazardous waste. At
that time, it is properly labeled and managed as hazardous waste.
   10.2. Operating Permit. The “Part B” RCRA Operating Permit that is jointly issued by
   EPA and DEQ controls operation of PSFs. Because the facility is located entirely on Tinker
   AFB property, it operates under the same EPA ID number as Tinker AFB: OK1571724391.
   DRMS is the operator of the PSF. Modifications to the “Part B” permit will be coordinated
   through 72 ABW/CEAN.
   10.3. Physical Plan. The “Part B” Permit describes in detail the location and construction
   of the permitted facilities. Containers are the only holding devices allowed by the permit.
   10.4. Specific Management Requirements. Refer to the “Part B” Permit for hazardous
   waste management and handling requirements at the permitted storage facility.
11. OFF-SITE TRACKING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE SHIPMENTS. This section is
concerned with the preparation of containers for off-site shipment of hazardous waste and the
tracking procedures to be used after shipment to a designated facility. It completes the trail of
records that previous parts have followed only as far as DRMS or Service Contracts Section.
   11.1. Container Selection. All containers shipped off-site must meet DOT specifications
   for the waste contained. See 49 CFR 173.
   11.2. Container Preparation. Before containers are transported off-site, they will be
   marked in accordance with 49 CFR 172 Subpart D, 40 CFR 262.32(b), and labeled in
   accordance with 49 CFR 172 Subpart E.
       11.2.1. Marking. Marking information may be stenciled in one-inch block lettering in
       paint on the side of the container. However, the use of a “hazardous waste shipping
       label” made of a durable material, such as vinyl, and of a contrasting color, to combine
       DOT and EPA information is recommended. Information will be written on the label
       with an indelible marker. See example in Table 5.
           11.2.1.1. EPA WORDS. Enter the words specified in 40 CFR 262.32(b).
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                          37


       11.2.1.2. PROPER DOT SHIPPING NAME. Enter the proper DOT shipping
       name as found in 49 CFR Part 172.101 (Column 2).
       11.2.1.3. HAZARD CLASS. Enter the DOT hazard class as found in 49 CFR Part
       172.101 (Column 3) on the same line.
       11.2.1.4. PACKING GROUP. Enter the DOT packing group as found in 49 CFR
       Part 172.101 (Column 5) on the same line.
       11.2.1.5. DOT ID NUMBER. Enter the DOT identification number as found in 49
       CFR Part 172.101 (Column 4).
       11.2.1.6. GENERATOR INFORMATION. Enter the organization symbol for the
       Asset Management Division, installation name and address. This may be preprinted
       on the label.
       11.2.1.7. EPA ID NUMBER. Enter the EPA identification number for Tinker AFB
       (OK1571724391). This may also be preprinted.
       11.2.1.8. EPA WASTE NO. Enter applicable four digit codes for the hazardous
       waste (found in 40 CFR Part 261, Subparts C and D).
       11.2.1.9. ACCUMULATION START DATE. See definition in Attachment 2 to
       this instruction.
       11.2.1.10. MANIFEST DOCUMENT NUMBER. Enter the number from Block 1,
       or from Block A, of the manifest that includes this container when shipped off-site.
       11.2.1.11. Hazard Labels. If not already present, hazard labels, including bung
       labels if necessary, as specified in 49 CFR 172 Subpart E, will be affixed to the
       container.
 38                                                  TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


Table 5. Example of Label Information

ITEM                                                     EXAMPLE

EPA WORDS                                         HAZARDOUS WASTE
EPA ADDITIONAL                                    FEDERAL LAW PROHIBITS IMPROPER
WORDS                                             DISPOSAL. IF FOUND  ---ETC.
DOT SHIPPING NAME                                 “RQ” WASTE PAINT    RELATED
MATERIAL
HAZARD CLASS                                      3
PACKING GROUP                                     III
DOT ID NUMBER                                     UN1263
GENERATOR INFORMATION                             72 ABW/CEA
                                                       TINKER AFB
                                                  OKC OK 73145
EPA ID NUMBER FOR BASE                            OK1571724391

EPA WASTE NO.                                     D001, D035, F005
ACCUMULATION START DATE                           02 JUNE 94
MANIFEST DOCUMENT NO.                             0025858



   11.3. Shipment Documentation (Hazardous Waste Manifest). A manifest must
   accompany a shipment of hazardous waste being transported on a public highway. A
   manifest is the shipping paper for hazardous waste. All generators are required to use the
   Uniform Hazardous Waste Manifest. Some states have additional requirements beyond the
   Uniform Hazardous Waste Manifest. Any additional state requirements must also be met.
   11.4. Responsibility for Originating the Manifest. Federal and State regulations assign
   responsibility for originating or signing manifests on the generator. At Tinker AFB, the
   72 ABW/CEA Division has been delegated to act as generator for all base activities. The
   72 ABW/CEA Division has further delegated authority to originate manifests as follows:
       11.4.1. DRMS originates manifests for all shipments through the DRMS disposal
       contract.
       11.4.2. Environmental Compliance Section or Service Contracts Section originates
       manifests for shipments through a contract awarded by Service Contracts Section.
       11.4.3. All other organizations and their contractors needing to ship hazardous waste off
       base shall coordinate with 72 ABW/CEAN, 734-3278.
       11.4.4. DRMS and Service Contracts Section will request delegation from Asset
       Management Division for their personnel who originate manifests.
       11.4.5. All personnel who receive delegation of authority to sign Hazardous Waste
       Manifests and LDR forms must maintain currency with hazardous waste training
       requirements. They must also maintain currency with DOT training requirements
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                    39


       outlined in 49 CFR 172 subpart H which requires refresher training at least once every
       three years.
   11.5. Tracking the Manifest:
       11.5.1. The generator’s copy of the manifest will be delivered to 72 ABW/CEAN within
       two hours after the initial transporter accepts shipment. For after duty hours the manifest
       will be delivered to the Fire Department, if possible, or held until the next duty day and
       delivered to 72 ABW/CEAN.
       11.5.2. 72 ABW/CEAN will monitor return of manifest signed by designated facility.
       11.5.3. When copy of manifest signed by designated facility is received, place with
       generator’s copy in files and maintain for at least three years.
       11.5.4. Exception Report:
           11.5.4.1. If a copy of the manifest signed by the designated facility is not received
           within 35 calendar days after acceptance by the initial transporter, the transporters,
           the designated facility and/or others will be contacted to verify the status of the waste.
           11.5.4.2. Submit Exception Report (40 CFR 262.42) will be sent to DEQ if manifest
           copy signed by designated facility is not received within 45 calendar days after initial
           transporter accepts the waste shipment.
           11.5.4.3. Exception Reports will be kept on file for at least three years after the due
           date of the reports.
   11.6. Shipment Documentation (LDR Notification and Certification):
       11.6.1. If the waste being shipped does not meet applicable treatment standards set forth
       in Subpart D of 40 CFR 268 or if it exceeds prohibition levels in 40 CFR 268.32 or
       RCRA 3004(d), the receiving facility must be notified in writing of the appropriate
       treatment standards and other information set forth in 40 CFR 268.7(a)(1).
       11.6.2. If the waste being shipped is subject to restrictions but can be land disposed
       without further treatment, the receiving facility must be notified as above and also be
       provided with a written certification stating that the waste meets applicable treatment
       standards as outlined in 40 CFR 268.7(a)(2).
NOTE: The certification must be signed by an authorized representative and state the following:
“I certify under penalty of law that I personally have examined and am familiar with the waste
through analysis and testing or through knowledge of the waste to support this certification that
the waste complies with the treatment standards specified in 40 CFR Part 268 Subpart D and all
applicable prohibitions set forth in 40 CFR 268.32 or RCRA section 3004(d). I believe that the
information I submitted is true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting a false certification, including the possibility of a fine and
imprisonment.”
       11.6.3. The same person who prepares the manifest shall prepare the above described
       notification and certification documents. The documents shall accompany the manifest to
       the designated facility. A copy will be filed with the manifest signed by the designated
       facility for record keeping purposes.
 40                                                    TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


   11.7. Certificate of Disposal (COD). This document certifies that the waste was treated, or
   disposed of in a proper manner, where, when and by what method. It has become unfeasible
   to require all hazardous waste disposal contracts to require CODs be delivered to
   72 ABW/CEA.
12. HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT TRAINING. Personnel involved in hazardous
waste management must complete a program of instruction that enables them to perform their
duties in a manner that meets Federal, State, DoD, Air Force and local laws, regulations and
requirements. EPA requirements are outlined in 40 CFR 264.16 for permitted management sites
and 40 CFR 265.16 for non-permitted management sites. Hazardous waste generators are
included by reference at 40 CFR 262.34(a)(4).
   12.1. AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, 21 Apr 09, states, “All personnel whose work
   involves HW and their immediate supervisors must receive and successfully complete HW
   training appropriate to their job responsibilities. Training will occur within three months of
   an employee’s arrival or assignment to HW-related duties.” Untrained personnel must work
   under the direct supervision of trained personnel. The supervisor will provide site-specific
   procedures.
   12.2. The following elements of training are considered essential:
       12.2.1. Introduction to the RCRA.
       12.2.2. Identification of hazardous waste.
       12.2.3. Accumulation point management.
       12.2.4. Container use, marking, labeling and on-base transportation.
       12.2.5. Waste turn-in procedures.
       12.2.6. Manifesting and off-base transportation of hazardous waste.
       12.2.7. Spill prevention and emergency response.
       12.2.8. Waste reduction.
       12.2.9. Personnel safety and health and fire safety.
   12.3. AFPAM 32-7043, Hazardous Waste Management Guide, 1 Nov 95, states “Training
   sources may include the Air Force Training program, the Air Force Institute of Technology
   (AFIT), the Air Force School of Aerospace medicine, or commercial sources.” AFIT offers
   HW training either through taking this course at Headquarters, view it by satellite or by using
   their CD.
   12.4. Scheduled Training:
       12.4.1. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring their employees receive adequate site-
       and task-specific familiarization and supplement formal training with on-the-job training
       as needed.
       12.4.2. Supervisors will contact the organizations training manager to request training.
       The training manager will then contact 72FSS/FSDE to schedule personnel for training.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                             41


  12.5. Training Records. Supervisors shall maintain training records for their employees.
  The supervisors shall maintain a tracking list of personnel who need training for their
  organization. The supervisor shall coordinate with their UEC on training.
     12.5.1. Records should at a minimum include student’s name, job title, job description,
     previous HW training, dates of training, training provider and date of annual refresher
     course.
     12.5.2. Training records must be maintained as long as the individual is associated with,
     or for three years after the individual is no longer working with, hazardous waste. The
     records may be kept in hard copy or electronic format.
13. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
  13.1. Inspections of Organization HW Programs:
     13.1.1. Environmental Compliance Assessment and Management Program
     (ECAMP). This is an Air Force-wide program that serves as a self-auditing mechanism
     to determine the status of compliance with Federal, State, Local, DoD and Air Force rules
     concerning environmental areas. Hazardous waste management typically receives a large
     amount of attention during these audits.
         13.1.1.1. Any violations discovered will require a monthly status report until
         corrective action is complete.
  13.2. Hazardous Waste Site Inspection Team (HWSIT) will inspect all organizations
  annually.
     13.2.1. The HWSIT will consist of hazardous waste trained personnel including a 72
     ABW/CEAN representative and one or more UECs. The primary contact will be the
     UEC of the organization being inspected. The Primary or Alternate UEC or a designated
     person will accompany the inspector throughout their organization during the inspection.
     13.2.2. 72 ABW/CEAN will develop the inspection checklists, schedule UECs on a
     rotating basis to conduct inspections and maintain results of the inspections.
     13.2.3. The inspection will cover all aspects outlined in this instruction concerning the
     organization’s hazardous waste management program including: container management,
     self-inspections, waste turn-in procedures, record keeping, training, contingency
     planning, waste stream identification and reporting.
     13.2.4. Inspection reports will be evaluated by 72 ABW/CEAN and results discussed
     with UEC of the organization where findings are identified. Repeated findings and
     severe findings may result in issuance of an Environmental Deficiency Report (EDR) to
     the generating organization.
     13.2.5. UEC must ensure all findings in their organization have been corrected and
     notify 72 ABW/CEAN within 30 calendar days.
  13.3. Hazardous Waste Working Group (HWWG):
     13.3.1. Purpose. The HWWG provides a forum for coordination, dissemination of
     information and serves as a steering group to guide the overall conduct of the hazardous
     waste management program.
42                                                   TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


     13.3.2. Role. The role of the HWWG is to review hazardous waste management policy
     and make recommendations based upon operational experience. 72 ABW/CEA uses this
     forum to present policy, disseminate information and monitor program effectiveness.
     Other organizations use this forum to stay current with base policy, call attention to areas
     of the program that are no longer effective and make recommendations.
     13.3.3. Membership. The Director of Civil Engineering appoints the chairperson of the
     HWWG. That person would normally be the manager of the Hazardous Waste
     Management Program within the 72 ABW/CEA Division. Members of the HWWG
     include the UECs and representatives from Contracting, Legal, DRMS,
     Bioenvironmental, the Fire Department and Safety who are appointed by their respective
     organizational directors. These persons must be knowledgeable of hazardous waste
     management requirements in their organization. Others involved in hazardous waste
     management are welcome to attend.
     13.3.4. Responsibilities. The Chairperson, as an appointee of the CE Director, ensures
     that CE policies are represented at HWWG meetings. Other members ensure that
     responsibilities outlined in this instruction are carried out in their organizations.
     13.3.5. Operating Procedure. Meeting minutes will be recorded, and a copy of those
     minutes will be distributed to members no later than the next meeting. An agenda will be
     distributed before the start of the meeting. Unless otherwise announced, meetings will be
     held the third Tuesday of the first month of each quarter at 1000 hours in the 72
     ABW/CEA Conference Room 210 in Bldg. 1.
  13.4. Coordination with Regulatory Agencies:
     13.4.1. 72 ABW/CEAN will serve as the point-of-contact for hazardous waste issues
     raised by regulatory agencies such as EPA, DEQ and Air Force IG teams.
     13.4.2. Reports to regulatory agencies, such as the Biennial Report to EPA, monthly and
     quarterly reports to DEQ and status reports to AFMC, will be prepared by 72
     ABW/CEAN.
  13.5. Facility-Wide Documents. Documents relating to the hazardous waste program for
  Tinker AFB will be prepared and updated by 72 ABW/CEAN including this instruction and
  the “Part B” RCRA Operating Permit.
  13.6. Hazardous Waste Database. 72 ABW/CEAN will maintain a database of waste
  streams, chemical analysis, waste shipments, TSDFs used and other information for all
  generating activities at Tinker AFB.
  13.7. 72 ABW/CEAN Review of DRMS Manifests:
     13.7.1. At least three working days prior to shipping hazardous waste off-site, manifests
     for that waste shall be prepared by DRMS and delivered to 72 ABW/CEAN for review.
     13.7.2. 72 ABW/CEAN shall review the manifests with special emphasis on waste
     identification, waste codes, shipping names, quantities and costs as outlined on the DD
     Forms 1348-1a corresponding to the wastes being shipped.
     13.7.3. Any differences found will be resolved between 72 ABW/CEAN and DRMS
     before the waste is shipped off-site.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                 43


14. EMPTY CONTAINER HANDLING PROCEDURES. Most containers that previously
held materials used in various operations at Tinker AFB can be disposed of as non-hazardous
waste if they meet the definition of “empty” in 40 CFR 261.7. In view of base-wide efforts
toward waste minimization and to reduce disposal costs, the procedures outlined below will be
followed. While the containers meet the EPA definition of “empty” they must still be given
special handling consideration because large numbers of them are frequently accumulated in one
place. This increases the threat of fire and release of a toxic substance. The Container
Processing Facility (CPF) in Building 3125 has been established to facilitate these procedures.
   14.1. Containers with more than one inch of hazardous residual material (that would meet
   the definition of hazardous waste) or more than three percent by weight of the total capacity
   of the container (for containers less than or equal to 119 gallons) are not considered empty
   and must be handled as a hazardous waste.
   14.2. Empty Container Processing:
       14.2.1. All empty 5 to 55 gallon metal and plastic containers will be labeled with a six
       inch by six inch vinyl “EMPTY” label by generating organization. The correct stock
       number and chemical name of the material previously held if not legible on the
       containers, generating functional address symbol and telephone number will be written
       on the label with an indelible ink marker. The drums shall be placed on pallets, four
       drums per pallet, and taped together to prevent falling. Generator will call 734-3285 to
       arrange for container pick up by the CPF contractor.
       14.2.2. Empty metal containers less than five gallons in size shall be double-bagged by
       the organization and placed at the normal waste collection point. The organization shall
       then contact the HWMF for pick-up. Generator shall ensure that these containers are
       bagged in such a manner to prevent any drips or leaks.
       14.2.3. Empty aerosol cans shall be accumulated separately in devices labeled “Empty
       Aerosol Cans” then delivered into a designated container at the CPF. Personnel at the
       CPF shall puncture the aerosol cans in a manner such that the contents are expelled into a
       55-gallon hazardous waste accumulation device. The cans will then be air-dried and
       placed into a 55-gallon drum which will be crushed and sent out to be recycled.
       14.2.4. Empty hand-held compressed gas cylinders will be accumulated separately in
       accumulation devices labeled “Empty Hand-Held Compressed Gas Cylinders.” These
       shall be delivered into a designated container at the CPF. These shall be depressurized
       and sent out to be recycled.
NOTE: Partially full aerosol cans and gas cylinders are handled as excess material.
       14.2.5. Empty plastic less than five gallons and empty glass containers will be triple
       rinsed to an IWTP drain by generator and handled as solid waste providing there are no
       recycling capabilities.
15. UNIVERSAL WASTE LAMP MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES. Universal Waste
Lamps are defined as the bulb or tube portion of an electric lighting device designed to produce
radiant energy, most often in the ultraviolet, visible and infrared regions of the electromagnetic
spectrum. Examples include fluorescent, high intensity, neon, mercury vapor, high-pressure
sodium and metal halide lamps. Refer to 40 CFR 273.5 and 273.9 for additional information.
44                                                   TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


  15.1. Accumulation Procedures for Waste Lamp Accumulation Sites (WLAS). For each
  directorate or other major organization at Tinker AFB that generates UW Lamps, the
  commander of that organization and its UEC shall choose one or more convenient WLAS
  and appoint a Waste Lamp Manager for the site. These sites shall be coordinated with 72
  ABW/CEAN. All personnel in that organization shall be notified about the purpose and
  location of these sites.
     15.1.1. All types of UW lamps generated by an organization shall be brought to the
     WLAS and placed in an appropriate container.
     15.1.2. A “Universal Waste Lamp Tracking Log” (available from 72 ABW/CEAN) shall
     be kept in the vicinity of each WLAS.
        15.1.2.1. An “Accumulation Start Date” shall be posted on the tracking log reflecting
        the date the first lamp is placed in the WLAS. The “Clean-Out Date” shall reflect the
        date lamps and debris are cleaned out and moved to the Waste Lamp Consolidation
        Site (WLCS).
        15.1.2.2. The Waste Lamp Manager will maintain completed “Universal Waste
        Lamp Tracking Logs” in an onsite file for at least three years.
     15.1.3. Containers for accumulating UW Lamps shall provide protection from breakage
     and be appropriate to the type of lamp being accumulated. The box in which the lamps
     were supplied may be used for accumulation or containers may be obtained from the
     WLCS, 734-3285. If the generator provides containers, a “Class 9 Universal Waste
     Lamp Label” shall be obtained from the WLCS and placed on the container. Start date
     on the “Universal Waste Lamp Label” should be annotated when the first bulb is placed
     in the container. The container should be situated so that the label is visible and legible.
     Containers must be kept closed except when adding contents.
     15.1.4. Accumulation of UW lamps may not exceed six months in a WLAS. Generators
     may call the WLCS at 734-3285 for container pick up and new container delivery, or they
     may provide their own transportation.
     15.1.5. The Waste Lamp Manager shall be responsible for the proper accumulation of
     UW Lamps, management of the WLAS and containers. All additions to UW Lamp
     containers shall be coordinated through this person.
  15.2. Waste Lamp Consolidation Site Functions. The WLCS is located in the Hazardous
  Waste Management Facility, Bldg 808.
     15.2.1. Procedures shall be followed for issuing containers with the following
     exceptions:
        15.2.1.1. Containers issued by the WLCS shall include a “Class 9 Universal Waste
        Lamp Label”. There is no volume limit.
        15.2.1.2. Containers issued shall be appropriate to the type and estimated volume of
        lamps being accumulated.
        15.2.1.3. Containers may be reissued with new labels after transferring contents to
        another container at the WLCS.
     15.2.2. Consolidation of Universal Waste Lamps at the WLCS shall include:
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                               45


         15.2.2.1. The WLCS shall provide secure temporary storage of UW lamps to prevent
         breakage of lamps and damage to containers.
         15.2.2.2. Containers of UW lamps, including bags of broken lamp debris, shall be
         picked up from generators when requested and brought to the WLCS.
         15.2.2.3. If containers received at the WLCS are DOT approved and full, they shall
         be placed in secure storage at the WLCS and held until transported off-site.
         15.2.2.4. Partially empty or non-DOT approved containers received at the WLCS
         may, at the discretion of the WLCS manager, be held in secure storage or reissued
         with a new “Class 9 Universal Waste Lamp Label” after transferring contents into a
         container at the WLCS.
         15.2.2.5. An IAP for broken lamp debris from all areas of Tinker AFB shall be
         maintained at the WLCS.
         15.2.2.6. All containers received in the WLCS shall have the Universal Waste Lamp
         labels attached and the start date annotated. Boxes should be stored so that the labels
         are visible. When contents of two or more containers are consolidated, the label
         should indicate the date of the oldest lamp.
     15.2.3. Holding Time Limit.
         15.2.3.1. The contents of the secured storage area at the WLCS shall be completely
         cleared and transported off-site within six months after consolidation begins. Any
         UW Lamp debris shall be placed in the IAP maintained for that purpose.
         15.2.3.2. A “Universal Waste Lamp Tracking Log” (available from 72 ABW/
         CEAN) shall be maintained at the WLCS.
            15.2.3.2.1. An “Accumulation Start Date” shall be posted on the log reflecting
            the date the first lamp is placed in the WLCS. The “Clean-Out Date” shall reflect
            the date UW lamps are transported off-site and the area swept clean of debris.
            15.2.3.2.2. The WLCS Manager shall maintain completed “Universal Waste
            Lamp Tracking Logs” in an onsite file for at least three years.
  15.3. Off-Site Shipments. UW lamps received by the WLCS shall be shipped off-site to an
  acceptable facility within the six month time limit. Shipments shall be coordinated through
  the DRMS following proper DOT shipping guidelines for Universal Waste.
     15.3.1. Prior to shipment, all UW Lamps shall be packaged in DOT approved containers
     appropriate to the type of lamp.
     15.3.2. Records of all UW Lamp shipments shall be maintained for at least three years.
     Records shall include: name and address of receiving facility, shipping date and quantity
     in pounds.
  15.4. Spill Response. All spills, leakage or releases from UW lamps, such as from
  accidental breakage, shall be immediately contained then cleaned up and placed in a bag for
  accumulation at the WLCS.
 46                                               TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011




16. Adopted Forms:

AF IMT 847, Recommendation of Change of Publication
DD Form 1348-1a, Issue Release/Receipt Document

17. Prescribed Forms:

TINKER AFB Form 485, Accumulator Site Inspection Checklist (Tanks)
TINKER AFB Form 486, Accumulator Site Inspection Checklist (Containers)
TINKER AFB Form 487, Initial Accumulation Point Management Aid
TINKER AFB Form 132, Tank Inventory Log for Accumulation Sites.




                                        ROBERT D. LABRUTTA, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                            47


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7042_USAFASUP, Solid and Hazardous Waste Compliance, 22 May 2003
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFI 32-7042, Waste Management, 21 Apr 09
AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, Chap 22, 07
July 2004
AFPAM 32-7043, Hazardous Waste Management Guide, 01 November 1995
OC-ALC Plan 19-2, Spill Prevention and Response Plan, March 2010

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB— Air Force Base
AFIT— Air Force Institute of Technology
ASD— Accumulation Start Date
CERCLA— Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
CFR— Code of Federal Regulations
COD— Certificate of Disposal
CP— Collection Point
CPF— Container Processing Facility
DEQ— Department of Environmental Quality (Oklahoma)
DLA— Defense Logistics Agency
DoD— Department of Defense
DOJ— Department of Justice
DOL— Department of Labor
DOT— Department of Transportation
DRMS— Defense Reutilization and Marketing Service
ECAMP— Environmental Compliance Assessment and Management Program
EDR— Environmental Deficiency Record
EMIS— Environmental Management Information System
EOD— Explosive Ordnance Disposal
EPA— Environmental Protection Agency
EPCRA— Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act
 48                                                 TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


ESOH— Environmental Safety and Occupational Health Council
ETIS— Environmental Technical Information System
HM— Hazardous Material
HMMP— Hazardous Materials Management Program
HMMS— Hazardous Materials Management System
HPP— Hazardous Pharmacy Program
HSWA— Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments (to RCRA, 1984)
HW— Hazardous Waste
HWAS— Hazardous Waste Accumulation Site
HWMF— Hazardous Waste Management Facility
HWMI— Hazardous Waste Management Instruction
HWSIT— Hazardous Waste Site Inspection Team
HWTS— Hazardous Waste Tracking System
HWWG— Hazardous Waste Working Group
IAP— Initial Accumulation Point
IC— Incident Commander
IG— Inspector General
IRL— Immediate Removal Location
IWTP— Industrial Wastewater Treatment Plant
LDR— Land Disposal Restrictions
MIBK— Methyl Isobutyl Ketone
MSDS— Material Safety Data Sheet
NOV— Notice of Violation
NPL— National Priorities List
NRC— Nuclear Regulatory Commission
NSN— National Stock Number
OC—ALC - Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center
OI— Operating Instruction
OSI— Office of Special Investigations (Air Force)
POL— Petroleum, Oils and Lubricants
PCB— Polychlorinated Biphenyl
PSF— Permitted Storage Facility
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                  49


QAE— Quality Assurance Evaluator
RCRA— Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
RQ— Reportable Quantity
RTDS— Reutilization, Transfer, Donation or Sale Program
SARA— Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act
SOW— Statement of Work
SSCP— Site Specific Contingency Plan
STLC— Soluble Threshold Limit Concentration
SWMU— Solid Waste Management Unit
TCLP— Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure
TRI— Toxic Release Inventory
TSDF— Treatment, Storage or Disposal Facility
TTLC— Total Threshold Limit Concentration
UEC— Unit Environmental Coordinator
VOC— Volatile Organic Compound
WAP— Waste Analysis Plan
WLAS— Waste Lamp Accumulation Site
WLCS—Waste Lamp Consolidation Site
WSA— Waste Staging Area

Terms
Accumulation— The process of gathering portions of a hazardous waste stream and placing
them into a controlled accumulation device.
Accumulation Device— A container, tank or gondola intended to be repeatedly opened for the
purpose of adding to its contents.
Accumulation Site— A specific area in an industrial complex where unlimited quantities of
hazardous wastes may be accumulated or held for as long as 90 days without a formal permit.
Such an area is normally used as a short term collection facility for wastes in tanks, or for
containers of waste from various initial accumulation points, to allow for waste analysis, labeling
and tracking procedures prior to transfer to a permitted treatment, storage or disposal facility.
Accumulation Start Date— Could have any one of three meanings depending on context:
The date on which the first drop of hazardous waste is placed into a previously empty container
at an accumulation site.
The date on which a container of hazardous waste arrives at an accumulation site from an initial
accumulation point (must be no later than three days after the filled date).
 50                                                    TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


The date on which the first drop of hazardous waste is placed in a tank that had previously been
completely drained.
Acute Hazardous Waste—           Any waste containing commercial chemical products,
manufacturing chemical intermediates or off-specification products or intermediates listed in 40
CFR 261.33(e).
Barrel— See definition of Drum.
Bung/Bung Hole— The screw cap on the top of a steel barrel, drum or other portable
container/the opening left when the cap is removed.
Bung Label— A 3-inch by 5-inch DOT label to be applied near the bungs of the drums
containing flammable liquid having a vapor pressure between 16 and 40 p.s.i.a. at 100 degrees
Fahrenheit. A pressure FLAMMABLE LIQUID label must accompany a BUNG LABEL.
Characteristic Waste— A waste that exhibits any of the characteristics listed in 40 CFR 261,
Subpart C (i.e. ignitability, corrosivity, reactivity and toxicity).
Characterization— An evaluation of a waste to determine if it is a hazardous waste. This
evaluation can be conducted either by the generator’s knowledge of the process generating the
waste or by analytical testing.
Closed— May have either of two meanings depending on context:
The condition of a management device where no waste can escape if the device falls onto its
side. Bung Cap must be rotated three complete revolutions with threads engaged. (See
definition of “Sealed”.)
The condition of a management site that has met all the requirements for closure.
Closure— The discontinuance of use of a hazardous waste management site and all actions
taken to eliminate any future threat to human health or the environment.
Collection Point— A location in an industrial shop where small quantities of hazardous waste
are accumulated in a small container (10 gallons or less) for no longer than one work shift, or
until it is full, whichever is less time.
Combustible Liquid— Basically, a liquid that has a flash point greater than 141 degrees
Fahrenheit and less than 200 degrees Fahrenheit, but see 49 CFR 173.120 for more detail.
Container— Any portable device in which waste is accumulated, held, stored, transported,
treated, disposed or otherwise handled.
Container Processing Facility (CPF)— Located in Building 3125, this facility is managed by a
private firm under contract to 72 ABW/CEAN to receive empty containers and prepare them for
recycling by cleaning or crushing as necessary or consolidating them for disposal if recycling is
not an option.
Contingency Plan— A document setting out an organized, planned and coordinated course of
action to be followed in case of fire, explosion or release of hazardous materials or hazardous
waste constituents that could threaten human health or the environment. OC-ALC Plan 19-2,
Spill Prevention and Response Plan, serves as the Tinker AFB contingency plan for hazardous
waste spills.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                 51


Corrosivity— An aqueous hazardous waste characteristic exhibited by pH values of 2.0 or less,
12.5 or greater or a corrosion rate of steel greater than 0.25 inches per year. (40 CFR 261.22)
Designated Facility— A hazardous waste treatment, storage or disposal facility (TSDF) that
has been designated on a manifest by the generator as the receiving site for hazardous waste
pursuant to 40 CFR Part 262.20.
Dike— An embankment or ridge of either natural or man-made materials used to prevent
movement of liquids, sludges, solids or other materials. (40 CFR 260.10)
Discharge or Release— The accidental or intentional spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying or dumping of hazardous waste into or on any land or water. (40 CFR
260.10)
Disposal— The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any waste
into or on any land or water so that such waste or any constituent thereof may enter the
environment or be emitted into the air or discharge into any waters, including ground waters. (40
CFR 260.10)
Disposal Facility— A facility or part of a facility at which wastes are intentionally placed into
or onto any land or water and at which waste will remain after closure. (40 CFR 260.10)
Drum— A cylindrical container with a capacity of 5 to 85 gallons capable of safely holding the
material placed within it.
Empty— A container or an inner liner removed from a container that has held any hazardous
waste, except a waste that is a compressed gas or that is identified as an acute hazardous waste
listed in 40 CFR, 261.31, 261.32 or 261.33(e) is empty if one of the following conditions is met:
All wastes have been removed that can be removed using the practices commonly employed to
remove materials from that type of container, e.g. pouring, pumping and aspirating and no more
than 2.5 centimeters (one inch) of residue remain on the bottom of the container or inner liner.
 No more than three percent by weight of the total capacity of the container remains in the
container or inner liner if the container is less than or equal to 110 gallons in size.
No more than 0.3 percent by weight of the total capacity of the container remains in the container
or inner liner if the container is greater than 110 gallons in size.
 A container that has held a hazardous material that is a compressed gas is empty when the
pressure in the container approaches atmospheric.
A container or an inner liner removed from a container that has held an acute hazardous waste
listed in 40 CFR 261.31, 261.32 or 261.33(e) is empty if:
 The container or inner liner has been triple rinsed using a solvent capable of removing the
commercial chemical product or manufacturing chemical intermediate.
The container or inner liner has been cleaned by another method that has been shown in
scientific literature, or in tests conducted by the generator, to achieve equivalent removal.
 In the case of a container, the inner liner that prevented contact of the commercial chemical
product or manufacturing chemical intermediate with the container has been removed.
Environmental Deficiency Record (EDR)— A tool used by CEA to highlight a serious
problem found in an organization’s environmental management procedures. The problem will
be outlined on OC-ALC Form 233 and sent to the organization’s commander.
 52                                                     TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


Enviropac— A large plastic or metal box, usually with a lockable lid, designed to hold two to
four 55-gallon drums, control access to them and to contain their contents in the event of a leak
or spill.
EPA Identification Number— A number assigned by EPA to generators, transporters and
treatment, storage or disposal facilities. The identification number for Tinker AFB is: OK
1571724391.
EPA Waste Code— A number assigned by EPA to each hazardous waste listed in 40 CFR 261
Subpart D and to each characteristic identified in 40 CFR 261 subpart C.
F—waste - Any waste contaminated with a solvent having an EPA waste code of F001 through
F005.
Facility— All contiguous land and structures, other appurtenances and improvements on the
land used for treating, storing or disposing of hazardous waste. A facility may consist of several
treatment, storage or disposal operational units (one or more landfills, surface impoundments or
combinations).
Filled Date— The date when a container at an Initial Accumulation Point becomes full (90% of
capacity for liquids). If, for any reason, a container is turned-in before it becomes full, the date
the decision is made to do that becomes the filled date.
Flammable Liquid— Any liquid having a flash point of not more than 141 degrees Fahrenheit
with the following exceptions:
Any liquid meeting one of the definitions specified in 49 CFR Part 173.115.
Any mixture having one component or more with a flash point greater than 141 degrees
Fahrenheit or higher that makes up at least 99 percent of the total volume of the mixture.
Flammable Solid— Any of the following: (See 49 CFR 173.124.)
Wetted Explosives.
Self—Reactive Materials.
Readily combustible solids.
Flash Point— The minimum temperature at which a substance gives off flammable vapors that
in contact with sparks or flame will ignite. (49 CFR 171.8)
Freeboard— The vertical distance between the top of a tank or surface impoundment dike and
the surface of the waste contained therein. (40 CFR 260.10)
Generation Point— The location within an industrial shop where some specific process first
produces hazardous waste. This original production of hazardous waste is the cradle of the
cradle-to-grave tracking system.
Generator— Any person or organization whose act or process first produces hazardous waste
identified in 40 CFR 261.3 or whose act first causes a material to become subject to hazardous
waste regulations.
Gondola— A large container mounted on wheels or skids that are designed to ease loading of
the device onto a truck.
Ground Water— Water below the land surface in a zone of saturation. (40 CFR 260.10)
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                    53


Hazardous Constituent— Any constituent identified in Appendix VIII of 40 CFR Part 261, or
any constituent identified in Appendix IX of 40 CFR Part 264.
Hazardous Material (HM)— A designated substance or material which has been determined
by the Secretary of Transportation to be capable of posing an unreasonable risk to health, safety
and property when transported in commerce.
Hazardous Pharmacy Program (HPP)— An organizational unit within
72 ABW/CEAN that provides single point control and accountability over the requisitioning,
receipt, distribution, issue and reissue of hazardous materials.
Hazardous Waste (HW)— A solid waste that is either specifically listed as a hazardous waste
in 40 CFR 261 Subpart D or that exhibits a characteristic of ignitability, corrosivity, reactivity or
toxicity as defined in 40 CFR 261 Subpart C. Also, any waste defined as hazardous by state laws
or regulations. Note that the threshold term “solid waste” has its own complicated regulatory
definition. Because of the complexity of determining what is a solid waste, and because
sampling and laboratory testing are often required to determine whether a solid waste has
hazardous characteristics sufficient to make it a hazardous waste, individuals are cautioned that
72 ABW/CEAN must make the final technical decision on whether a substance is a hazardous
waste.
Hazardous Waste Management—                The systematic control of the accumulation,
characterization, storage, transportation, processing, treatment, recovery and disposal of
hazardous waste.
Hazardous Waste Management Facility (HWMF)— Located in Bldgs. 808, 809 and 810 this
is an accumulation site composed of equipment, space, personnel and services managed through
a contract by 72 ABW/CEAN that is designed to standardize the issuance, turn-in and tracking of
containers of hazardous waste and to facilitate waste sampling and analysis.
Hazardous Waste Manager— A person assigned the responsibility of monitoring and
maintaining a hazardous waste management site in compliance with this instruction and RCRA
requirements.
Hazardous Waste Site Inspection Team (HWSIT)— A group of persons composed of Unit
Environmental Coordinators and 72 ABW/CEAN personnel that conduct periodic inspections of
all organizational hazardous waste management programs.
Hazardous Waste Tracking System (HWTS)— A computer system that stores all information
related to hazardous waste management at Tinker AFB.
HazMat Team— A group of personnel specially trained to respond to spills of hazardous
materials and other emergencies.
Holding— The process of maintaining hazardous waste in a secure holding device.
Holding Device— A container, tank or gondola used to provide secure maintenance of
hazardous waste and is not to be opened except to sample or transfer the contents.
Ignitability— A hazardous waste characteristic of a liquid having a flash point of less than 140
degrees Fahrenheit, a solid that may catch fire spontaneously, a compressed gas that may ignite
as defined in 49 CFR 173.115 or an oxidizer as defined in 49 CFR 173.127.
 54                                                     TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


Immediate Removal Location (IRL)— The location of an industrial process where a decision
is periodically made to declare a contaminated material being used in the process a hazardous
waste. The waste is then moved within 72 hours to a more secure management site or is
transported to an off-site TSDF.
Incompatible— A hazardous waste which is unsuitable for:
 Placement in a particular device or facility because it may cause corrosion or decay of
containment materials (container inner liners or tank walls). (40 CFR 260.10)
 Commingling with another waste material under controlled conditions because the commingling
might produce heat or pressure, fire or explosion, violent reaction, toxic dusts, mists, fumes or
gases, or flammable fumes or gases. (40 CFR 260.10)
Industrial Shop (or Area)— Any location on Tinker AFB where activities are being conducted
in support of U.S. Government Programs.
Initial Accumulation Point (IAP)— A designated container at or near a generation point in
which as much as 55 gallons of a specified hazardous waste, or one quart of acute hazardous
waste, may be accumulated over an unlimited amount of time. Its use is controlled by the
generator and is to serve as a convenient initial repository of relatively small amounts of a
hazardous waste that is generated on an intermittent basis by a particular process.
Inner Liner— A continuous layer of material placed inside a tank or container that protects the
construction materials of the tank or container from the contained waste or reagents used to treat
the waste. (40 CFR 260.10)
Inspection Checklist— A list of requirements, the status of which must be formally recorded
on an established form on a periodic basis.
Label— A piece of paper, vinyl or other material attached to a container of hazardous material
or hazardous waste, inscribed with information on the nature, ownership or destination of the
material or waste.
Listed Waste— A specific chemical waste identified in 40 CFR 261, Subpart D.
Management Device— General term including Accumulation and Holding Devices.
Management Method—            The set of procedures used to manage hazardous waste at a
management site.
Management Site— A general term that refers to any place where hazardous wastes are
managed to include CP, IAP, WSA, HWAS, IRL, PSF and TSDF.
Manifest— EPA Form 8700-22 used to identify the quantity, composition, origin, routing and
destination of waste during its transportation from a point of generation to a treatment, storage or
disposal facility.
Manifest Document Number— An alphanumeric code assigned to a manifest by the generator
for tracking, recording and reporting purposes.
On—Site - The same or geographically contiguous property that may be divided by public or
private right-of-way provided the entrance and exit between the properties is at a crossroads
intersection and access is by crossing, as opposed to going along the right-of-way.
Noncontiguous properties owned by the same person but connected by a right-of-way, which the
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                 55


individual controls, and to which the public does not have access is also considered on-site
property. (40 CFR 260.10)
Operational Checklist— A short list of requirements prominently posted near hazardous waste
management sites by which the sites shall be reviewed daily for compliance.
Overpack Drum— A large drum, usually 85 gallons in size, used to contain a smaller, leaking
drum and its contents.
Oxidizer— A substance such as a chlorate, permanganate, peroxide or a nitrate that yields
oxygen readily to stimulate the combustion of the material.
PCB Item— Any equipment or material that contains polychlorinated biphenyls, as defined in
40 CFR 761.3, in excess of 50-ppm concentration.
Permitted Storage Facility (PSF)— A facility having a formal EPA or State permit where
hazardous waste may be stored for more than 90 days but no more than one year in the case of
wastes restricted from land disposal. At Tinker AFB, Bldg 810 operated by the DRMS is such a
facility.
Personnel (or Facility Personnel)— All personnel who work at or oversee the operation of a
permitted storage facility or other management site, and whose action or failure to act may result
in noncompliance with the requirements of the Tinker AFB RCRA Part B Operating Permit.
Process— A sequence of events caused by human or machine activity that results, whether
intentional or not, in some specific end product or effect.
Profile Sheet— A document that describes the physical and chemical properties of a hazardous
waste. DRMS Form 1930 is such a document.
Reactivity— A hazardous waste characteristic exhibited by any of the violent reactions outlined
in 40 CFR 261.23.
Recycling.—In general, a process by which spent materials are transformed into usable products;
however, for purposes of hazardous waste management, recycling has a special definition based
on various provisions in 40 CFR 261.1, 261.2, and 261.4.
Removal Date— The date when a container that has been accumulating hazardous waste at an
IAP or IRL is moved to a more secure management site.
Runoff— Any rainwater, leachate or other liquid that drains over land from any part of a
facility. (40 CFR 260.10)
Sealed— A condition that prevents any leakage, discharge or emissions of solids, liquids, or
gases from a management device. Bung caps and locking rings are installed and tightened. (See
definition of “Closed.”)
Secure— A condition that prevents unauthorized access. A secure site or device must preclude
entry by unauthorized individuals and unauthorized accumulation or disposal of hazardous
waste.
Segregation— Physical separation of material or wastes to prevent incompatible reactions, to
facilitate their use, to make them more amenable to being recycled or to prevent contamination
of non-hazardous material or waste with hazardous waste.
 56                                                     TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


Sludge— Any solid, semisolid or liquid waste generated from a municipal, commercial or
industrial wastewater treatment plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control
facility exclusive of the treated effluent from a wastewater treatment plant or industrial process.
(40 CFR 260.10)
Solid Waste— Any discarded material as defined in 40 CFR 261.2. This CFR definition is very
complicated. It includes any liquid or gaseous waste matter, as well as solids. In particular, the
term “discarded” has a very specialized definition. Among other things, it includes any material
that is abandoned by being (1) disposed of, (2) burned or incinerated, or (3) accumulated, stored
or treated in lieu of being disposed of, burned or incinerated. For purposes of this instruction, the
most important point is that a material may become a solid waste, and potentially a hazardous
waste, as soon as the intent to discard the material is formed. Because of the complexity of
determining what is a solid waste, 72 ABW/CEAN should make the final technical decision.
Spill— Any accidental or unintentional leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying or
dumping of water or materials into or onto any surface, land, water or air.
Storage— The management of hazardous waste in secure holding devices at a permitted storage
facility prior to its being treated, disposed of or stored elsewhere.
Tank— A stationary device with an open or closed top used to hold or accumulate liquid
materials or wastes which is constructed primarily of non-earthen materials (wood, concrete,
steel, plastic, fiberglass) which provide structural support.
Transportation— The act of moving hazardous waste from one management site to another.
Transporter— A person who engages in transportation of hazardous waste.
Treatment— Any method, technique, or process including neutralization, designed to change
the physical, chemical or biological character or composition of any hazardous waste so as to
neutralize such waste or so as to recover energy or material resources from the waste; or so as to
render such waste non-hazardous, or less hazardous, safer to transport, store or dispose of; or
amenable for recovery or storage, or reduce in volume. (40 CFR 260.10)
Triple—Rinsing - A procedure for removing hazardous waste residue from a container by
rinsing it three times with a solvent or steam to remove the chemical previously held in the
container.
Volatile Organic Compound— An organic compound that evaporates readily and participates
in atmospheric photochemical reactions.
Universal Waste Lamp— The bulb or tube portion of an electric lighting device designed to
produce radiant energy, most often in the ultraviolet, visible and infrared regions of the
electromagnetic spectrum. Examples include fluorescent, high intensity, neon, mercury vapor,
high-pressure sodium and metal halide lamps.
Waste Lamp Accumulation Site— A designated location in an industrial complex for
temporary storage of Universal Waste Lamps.
Waste Staging Area— A designated location in an industrial complex where more than one 55-
gallon drum, each accumulating a different but compatible hazardous waste, are maintained in
close proximity as Initial Accumulation Points. The purpose is to provide complete control of
wastes being generated by the responsible organization and maximum safety of personnel.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                 57


Waste Stream— A waste of consistent composition and origin that is generated on a
continuous or intermittent basis at a particular location by a particular process.
Waste Type— The description or chemical analysis of an identified waste.
 58                                                    TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


                                         Attachment 2
                               A2. WASTE ANALYSIS PLAN:

A2.1. Purpose. To establish procedures for the analysis of hazardous wastes required before
treatment, storage or disposal by RCRA (40 CFR Parts 264.13, 265.13, and 268.7) and Title 252,
Oklahoma Administrative Code, Chapter 200-3-2.
A2.2. Responsibilities. 72 ABW/CEA is responsible for ensuring that proper analysis of
hazardous wastes is accomplished before treatment, storage or disposal. The Tinker
Environmental Laboratory will conduct most analysis needed to support hazardous waste
management at Tinker AFB. It is capable of performing all normal operational waste stream
analysis requirements including the Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure (TCLP). 72
ABW/CEA will maintain a contract with an outside laboratory to provide analysis in case of
work overload, an analytical confirmation is needed or when a special procedure is required.
A2.3. Requests for Analysis. The following information shall be provided when a customer of
the Tinker Environmental Laboratory needs a waste analyzed. For purposes of quality control,
the customer will be asked to complete the Sample Request Form (Figure A2.1). This can be
submitted to the Laboratory by email, faxed or hand delivered.
   A2.3.1. A written memorandum addressed to 72 ABW/CEAN that provides the following:
       A2.3.1.1. Name, organization and telephone number of requesting individual.
       A2.3.1.2. General description of waste.
       A2.3.1.3. Location and quantity of waste.
       A2.3.1.4. Description of process generating waste.
       A2.3.1.5. Any problems of access to obtain sample.
   A2.3.2. If sample is supplied to the laboratory, provide a written memorandum to72
   ABW/CEAN with information in A1.3.1.1. through A1.3.1.4. and the following:
       A2.3.2.1. Sampling method.
       A2.3.2.2. Time and date when sample was obtained.
   A2.3.3. In an emergency (i.e. a spill), contact the laboratory directly at 736-5871.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                           59


Figure A2.1. TINKER AFB 21 Sample Request Form




A2.4. Procedures for Analysis:
   A2.4.1. All hazardous wastes generated at Tinker AFB will be analyzed as often as waste
   streams or processes change to ensure characterization is accurate and up-to-date. At the
 60                                                    TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


   very least, 72 ABW/CEA will review the current set of hazardous waste analysis annually.
   The analytical procedures discussed herein are to be used by the Tinker Environmental
   Laboratory as well as by laboratories that perform hazardous waste analysis for Tinker AFB.
   Table A2.2 is a list of abbreviations used for the various analytical procedures discussed.
   Elements are identified by standard chemical symbols.

Figure A2.2. Abbreviations Used in the Waste Analysis Plan.


   A2.4.2. Representative samples will be collected from all drums, tanks and vats using the
   sampling procedures outlined in EPA Office of Solid Waste Bulletin No. SW-846, Test
   Methods for the Evaluation of Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods. Samples will be
   submitted to the Tinker Environmental Laboratory or to contract laboratories for analysis as
   required. Contract laboratories must participate in the EPA Contract Laboratory Program.
   A2.4.3. Waste analysis will be accomplished as required by 40 CFR Parts 264.13 and 268.7
   using methods outlined in EPA Office of Solid Waste Bulletin SW-846. Quality
   assurance/quality control procedures will meet or exceed all requirements for waste analysis.
   A2.4.4. In addition to information for a complete Material Profile Sheet per waste stream
   sample, all hazardous waste analysis will provide information required by the DEQ Form
   858. The parameters analyzed are: primary chemical and physical form, characteristics,
   chemical element, composition, percent solids, specific weight, pH, flash point, organic and
   inorganic components and heavy metals.
   A2.4.5. From these analyses, the laboratory will supply the correct DOT shipping name,
   DOT hazard class, DOT identification number, EPA hazardous waste number, waste land
   disposal acceptability and a reason the waste is a “hazardous waste” in Oklahoma.
   A2.4.6. Profile Sheets for each waste stream generated will be filed by 72ABW/CEAN.
A2.5. Rationale for Analysis. Paragraph A1.7 discusses 16 types of wastes and the analytical
procedures needed for each. The procedures are designed for the efficient analysis of the various
categories of wastes. Although not all encompassing, the procedures cover the majority of the
waste streams that the base generates. Therefore, additional analytical procedures will need to be
added on a case-by-case basis.
   A2.5.1. The rationale for selecting the analytical procedures listed in this waste analysis
   instruction are based on our knowledge of the chemicals used, processes performed and
   contaminants generated during these processes.
   A2.5.2. Except for plating solution rinse water and oils with traces of PCBs, the majority of
   the hazardous waste streams will contain constituents in the part per million range.
   Analytical methods will reflect this policy.
   A2.5.3. The methods discussed require that the waste being analyzed has been isolated,
   containerized and not commingled. The problems created by commingling are: risk of
   mixing incompatible materials, increased difficulty in obtaining a representative sample,
   increased time and costs of analysis, reduction of resale value of the wastes and additional
   treatment difficulty and cost increase of disposal.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                    61


   A2.5.4. EPA methods are cited for various analytical procedures and are designed primarily
   for trace determinations and may not always be best suited for a given sample. If a method
   other than the EPA method is used to analyze a sample, the analytical report will be
   annotated to indicate the method used. Non-EPA methods will be documented and kept on
   file by the Tinker Environmental Laboratory.
A2.6. Testing for LDRs. In accordance with 40 CFR Part 268.7, all waste streams must be
analyzed to determine if they are restricted from land disposal. The general extraction procedure
to be used for this purpose is outlined in Appendix II of 40 CFR Part 261 and is known as the
Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure or TCLP. After an extract has been obtained,
additional analysis as outlined below are required to test for particular constituents.
   A2.6.1. Metals Analysis:
       A2.6.1.1. Metals will generally be analyzed by ICP (Inductive Coupled Plasma) or AA
       (Atomic Absorption). Direct flame aspiration, graphite or atomic emission spectroscopy
       are all acceptable. EPA 6000 series methods for Sb, As, Ba, Be, Cd, Cu, Pb, Ni, Os, Se,
       Ag, Tl, V and Zn as listed in SW-846 are recommended.
       A2.6.1.2. Plating solutions may have severe matrix interferences; these are best
       overcome by the method of standard additions. Ion chromatography is also an acceptable
       method for determining inorganic cations and anions.
       A2.6.1.3. Plating wastes will routinely be analyzed for Ag, Cd, Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn.
       Analysis can be performed for Co, Mo, Au, Rh, Sn, etc. by special request.
       A2.6.1.4. Sludge will be measured on a wet weight basis. The sludge shall be digested
       in concentrated nitric acid for total metal content analysis and the results reported in parts
       per million (ppm). If no metal concentration is more than its Total Threshold Limit
       Concentration (TTLC) and any metal concentration is greater than its Soluble Threshold
       Limit Concentration (STLC), then the citric acid extraction (W.E.T.) procedure for
       soluble metals shall also be done.
       A2.6.1.5. Paint, paint remover and degreasers containing paint chips will be analyzed for
       Ba, Pb, Cr, Cd, Cu and Zn.
       A2.6.1.6. Cleaners and degreasers will be analyzed for Ba and Mo.
       A2.6.1.7. Hydraulic fluid contaminated wastes will be analyzed for Ba.
       A2.6.1.8. Chromium analysis will be for hexavalent chromium when colormetric (EPA
       7196) or chromatographic methods are used. When AA and ICP methods are used, the
       concentration for chromium will be total chrome. Cr(VI) specific sample separation
       methods EPA 7195 or 7197 are also suitable.
   A2.6.2. Solvents can be analyzed by GC (Gas Chromatograph) in either liquid or vapor
   phase. IR (Infrared Spectroscopy) also can analyze solvents.
   A2.6.3. Hydraulic Oil. Since hydraulic oil may contain phosphate (TCP) or barium
   naphtenate additives, whenever hydraulic oil is found or suspected in a waste, these additives
   must be checked. TCP can be analyzed by GC/MS. Barium can be analyzed by dissolving
   the sample in MIBK and measuring by AA or ICP. An alternative analysis for Ba would use
   liquid-liquid extraction into dilute aqueous nitric acid followed by AA or ICP measurement.
 62                                                     TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


A2.7. Specific Waste Type Analysis.
   A2.7.1. ABSORBENTS:
      A2.7.1.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
          A2.7.1.1.1. Solid, dry or absorbed liquid.
          A2.7.1.1.2. Color of material.
          A2.7.1.1.3. Free liquid.
          A2.7.1.1.4. Odor.
      A2.7.1.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
          A2.7.1.2.1. Flash point (Free liquid).
          A2.7.1.2.2. Toxicity: solvents, oils, metals, additives, etc.
      A2.7.1.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
          A2.7.1.3.1. Percent extractable organics, identify by GC or IR.
             A2.7.1.3.1.1. Hydraulic fluid, tricresyl phosphate by GC and Ba by ICP.
             A2.7.1.3.1.2. Transformer oils, PCBs by GC.
             A2.7.1.3.1.3. Fuels/Motor oils, Pb by ICP.
          A2.7.1.3.2. Solid, for total Pb, Zn and Ba.
   A2.7.2. ACIDS/PLATING SHOP:
      A2.7.2.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
          A2.7.2.1.1. Color of solution.
          A2.7.2.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
      A2.7.2.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
          A2.7.2.2.1. pH.
          A2.7.2.2.2. Specific Gravity.
          A2.7.2.2.3. Reactivity.
             A2.7.2.2.3.1. All acids are incompatible with cyanide and sulfide containing
             waste.
             A2.7.2.2.3.2. Nitric acid solutions/metals produce nitrogen oxide gases.
             A2.7.2.2.3.3. Strong nitric acid solutions are oxidizers.
             A2.7.2.2.3.4. Concentrated sulfuric acid/water releases heat.
          A2.7.2.2.4. Toxicity: heavy metals and fluoride.
      A2.7.2.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
          A2.7.2.3.1. Analysis of liquid phase.
          A2.7.2.3.1.1. Total Ag, Cd, Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn; by AA, ICP.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                          63


          A2.7.2.3.1.2. Percent Acid by titration or specific gravity.
          A2.7.2.3.1.3. Free fluoride by specific ion electrode.
          A2.7.2.3.1.4. Chromium (IV) by colorimetry or ion chromatography.
       A2.7.2.3.2. Analysis of sludge phase.
          A2.7.2.3.2.1. Identify by IR, X-ray Fluorescence, etc.
          A2.7.2.3.2.2. Total Ag, Cd, Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn; by AA, ICP.
  A2.7.3. CAUSTICS AND ALKALINE CLEANERS:
     A2.7.3.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.3.1.1. Color of solution.
       A2.7.3.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
     A2.7.3.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.3.2.1. pH.
       A2.7.3.2.2. Specific Gravity.
       A2.7.3.2.3. Reactivity.
          A2.7.3.2.3.1. Strong Caustic Solutions/aluminum and zinc produce hydrogen gas.
          A2.7.3.2.3.2. Concentrated caustics/water releases heat.
       A2.7.3.2.4. Toxicity: cyanides, sulfides and heavy metals.
     A2.7.3.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.3.3.1. Analysis of liquid phase.
          A2.7.3.3.1.1. Total Cd, Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn; by AA and ICP.
          A2.7.3.3.1.2. Water content by evaporation.
          A2.7.3.3.1.3. Alkali content by titration.
          A2.7.3.3.1.4. Total Cyanide by distillation and colorimetry or titrametric.
          A2.7.3.3.1.5. Total Phosphate by ion chromatograph, colorimetry.
       A2.7.3.3.2. Analysis of sludge phase.
          A2.7.3.3.2.1. Identify by IR, XRF, XRD, etc.
          A2.7.3.3.2.2. Total Cd, Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn; by AA or ICP.
  A2.7.4. CYANIDE PLATING SOLUTIONS:
     A2.7.4.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.4.1.1. Color of solution.
       A2.7.4.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
     A2.7.4.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
64                                                 TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


       A2.7.4.2.1. pH.
       A2.7.4.2.2. Reactivity.
          A2.7.4.2.2.1. All cyanide-containing solutions have severe toxic capabilities.
          A2.7.4.2.2.2. Contact with acids of any type releases highly toxic hydrogen
          cyanide gas.
          A2.7.4.2.2.3. Contact with acidic chlorine solutions releases highly toxic
          cyanogen chloride gas.
       A2.7.4.2.3. Toxicity: cyanide and heavy metals.
     A2.7.4.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.4.3.1. Analysis of liquid phase.
          A2.7.4.3.1.1. Total Ag, Cd, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn; by AA or ICP.
          A2.7.4.3.1.2. Water content by evaporation.
          A2.7.4.3.1.3. Total cyanide by distillation and colorimetry or titrametric.
       A2.7.4.3.2. Analysis of sludge phase.
          A2.7.4.3.2.1. Total Ag, Cd, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn; by AA or ICP.
          A2.7.4.3.2.2. Total cyanide by distillation and colorimetry or titrametric.
          A2.7.4.3.2.3. Identify by IR, XRF, XRD or wet chemistry.
  A2.7.5. PLATING SOLUTIONS (Metals):
     A2.7.5.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.5.1.1. Color of solution.
       A2.7.5.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
     A2.7.5.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.5.2.1. pH.
       A2.7.5.2.2. Specific Gravity.
       A2.7.5.2.3. Reactivity: Tank specific (e.g., cyanide) or reaction/acid solutions.
       A2.7.5.2.4. Toxicity: cyanide, fluoride and other heavy metals.
     A2.7.5.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.5.3.1. Analysis of liquid phase.
          A2.7.5.3.1.1. Total Ag, Cd, Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn; by AA or ICP.
          A2.7.5.3.1.2. Water Content.
          A2.7.5.3.1.3. Acid or Alkali.
          A2.7.5.3.1.4. Special tests as requested.
  A2.7.6. CHROMATE SOLUTIONS:
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                         65


     A2.7.6.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.6.1.1. Color of solution.
       A2.7.6.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
     A2.7.6.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.6.2.1. pH.
       A2.7.6.2.2. Specific Gravity.
       A2.7.6.2.3. Reactivity.
          A2.7.6.2.3.1. Many chromate solutions are strongly acidic.
          A2.7.6.2.3.2. Same incompatibilities and reactions as with acid solutions.
       A2.7.6.2.4. Toxicity: hexavalent chromium, other heavy metals or fluoride.
     A2.7.6.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.6.3.1. Analysis of liquid phase.
          A2.7.6.3.1.1. Total Cr, Cd, Cu, Ni, Zn and Pb; by AA or ICP.
          A2.7.6.3.1.2. Water content.
          A2.7.6.3.1.3. Percent acid titration.
          A2.7.6.3.1.4. Optional analysis Cr(VI) by colorimetry, iodimetry or ion
          chromatography.
  A2.7.7. ELECTROLESS COPPER PLATING:
     A2.7.7.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.7.1.1. Color of solution.
       A2.7.7.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
     A2.7.7.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.7.2.1. pH.
       A2.7.7.2.2. Specific Gravity.
       A2.7.7.2.3. Toxicity: formaldehyde, presence copper.
     A2.7.7.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.7.3.1. Analysis of liquid phase.
          A2.7.7.3.1.1. Water content.
          A2.7.7.3.1.2. Formaldehyde by chromatropic acid/ sulfuric acid colorimetric
          method.
  A2.7.8. ADHESIVES, SEALANTS AND PREPEGS:
     A2.7.8.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.8.1.1. Color of material.
66                                                  TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


       A2.7.8.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
       A2.7.8.1.3. Viscosity.
       A2.7.8.1.4. Layers.
     A2.7.8.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.8.2.1. Flash point.
       A2.7.8.2.2. Toxicity:      Aromatic amines, expoxides, formaldehyde, phenols,
       isocynates, solvents.
     A2.7.8.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.8.3.1. Analysis of volatiles.
          A2.7.8.3.1.1. Percent volatiles by distillation.
          A2.7.8.3.1.2. Identify volatiles by GC, GC/MS or IR.
       A2.7.8.3.2. Analysis of nonvolatiles.
          A2.7.8.3.2.1. Identify by IR: epoxy, polysulfide, acrylic, etc.
  A2.7.9. WASTE PAINT: NEW, USED, OR PAINT CONTAMINATED RAGS:
     A2.7.9.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.9.1.1. Color of material.
       A2.7.9.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
     A2.7.9.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.9.2.1. Flash point.
       A2.7.9.2.2. Toxicity: Aromatic solvents, non-aromatic solvents or heavy metals.
     A2.7.9.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.9.3.1. Analysis of volatiles.
          A2.7.9.3.1.1. Percent of volatiles by distillation.
          A2.7.9.3.1.2. Identify volatiles by GC, GC/MS or IR.
       A2.7.9.3.2. Analysis of nonvolatiles.
          A2.7.9.3.2.1. Percent extractable organics.
          A2.7.9.3.2.2. Identify extractables by GC, GC/MS or IR.
       A2.7.9.3.3. Analysis of nonextractable material.
          A2.7.9.3.3.1. Identify material by IR.
          A2.7.9.3.3.2. Total Cd, Pb, Cr, Ba, Cu, Zn, Hg, etc.
       A2.7.9.3.4. Analysis of contaminated rags.
          A2.7.9.3.4.1. Volatiles by Headspace/GC or GC/MS.
          A2.7.9.3.4.2. Total Cd, Pb, Cr, Ba, Cu, etc. by AA or ICP.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                      67


  A2.7.10. PAINT REMOVER (METHYLENE CHLORIDE TYPE):
     A2.7.10.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.10.1.1. Color of material.
       A2.7.10.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
     A2.7.10.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.10.2.1. pH.
       A2.7.10.2.2. Flash point.
       A2.7.10.2.3. Toxicity: solvents, heavy metals, amines, ketones or phenols.
     A2.7.10.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.10.3.1. Analysis of volatiles
          A2.7.10.3.1.1. Identify volatiles by GC, GC/MS or IR.
       A2.7.10.3.2. Analysis of nonvolatiles.
          A2.7.10.3.2.1. Percent extractable organics.
          A2.7.10.3.2.2. Identify extractables by GC, GC/MS or IR.
       A2.7.10.3.3. Analysis of nonextractable material.
          A2.7.10.3.3.1. Identify material by IR.
          A2.7.10.3.3.2. Total Pb, Cd, Cr, Cu, etc. by AA or ICP.
  A2.7.11. PAINT STRIPPER (SOLVENT TANK AND HOT STRIPPERS):
     A2.7.11.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.11.1.1. Color of material.
       A2.7.11.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
     A2.7.11.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.11.2.1. pH.
       A2.7.11.2.2. Flash point.
       A2.7.11.2.3. Toxicity: solvents, amines, ethers, heavy metals.
     A2.7.11.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.11.3.1. Analysis of volatiles.
          A2.7.11.3.1.1. Percent volatiles distillation.
          A2.7.11.3.1.2. Identify volatiles by GC, GC/MS or IR.
       A2.7.11.3.2. Analysis of nonvolatiles.
          A2.7.11.3.2.1. Identify nonvolatiles by IR.
          A2.7.11.3.2.2. Total Pb, Cd, Cr, Cu, etc. by AA or ICP.
68                                                TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


  A2.7.12. DEGREASER SOLVENTS:
     A2.7.12.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.12.1.1. Color of solution.
       A2.7.12.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
     A2.7.12.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.12.2.1. Toxicity: solvents (aromatic, halogenated, etc.), heavy metals in sludge.
     A2.7.12.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.12.3.1. Analysis of liquid phase.
          A2.7.12.3.1.1. Percent volatiles.
          A2.7.12.3.1.2. Identify volatiles by GC, GC/MS or IR.
       A2.7.12.3.2. Analysis of sludge.
          A2.7.12.3.2.1. Percent extractable organics.
          A2.7.12.3.2.2. Identify extractables by GC, GC/MS or IR.
          A2.7.12.3.2.3. Identify nonextractables by IR.
  A2.7.13. DEGREASING DETERGENTS:
     A2.7.13.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.13.1.1. Color of solution.
       A2.7.13.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
       A2.7.13.1.3. Analysis of sludge.
          A2.7.13.1.3.1. Percent extractable organics.
          A2.7.13.1.3.2. Identify extractables by GC, GC/MS or IR.
          A2.7.13.1.3.3. Identify nonextractables by IR.
          A2.7.13.1.3.4. Total Ag, Cr, Cd, Cu, Ni, Zn, Pb, etc. by AA or ICP.
  A2.7.14. OILS NOT COMMINGLED (HYDRAULIC, AIRCRAFT):
     A2.7.14.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.14.1.1. Color of materials.
       A2.7.14.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
     A2.7.14.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.14.2.1. Flash point.
       A2.7.14.2.2. Toxicity: heavy metals, esters, solvents.
     A2.7.14.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.14.3.1. Analysis of oil phase.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                           69


          A2.7.14.3.1.1. Identify by GC, GC/MS or IR.
          A2.7.14.3.1.2. Percent volatiles by Headspace GC.
          A2.7.14.3.1.3. Identify volatiles by GC, GC/MS.
          A2.7.14.3.1.4. Metals Pb, Cr and Cd by AA, ICP or AE.
       A2.7.14.3.2. Analysis of rags contaminated with oil.
          A2.7.14.3.2.1. Percent extractable organics.
          A2.7.14.3.2.2. Identify extractables by GC, GC/MS or IR.
  A2.7.15. WASTE FUELS:
     A2.7.15.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.15.1.1. Color of material.
       A2.7.15.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
     A2.7.15.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.15.2.1. Flash point.
       A2.7.15.2.2. Specific Gravity
       A2.7.15.2.3. Toxicity: solvents, lead, hydrocarbon fuels.
     A2.7.15.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.15.3.1. Identify type of fuel by GC, GC/MS and IR.
       A2.7.15.3.2. Percent volatiles by distillation.
       A2.7.15.3.3. Identify volatiles by GC, GC/MS and IR.
       A2.7.15.3.4. Identify heavy hydrocarbons by GC, GC/MS and IR.
  A2.7.16. INDUSTRIAL WASTE TREATMENT SLUDGE:
     A2.7.16.1. VISUAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.16.1.1. Color of materials.
       A2.7.16.1.2. Phases: number, type and volume.
     A2.7.16.2. PHYSICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.16.2.1. pH.
       A2.7.16.2.2. Toxicity:      heavy metals, cyanide, fluoride, sulfide, pesticides,
       herbicides, phenols.
     A2.7.16.3. CHEMICAL PARAMETERS.
       A2.7.16.3.1. Analysis of water.
          A2.7.16.3.1.1. Ag, As, Ba, Be, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Hg, Mo, Ni, Pb, Sb, Se, Tl, V and
          Zn by AA or ICP.
          A2.7.16.3.1.2. Total cyanide by distillation and colorimetry or titrametric.
70                                                TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


        A2.7.16.3.1.3. Total fluoride by distillation and specific ion electrode.
     A2.7.16.3.2. Analysis of volatiles.
        A2.7.16.3.2.1. Identify volatiles by GC, GC/MS.
     A2.7.16.3.3. Analysis of nonvolatiles.
        A2.7.16.3.3.1. Percent extractable organics.
        A2.7.16.3.3.2. Identify extractables by GC, GC/MS or IR.
     A2.7.16.3.4. Analysis of nonextractable material.
        A2.7.16.3.4.1. Identify material by IR.
        A2.7.16.3.4.2. Total Pb, Cd, Cr, Cu, etc. by AA or ICP.
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                                         71


                                                     Attachment 3
               INFORMATION AND EMERGENCY CONTACTS TINKER AFB

ORGANIZATION                                                                  ON-DUTY EXTENSION

a. Tinker Air Force Base .....................................................(405) 732-7321
   (1) Fire Department .........................................................911
   (2) Base Hospital (EMERGENCY) ...............................911
   (3) Command Post ...........................................................OC-ALC 739-2171
                                                                                     AWACS 734-7313
   (4) Civil Engineer Service Desk ......................................734-3117
   (5) Environmental Operations (72 ABW/CEANO) ........734-5199
   (6) Ground Safety Office .................................................739-3263
   (7) Security Police (EMERGENCY) .............................734-3737
   (8) Disaster Preparedness Office .....................................734-3515
   (9) Bio-environmental Engineering .................................734-7844
   (10) Liquid Fuels Maintenance..........................................734-2753
   (11) Staff Judge Advocate/(Environmental)......................739-5811
   (12) Public Affairs Office ..................................................739-2026
   (13) Service Contracts Section ..........................................734-3301
   (14) Base Locator ..............................................................734-2456
   (15) HWMF (Barrel Yard) ................................................734-3285
   (16) DRMS ........................................................................739-2204
   (17) OSI Criminal Investigations ......................................734-7822

b. Headquarters AFMC, Wright-Patterson AFB OH

   (1) Command Post ...........................................................DSN 787-6314,
       ....................................................................................Commercial (937) 257-6314
   (2) Environmental Office (HQ AFMC/A7) .....................DSN 787-5873
       ....................................................................................Commercial (937) 257-5873

c. Other Off-Base Organizations

   Federal and State Agencies:
   National Response Center .................................................(800) 424-8802
   Regional Response Center.................................................(214) 767-2720
   (If NRC is unavailable)
   Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality ............(405) 271-1400

d. Contingency Contacts

If, in the judgment of the Incident Commander (IC) additional off-base resources are required,
the Plan 10-2, Full Spectrum Threat Response, will be implemented, and the following agencies
and organizations can be contacted if deemed necessary:
 72                                                                       TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


  Oklahoma City Police Department....................................297-1000
  Oklahoma City Fire Department .......................................297-3439
  Midwest City Police Department ......................................739-1300
  Midwest City Fire Department ..........................................739-1340
  Del City Police Department ..............................................677-2443
  Del City Fire Department ..................................................671-2891
  Veterans Affairs Medical Center .......................................270-0501
  Fort Sill EOD Unit ............................................................DSN 639-2313
       ....................................................................................Commercial (580)442-2313
  OK County Sheriff (Bomb Unit) .......................................236-1717

If adequate spill response information is not available for a spill product, which can be identified
by chemical, trade name, or manufacturer, the following organizations can be contacted by
telephone to assist in providing specific information concerning the spill product:

  Chemtrec ...........................................................................(800) 424-9300
  Chem-Tel, Inc. ...................................................................(800) 255-3924
  Military Shipments (Explosives/Ammunition) .................(703) 697-0218
  Military Shipments (Non-Explosive/Ammunition)...........(800) 851-8061
  ETIS...................................................................................(904) 283-6167
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                                 73


                                            Attachment 4
              SPILL DISCOVERY AND INITIAL RESPONSE PROCEDURES

Any person recognizing an oil, hazardous substance, hazardous material or hazardous waste spill
shall immediately:

a.   Activate emergency alarm system, if any.

b.   Evacuate the area, if warranted by the type of spill.

c.   Make sure that all employees shut down their operation and secure their equipment.

d. Call the fire department at 911, and give the type, location and size of spill and the name of
the individual reporting.

e.   Inform the Supervisor, Section Foreman or Chief.

f.   Contain the spill, if it can be done safely.

g. Perform cleanup operations within the unit’s capabilities and assist the fire department upon
its arrival.

h. The supervisor will conduct a roll call of employees and report status to fire department “On-
Scene Commander.”
 74                                                     TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011


                                        Attachment 5
                             RECORD OF ANNUAL REVIEW

The Civil Engineering Environmental Compliance Operations Branch (72 ABW/CEANO) must
review the Hazardous Waste Management Plan triennially. The review will be conducted for
three purposes:

1. To determine changes in the type or volume of hazardous waste generated.

2. To incorporate changes to regulatory requirements.

3. To incorporate changes or additions to procedures and responsibilities for managing
hazardous waste.

 Within each organization, the UEC will review the plan triennially and submit any needed
changes to 72 ABW/CEANO.
                    PERSON
                  CONDUCTING
      DATE          REVIEW                  SIGNATURE                  REMARKS
TINKERAFBI32-7004 4 MARCH 2011                                                      75


                                   Attachment 6
                             RECORD OF CHANGES

 When changes to the HWMI are made, the change number, date of change and name of
person entering the change will be added to the record of changes.
                                                        NAME OF PERSON
 CHANGE NUMBER                  DATE POSTED            ENTERING CHANGES
