BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                        32-7003

                                                                            19 JANUARY 2010

                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 10 JULY 2014

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                                   ENVIRONMENTAL RISK
                                                                  MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication is available for downloading or ordering on the e-Publishing
               website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 72 ABW/CEIE                                                      Certified by: 72 ABW/CE
                                                                                (Gene Gallogly)
Supersedes:   TINKERAFBI32-7003,                                                        Pages: 9
              15 June 1999


This instruction implements AFPD 32-70 and establishes procedures for identifying and
correcting environmental deficiencies to lower the level of risk that base operations have on the
environment, both on and around the base. It is applicable to all OC-ALC and associate
organizations on Tinker AFB. It doesn’t apply to Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard
(ANG) units. Refer recommended changes and questions regarding this instruction to 72
ABW/CEAN using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
IMT 847s through publications/forms managers. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change revises TINKERAFBI 32-7003 by changing the frequency of briefing the
ESOH council from quarterly to semi-annually, and revises routing symbols and organizational
name to reflect a recent reorganization. It also updates regulations referenced within Attachment
1.
 2                                                  TINKERAFBI32-7003 19 JANUARY 2010



1. General Information:
     1.1. This instruction outlines the base’s environmental risk management program.
     Environmental deficiencies as defined herein are the basis for identifying problems which
     need correction to reduce environmental impacts, health hazards, and deviations from
     environmental laws, regulations and instructions.
     1.2. The capability to allocate limited resources to maximize benefits to the environment and
     minimize adverse environmental impact is provided through an information system, which
     establishes priorities for environmental deficiencies. This system of assigning relative
     priorities to environmental problems is intended to be compatible with other base
     management information systems throughout the base. Other management information
     systems such as those used in Accounting and Finance, Civil Engineering, and Supply can
     then direct limited resources to correct environmental deficiencies relative to other
     requirements for those resources.
2. Responsibilities
     2.1. The Environmental Management Branch of Civil Engineering (72 ABW/CEIE) will:
        2.1.1. Establish the relative priorities for “E” coded work requirements and will then
        relay these priorities to the appropriate Civil Engineering Committee (Facility Board, AF
        332 (Civil Engineering Work Request) Working Group, etc.)
        2.1.2. Be responsible for administering the Environmental Risk Management Program.
        2.1.3. Develop procedures to oversee environmental programs across base through
        inspections, surveys, program audits, and records reviews.
        2.1.4. Complete the Environmental Deficiency Record (EDR), maintain a file copy, and
        send the original EDR to the responsible organization.
        2.1.5. Develop charts/slides for the Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health
        (ESOH) working group and council meetings.
     2.2. 72 ABW/CE will:
        2.2.1. Direct resources to correct environmental deficiencies according to the priorities
        outlined in paragraph 8 when real property installed equipment is involved.
        2.2.2. Code environmental deficiency work requirements with an “E” in the Special
        Indicator Code column in the Interim Work Information Management System (IWIMS),
        for work orders.
        2.2.3. Be notified of these environmental deficiencies by the responsible organization
        when a copy of the EDR is submitted with AF Forms 332, Base Civil Engineer Work
        Requests, to the Production Control Center (72 ABW/CEOW).
     2.3. Responsible Organization will:
        2.3.1. When notified of an environmental deficiency by 72 ABW/CEIE, take necessary
        action to correct the deficiency.
TINKERAFBI32-7003 19 JANUARY 2010                                                             3


      2.3.2. Complete section B of the EDR, explaining the action taken or to be taken, retain a
      copy and return the original to 72 ABW/CEIE within 30 days after receipt of the EDR.
      Original should be returned to 72 ABW/CEIE both hard copy and electronic copy. If
      appropriate, 72 ABW/CEIE may require the response earlier than 30 days.
      2.3.3. Send an additional copy of the EDR, with sections A and B completed, to the
      Production Control Center (72 ABW/CEOW) together with the appropriate work request
      if required by 72 ABW/CE. If work is not applicable to Civil Engineering, this copy may
      be submitted with any other project documents as appropriate to show justification in
      correcting the environmental deficiency.
      2.3.4. Keep CEIE informed on the status of the correction of the deficiency weekly until
      it is finally corrected to the satisfaction of 72 ABW/CEIE.
      2.3.5. Brief the ESOH Council semi-annually on the status of all environmental
      deficiencies with an Environmental Risk Code (ERC) of E1 or E2.
      2.3.6. Review, along with 72 ABW/CEOW, all work requirements for environmental
      deficiencies. The status of “E” coded work requirements and information on all
      identified environmental deficiencies will be made available for ESOH Council and
      ESOH Working Group (ESOH WG).
   2.4. Organizational commanders will ensure protection of both the immediate work place
   environment and protection of the total base and community environment.
3. Survey Audit Procedures
   3.1. The environmental deficiency survey, inspection, and audit program is the method by
   which 72 ABW/CEIE identifies, ensures correction, and tracks environmental deficiencies.
   Through periodic visits to base organizations, 72 ABW/CEIE personnel will pay particular
   attention to the following areas and record these deficiencies.
      3.1.1. Responsible persons’ knowledge of environmental compliance requirements,
      protective measures, emergency response, and their organization’s policies and
      procedures for environmental protection (includes all environmental permits, if
      applicable).
      3.1.2. Adequacy and condition of facilities, equipment alarms, protective systems, and
      other devices designed for environmental risk management.
      3.1.3. Condition of hazardous material (includes material containing asbestos),
      containers (tanks, drums, etc.), associated equipment and spill containment.
      3.1.4. Adequacy of procedures and practices to control exposure of personnel to
      environmental hazards or release of pollutants to the environment.
      3.1.5. Housekeeping practices.
      3.1.6. Proper separation, storage, labeling, segregation, placarding, and manifesting of
      hazardous materials and wastes.
      3.1.7. Adequacy of record keeping for environmental risk management requirements
      such as hazardous waste tracking, training records, and environmental assessments.
 4                                                   TINKERAFBI32-7003 19 JANUARY 2010


        3.1.8. Current, recurring, or imminent cases of pollution or hazard exposure which
        require prompt remedial action (including spills and asbestos incidents). Such cases will
        be brought to the attention of the supervisor in charge who must take immediate action to
        reduce the environmental risk.
     3.2. 72 ABW/CEIE will:
        3.2.1. Develop procedures and programs to survey work areas, utility systems, and
        treatment and storage facilities which have potential for environmental impact.
        3.2.2. Establish programs to survey, audit and inspect base waste disposal sites (on/off
        base), and base property as a whole, to monitor environmental hazards. Such programs
        will include the Environmental Compliance and Management Program (ECAMP),
        Installation Restoration Program (IRP), Storm Water Compliance Inspection, asbestos
        surveys, and the hazardous waste initial accumulation point (IAP) inspection program.
4. Funding, Programming, and Methods for Correcting Deficiencies
     4.1. Identifying, tracking, and correcting environmental deficiencies provide management
     with information on the relative priority of environmental problems. This information is
     used to guide decisions in the use of limited resources in correcting deficiencies.
     Programming and determining appropriate funding source and method of accomplishing
     projects to correct deficiencies is the responsibility of the responsible organization, often in
     conjunction with civil engineering programming personnel and environmental compliance
     personnel. The program is designed to set relative priorities for environmental deficiencies
     based on the knowledge and experience of industrial hygienists and
     environmental/bioenvironmental engineers and technicians. In many cases involving
     environmental deficiencies, correction is required by law. In some cases, military and federal
     services employees may be held personally liable for their decisions with regard to these
     deficiencies. A sound environmental risk management program will provide decision makers
     with the proper information to program for correcting deficiencies in accordance with the law
     and good judgment.
5. Assignment of Environmental Risk Codes (ERC)
     5.1. Environmental deficiencies will be evaluated and assigned an ERC, when applicable. If
     the environmental deficiency is also a fire, safety or health related deficiency, an appropriate
     RISK Assessment Code (RAC) will be assigned by a Fire, Safety, or Occupational Health
     representative according to AF 91-301. If neither a RAC nor an ERC is applicable to the
     given environmental deficiency, the EDR will be annotated by 72 ABW/CEIE. Evaluation
     and assignment of ERCs are made by environmental compliance personnel but other units
     may recommend a potential ERC for an environmental deficiency. An ERC may be
     determined by plotting the characteristics and consequences (I, II, III, or IV) for an
     environmental deficiency versus its potential for adverse impact (A, B, C, D, or E) onto the
     Environmental Risk Code Matrix (Table 1). The corresponding numerical value obtained
     from the table is the ERFC. Interim control measures to reduce the environmental risk will
     result in the ERC being reevaluated.
TINKERAFBI32-7003 19 JANUARY 2010                                                              5


Table 1. ENVIRONMENTAL RISK CODE MATRIX
CHARACTERISTICS                          AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
CONSEQUENCES                                 POTENTIAL
                           A                   B                   C                   D
      I                    1                   1                   2                   3
     II                    1                   2                   3                   4
     III                   2                   3                   4                   5
     IV                    3                   4                   5                   5

  5.2. Deficiency Characteristic and Consequences:
     5.2.1. Type I – Critical or Illegal. The environmental deficiency is one which:
           5.2.1.1. Causes serious or nonreversible environmental damage or a serious health or
           safety hazard.
           5.2.1.2. Results in the release of contaminants to the environment in direct violation
           of specifically mandated standards in state or federal laws, regulations, or
           instructions.
           5.2.1.3. Would require clean up costs in excess of $500,000.
     5.2.2. Type II – Dangerous or in Violation. The environmental deficiency is one which:
           5.2.2.1. Could cause significant but reversible environmental damage. No health or
           safety hazard.
           5.2.2.2. Results in the release of contaminants to the environment in violation of
           recommended state and/or federal standards.
           5.2.2.3. Would require clean up costs of between $100,000 and $500,000.
           5.2.2.4. Is a violation of administrative regulations (for example deficiencies in
           manifesting, record keeping, certification and training requirements, or environmental
           assessments) when there is no apparent, immediate risk for the actual release of
           contaminants to the environment.
     5.2.3. Type III – Careless or Improper. The environmental deficiency is one which:
           5.2.3.1. Results in the release of actual contaminants to the environment but not in
           the type or amount which violates standards or recommended standards.
           5.2.3.2. Is contrary to DoD, MAJCOM, or base goals, policies, guidelines, or
           initiatives designed to reduce adverse environmental impact or risk (for example,
           contrary to waste minimization goals).
           5.2.3.3. Would require clean up costs between $1,000 and $100,000.
     5.2.4. Type IV – Deficient or Unwise. The environmental deficiency is one which:
           5.2.4.1. Causes unsightly or undesirable results but is not a health hazard and does
           not cause environmental degradation.
 6                                                   TINKERAFBI32-7003 19 JANUARY 2010


            5.2.4.2. Is contrary to good judgement or engineering practice but does not violate
            environmental laws, regulations, instructions or recommended standards.
            5.2.4.3. Would require clean up costs of less than $1,000.
     5.3. Environmental Impact Potential:
        5.3.1. A – Occurring or Imminent. Adverse environmental impact, deficiency,
        regulatory or instructional violation, or need for cleanup is currently occurring – either
        continuously or intermittently, or will occur in a relatively short time if no action is taken
        to correct the deficiency.
        5.3.2. B – Probable.        Adverse environmental impact, deficiency, regulatory or
        instructional violation, or need for cleanup is likely to occur in time if the deficiency is
        not corrected.
        5.3.3. C – Possible.         Adverse environmental impact, deficiency, regulatory or
        instructional violation, or need for cleanup may possibly occur in time.
        5.3.4. D – Unlikely. There is a low possibility that adverse environmental impact,
        deficiency, regulatory or instructional violation, or need for cleanup will occur in the
        foreseeable future.
     5.4. ERC Descriptions:
        5.4.1. 1 – Extreme.
        5.4.2. 2 – Severe.
        5.4.3. 3 – Moderate.
        5.4.4. 4 – Minor.
        5.4.5. 5 – Negligible.
6. ERC Versus 72 ABW/CE Programming Priorities
     6.1. The approving authority from 72 ABW/CE assigns the proper priority to each work
     request according to AFI 32-1031. The following guidance is used by the Civil Engineering
     Directorate when assigning specific work priorities to work requirements which have
     assigned an ERC according to this instruction.
     6.2. For Work Orders and Contract Projects:
        6.2.1. ERC 1 – Priority I.
        6.2.2. ERC 2 – Priority II.
        6.2.3. ERC 3 – Priority III.
        6.2.4. ERC 4 and 5 – Priority IV.
     6.3. For Job Orders:
        6.3.1. ERC 1 – Emergency.
        6.3.2. ERC 2 – Urgent.
        6.3.3. ERC 3, 4, and 5 – Routine
TINKERAFBI32-7003 19 JANUARY 2010                                                             7


7. Media Versus ERC
   7.1. The natures of environmental deficiencies are such that public opinion and its
   perception of a deficiency may overshadow the actual or potential environmental impact of
   the deficiency. If such is the case, the Environmental Management Branch (72 ABW/CEIE),
   with advice from the Office of Public Affairs (72 ABS/PA) and Staff Judge Advocate (72
   ABW/JA), may changes the Environmental Risk Code of a deficiency to ensure proper
   attention is focused to correct that deficiency. If a deficiency’s ERC is modified because of
   public opinion the EDR will be so annotated.
8. Prescribed/Adopted Forms and Attachments
8.1. Prescribed Form:
      8.1.1. TINKER AFB Form 233, Environmental Deficiency Record
8.2. Adopted Form:
      8.2.1. AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                           ALLEN J. JAMERSON, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
 8                                               TINKERAFBI32-7003 19 JANUARY 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 91-202, The US Mishap Prevention Program, 20 Aug 2013
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 25 Jul 2013
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Prevention, and Health
(AFOSH) Program, 01 June 1996
OC-ALC TAFBI, Hazardous Waste Management Instruction, 4 Mar 2011
OC-ALC-TAFBI 32-7004, Hazardous Waste Management Instruction, 22 May 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
EDR— Environmental Deficiency Record
EPA— Environmental Protection Agency
ERC— Environmental Risk Code
ERMP— Environmental Risk Management Program
ESOH— Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health
IWIMS— Interim Work Information Management System
ODEQ— Oklahoma Department of Environmental Quality
RAC— Risk Assessment Code

Terms
Environmental Risk Management Program—A systematic program to identify, assess,
prioritize, correct, manage and track environmental deficiencies.
Environmental Deficiency—Any situation which when corrected would result in a reduction of
risk to the environment. Examples include sewer cross connections causing unpermitted
discharges to streams, using hazardous materials when nonhazardous materials could be
successfully substituted, improper disposal of chemical wastes on base which constitutes a
hazard and exposure to hazardous chemicals in the work place beyond acceptable limits.
Environmental Risk Code—A number (1 through 5) preceded by an “E” assigned to an
environmental deficiency according to this instruction. It establishes relative priorities for
environmental deficiencies as determined by an environmental (72 ABW/CEIE) representative in
coordination with the Bioenvironmental Engineering and Ground Safety representatives.
TINKER AFB Form 233, Environmental Deficiency Record—A written record describing
the deficiency, action required to correct it, follow-on action taken, and cross reference
information with 72 Civil Engineering Directorate (72 ABW/CEOW) Production Control Center.
TINKERAFBI32-7003 19 JANUARY 2010                                                              9


Responsible Organization—The organization with primary responsibility for the
property/material involved in the deficiency. This organization is responsible for ensuring the
problem is corrected with direction and oversight from 72 ABW/CEIE.
Risk Assessment Codes—A number (1 through 5) assigned to an occupational/health deficiency
or hazard according to AFI 91-301. It establishes the relative priority of occupational safety
hazards as determined by the Safety Office (72 ABW/SE) or Bioenvironmental Engineering
Services Flight (72 AMDS/SGPB). This instruction does not replace but rather compliments the
risk assessment code procedures contained in AFI 91-301.
Work Requirements Coded “E”—Any work requirement (work request, work order, job order,
or contract requirement) for Civil Engineering for which the main purpose is to correct an
environmental deficiency. These work requirements are coded with a special indicator code “E”
in the command use column of IWIMS (Interim Work Information Management System).
Interim Measures—Corrective action taken which reduces the environmental risk but does not
totally resolve the deficiency.
Non-reversible Environmental Damage—Damage which cannot be repaired, replaced, etc.,
(for example, a fish kill).
Mandated Standards—Standards which are prescribed by law, regulation, or instruction and
must be adhered to or a notice of violation or other enforcement action could be issued by a
regulatory agency, such as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Oklahoma Department
of Environmental Quality (ODEQ), etc.
Recommended Standards—Recommended Standards are standards which have been proposed
by regulatory agencies, but are not enforceable. Such standards are set as a guideline due to the
lack of any regulated standards for a particular media.
Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health (ESOH) Council—A forum for discussing
ESOH problems, advising the installation commander on ESOH related matters, and
recommending solutions to ESOH problems to the installation commander.
