BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                          84-103

                                                                                     17 APRIL 2013

                                                                                              History

                                                                       AIRPARK MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS INSTRUCTION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the Air Force e-publishing website
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 72 ABW/XPX                                                           Certified by: 72 ABW/XP
                                                                          (Mr. Lawrence M. Miller)
                                                                                            Pages: 4


This instruction establishes the policies, responsibilities and procedures for static displays, listed
on United States Air Force National Museum (NMUSAF) Account #3086 that are located at the
Charles B. Hall Airpark, Tinker AFB, and guidance for airpark activities, maintenance and
display changes. This establishes clear guidance on how these historic monuments are to be
maintained per AFI 84-103, US Air Force Heritage Program. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility (OPR), 72 ABW/XPX,
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction replaces previous directions used for the management of the airpark and adds
references to airpark additions which may be other than USAF. It also updates responsibilities of
tasked organizations.
1. Airpark Management
1.1. The Historical Property Custodian (HPC) for Tinker AFB is the 72d Air Base Wing
Wartime/Contingency Plans Division, 72 ABW/XPX. The HPC is responsible for all static
displays assigned to 72 ABW for accountability, any modifications to those displays,
modifications to the park and management and scheduling of the events within the airpark. This
includes, but is not limited to, any future memorials, aircraft displays, plaques, trees, flower
 2                                                          TINKERAFBI84-103 17 APRIL 2013


beds, or other type of displays within the park. The responsibility for general management of
static displays assigned to other organizations will remain with those units.
1.2. The HPC will be the single point of contact for all activities within the park. The HPC will
serve as the Real Property Facility Manager and is responsible for calling in maintenance and
repair issues to the 72 ABW Civil Engineering (72 ABW/CE) Service Call Desk. Any
organization wishing to obtain permission to conduct ceremonies, arrange visits/events, perform
maintenance or place displays or memorials as identified in paragraph 1.1 must submit the
request and justification for such actions in writing to the HCP, 72 ABW/XPX Workflow e-mail
box.
1.3. Requests for additions, deletions and/or modifications to current or future memorials,
displays, signage, etc., will be presented to the HPC to be staffed for final approval. The HPC
will provide justification for any decisions, favorable or unfavorable, in writing. New real
property work will be requested on an AF Form 332 and submitted to 72 ABW/CE Service Call
Desk for processing.
2. Responsibilities
2.1. 72 ABW/CC will appoint a qualified Historical Property Custodian (HPC).
2.2. The appointed HPC will be responsible for static display issues and will:
     2.2.1. Prepare and execute, funds permitting, a mechanism (Statement of Work) for the
     maintenance, cleaning and painting of the aircraft displays.
        2.2.2. Maintain all documentation lists/records/decisions regarding new displays.
        2.2.3. Maintain lists of contacts to ensure historical accuracy/integrity.
        2.2.4. Coordinate with 72d Comptroller Squadron (72 CPTS) and the Air Force
        Sustainment Center Procurement Directorate, Operational Contracting Division
        (AFSC/PKO), to ensure timely submission of documentation for contract support.
        2.2.5. Provide guidance on the maintenance and documentation requirements of static
        display aircraft.
        2.2.6. Annually inspect assets on static display to ensure discrepancies are properly
        identified, documented and corrected.
        2.2.7. Record all maintenance actions on AF Form 3581, USAF Museum Aerospace
        Vehicle Static Display Maintenance Log, and file in the asset continuity folder.
        2.2.8. Accomplish annual static display assessments to ensure discrepancies in the
        aerospace vehicles' structural integrity are properly identified, documented and corrected.
        2.2.9. Establish a corrosion control maintenance schedule for all aircraft static displays.
        2.2.10. Ensure the structural integrity of all static displays.
     2.3. All organizations/functions will coordinate any use, activities and matters associated
     with the airpark or access thereto with the HPC office prior to scheduling any
     events/activities.
        2.3.1. HPC will maintain an events/activity matrix/calendar for proper planning.
     2.4. The Tinker AFB Honor Guard, 72 FSS/FSVH, will have primary responsibility to
     ensure US and POW/MIA flags are properly flown from their respective flag poles. In the
TINKERAFBI84-103 17 APRIL 2013                                                                 3


   instance where the Tinker AFB Honor Guard is not available to complete the task, the 72d
   Security Forces Squadron, 72 SFS, will serve as the alternate for this responsibility.
   2.5. 72 ABW/CE will:
      2.5.1. Supply power to aircraft and surrounding grounds as required. Examples include,
      but are not limited to, externally mounted lights on the aircraft and external grounds
      lighting.
      2.5.2. Maintain the grounds and facilities within the airpark.
   2.6. 72 SFS will:
      2.6.1. Unlock the entrance to the airpark before 0800 hrs each day of the year.
      2.6.2. Lock the entrance to the airpark after sunset each day of the year.
      2.6.3. Conduct random security patrols/walk-through visits and report findings to HPC.
      2.6.4. Maintain the keys for the US and POW/MIA flagpoles at the 24-hour Visitors
      Center.
2.7. The 72 ABW Command Chief Master Sergeant,72 ABW/CCC, will provide replacement
US and POW/MIA flags.
3. Maintenance Procedures
   3.1. General management and maintenance of static displays/memorials rests with the owner
   or organization that is assigned accountability responsibility through their respective asset
   management guidance. The owner or organization is responsible for washing, painting, and
   other maintenance as required to prevent deterioration and cosmetically maintain the display.
   3.2. The 72 ABW will contract washing, maintenance and painting of its static displays
   using an established budget, approved statement of work and contracting vehicle
   recommended                                                                            by
   72 CPTS. Funds permitting, each aircraft will be washed annually; and maintenance will be
   performed to prevent deterioration and to cosmetically maintain the appearance of the
   display. The minimum goal is to paint at least one aircraft each year so each aircraft is
   repainted approximately every 5-7 years.
4. Funding
   4.1. The HPC will project and identify costs to repair and maintain static displays in the
   72 ABW Execution Plan submission. Additional costs above those identified during
   Execution Plan submission will be identified as an unfunded requirement. An Emergency
   Specialty (ESP) Code should be used to capture all costs associated with this program.
   Contact 72 CPTS/FMA to obtain a current ESP code.




                                            STEVEN J. BLEYMAIER, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
 4                                                  TINKERAFBI84-103 17 APRIL 2013


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Adopted Forms
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 3581, USAF Museum Aerospace Vehicle Static Display Maintenance Log

Abbreviations and Acronyms
72 ABW—72d Air Base Wing
72 CPTS—72d Comptroller Squadron

Terms
HPC— Historical Property Custodian
