BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                        91-203

                                                                         25 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                                          Safety

                                                                  HAZARD AND NEAR-MISS
                                                                 REPORTING PROCEDURES

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 72 ABW/SE                                                         Certified by: 72 ABW/SE
                                                                          (Mr. Dennis Kendick)
                                                                                         Pages: 9


This instruction establishes procedures and outlines responsibilities for all personnel when
reporting hazards and near-misses to management, safety and other responsible agencies on
Tinker AFB. This instruction implements procedures contained in Air Force Instruction (AFI)
91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program; AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and
Reports; and Air Force Materiel Command Supplement (AFMC SUP) 1 to 91-204, Safety
Investigations and Reports. It applies to Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard units, except
where noted otherwise. Refer recommended changes and questions about this published
document to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at the Air Force Portal.

1. General Information. This document establishes standardized procedures for all AFMC
organizations on Tinker AFB concerning reporting, investigating, tracking and documenting
perceived hazards and near-miss incidents that affect personnel and resources. All Associate
Units are encouraged to report perceived hazards and near-miss incidents IAW this instruction.
This instruction is not for reporting injuries, property damages or emergencies. All injuries and
property damages (after the fact) will be reported to unit safety representatives or 72 ABW/SE
by any available means; exceptions for 76 MXW which will be reported using the MXW 101
system (see MXWOI 91-11). Tinker Associate Units will continue to report injuries/mishaps as
indicated by their organizational guidance. Furthermore, this instruction is not for reporting
Hazardous Air Traffic Reports (HATR) or aviation High Accident Potential (HAP); these two
 2                                                 TINKERAFBI91-203 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


will continue to be reported IAW AFI 91-204. Emergencies will be reported immediately via
calling 911 or equivalent.
2. Why Report Hazards or Near-Misses. Mishap prevention depends on personnel
identifying, reporting and correcting hazards promptly and efficiently. Correcting hazards will
reduce the number of injuries and property damage experienced in a work area and greatly
supports a safe and healthful work environment. Furthermore, reporting conditions that were
corrected immediately or on-the-spot allows other organizations to have visibility of the
corrective action and supports trending within each Unit Commander/Director’s mishap
prevention program. Supervisors are the key to effective hazard and near-miss reporting;
employees must always be encouraged to report and not be discriminated against for being
involved in the safety of their work area.
3. Reporting Process for Hazards and Near-misses. Tinker AFB reporting process can be
described as a Find-Fix-Report-Review program.
     3.1. Find. Identify all perceived hazards in the work place. Identify near-miss incidents.
     3.2. Fix. Notify the supervisor, facility manager, unit safety representative or base agency
     responsible for the area the hazard is located. Immediately mitigate the identified hazard or
     near-miss condition to sufficiently prevent an injury; restrict work in the affected area if
     necessary. Supervisors and employees should work together to eliminate or mitigate hazards
     at the lowest level possible.
     3.3. Report. Report all identified hazards and near-misses, even if the hazard was eliminated
     on-the-spot. See paragraph 5 for standard reporting options.
     3.4. Review. Employees, Supervisors and Commanders/Directors should review reported
     hazards in their responsible work areas, pursue their resolution and track to closure. The goal
     for each organization to strive is no open hazards. The on-line Tinker Hazard Reporting
     System allows organizations and employees to transparently review the status of reported
     hazards.
        3.4.1. Commanders and Directors should consider using their organization’s existing
        safety structure, meetings or Voluntary Protection Program (VPP) Steering Committees
        to assist in tracking reported hazards to closure.
4. Responsibilities:
     4.1. Employees:
        4.1.1. Will know how to report a hazard or near-miss via on-line reporting, AF Form
        457, in-person or by phone call IAW paragraph 5.
        4.1.2. Always have the option of reporting a hazard anonymously.
        4.1.3. Have the right to stop work in imminent danger to life, limb, eye-sight or other
        health situations.
        4.1.4. Should report all perceived hazards and near-misses to their supervisor or the
        supervisor/person responsible for the area the hazard is located. If a supervisor or person
        responsible is not available, not responsive or is unknown, proceed by selecting a
        reporting option in paragraph 5.
TINKERAFBI91-203 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               3


     4.1.5. Should initiate short term mitigation of hazards. Short term is defined as deterring
     access or contact with the hazard until a supervisor, facility manager or a person
     responsible for the area arrives.
  4.2. Supervisors:
     4.2.1. Will mitigate reported hazards immediately. Mitigation shall be sufficient to
     either: prevent access or contact with the hazard or reduce the likelihood and severity of
     an injury to occur before corrective actions are completed. Take action immediately to
     prevent injury to personnel.
     4.2.2. Will ensure hazards and near-misses reported by their employees are entered into
     the on-line system as soon as possible and as described in paragraph 5. For Tinker
     Associate Units and contractor personnel that do not have access to the Tinker AFB
     website (i.e., CSCW-1, TFCU, etc.), the supervisor should provide the information to
     72abw.hazardrpts@tinker.af.mil for inclusion in the on-line system. Supervisors
     without access to the Tinker Air Force Base website will receive emails or written
     updates, as appropriate, until the hazard is abated.
     4.2.3. Will ensure work orders are initiated and submitted to the appropriate office.
     4.2.4. Will monitor progress of reported hazards in their work area and track to closure.
     4.2.5. Will notify, as soon as possible, all employees in the affected work area of the
     reported hazard; examples of notification are verbal, email, periodic Safety Talks, Roll
     Calls, Bulletin Board, Employee Involvement Board, etc.
     4.2.6. Will brief contractors and visitors, when applicable, on open hazards that exist in
     their work area. “Applicable” is described as, when it is reasonable that the contractors
     or visitors may be exposed to a known hazard.
     4.2.7. Will demonstrate to their employees how to report workplace hazards and near-
     misses. Unit Safety Representatives and Volunteer Safety Representatives may assist
     supervisors in completing the demonstration. Demonstration must include how to access
     the on-line reporting system, how to report on an AF Form 457 and how to contact their
     Safety Office.
         4.2.7.1. In addition to paper copies, AF Form 457s can be accessed through the AF e-
         Pubs website, http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.
     4.2.8. Should frequently encourage employees to report hazards and near-misses.
     4.2.9. Will not discriminate against an employee who reports a hazard.
     4.2.10. Should solicit employee involvement and inputs for corrective actions.
  4.3. Unit Safety Representatives (USRs):
     4.3.1. Should assist supervisors, employees and contractors in entering hazards and near-
     misses into the on-line system.
     4.3.2. Should assist supervisors in monitoring and tracking reported hazards in their
     assigned unit.
     4.3.3. Should support supervisors with notification to employees of reported hazards.
4                                                  TINKERAFBI91-203 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


       4.3.4. Should inform the unit Commander or Director monthly of reported hazards and
       near-misses.
       4.3.5. Should advocate hazard and near-miss reporting and resolution to unit supervisors,
       employees and contractors.
       4.3.6. Should assist supervisors in demonstrating to employees how to report a hazard.
    4.4. Volunteer Safety Representatives (VSRs) (if applicable):
       4.4.1. Should support supervisors with notification to employees of reported hazards.
       4.4.2. Should assist supervisors in entering hazards and near-misses into the on-line
       system. Also, assist in entering hazards written on Employee Involvement Boards
       (EIBs), if applicable, into the on-line system. It is recognized that not all items written on
       an EIB are hazards and required to be entered.
       4.4.3. Should assist supervisors in monitoring information being documented on EIBs
       and discuss employee safety concerns with supervisors.
       4.4.4. Advocate hazard and near-miss reporting and resolution to shop or office
       supervisors and employees.
       4.4.5. Should assist supervisors in demonstrating to employees how to report a hazard.
    4.5. Facility Managers:
       4.5.1. Will assist in the mitigation, upon request of a supervisor, or assume responsibility
       for mitigation for hazards reported in assigned facility areas that do not have a supervisor.
       4.5.2. Will abate facility hazards as soon as practical or initiate the necessary forms and
       submit to the appropriate offices to be abated.
       4.5.3. Will update the status of facility hazards reported in their facility in the on-line
       Tinker Hazard Reporting System. At a minimum, provide comments on the description
       of corrective action, which will accomplish the corrective action and expected duration to
       closure.
       4.5.4. Track facility hazards to closure.
    4.6. Action Officers:
       4.6.1. Will be assigned by an investigating officer or Hazard Reporting Program
       Manager. Most action officers will receive notification of assignment by email generated
       from the Tinker Hazard Reporting System. Training slides are accessible in the
       “Training” tab in the Tinker Hazard Reporting System.
       4.6.2. Will take action to fix and abate assigned hazards.
       4.6.3. Will enter actions taken into Part II of the Tinker Hazard Reporting System within
       10 working days; continue to update actions and status of hazard report until hazard is
       either reassigned or closed.
       4.6.4. Should enter Points of Contact, Work Order Numbers, Project Numbers,
       Description of Actions Taken, Estimated Completion Dates and any other pertinent
       information. Action Officers should enter enough information that anyone can readily
       understand the status of the hazard without a phone call or face-to-face meeting.
TINKERAFBI91-203 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                              5


  4.7. 72 ABW/SE:
     4.7.1. Will manage the hazard reporting program.
     4.7.2. Will validate hazards and near-misses reported from units in 72 ABW, OC-ALC
     Directorates and Staff Offices, and Tinker Associate Units. For safety related hazards,
     the assigned safety manager will investigate as soon as possible, but not greater than one
     (1) duty day for imminent danger situations, three (3) duty days for potentially serious
     situations, and 10 duty days for lesser conditions.
     4.7.3. Will contact the individual who submitted the report (if known), and advise
     supervisors or action officers on the development of mitigation and corrective actions
     required on a valid hazard.
     4.7.4. Will validate traffic safety hazards that affect the base populous.
     4.7.5. Will assign a Risk Assessment Code (RAC) to valid hazards and monitor
     corrective actions until the hazard is abated.
     4.7.6. Will train individuals on how to report a hazard or near-miss and the applicable
     requirements of this instruction during provided Supervisor Safety Training, Unit Safety
     Representative and New Employee Training courses; or when requested.
  4.8. 76 MXW/SE:
     4.8.1. Will validate hazards and near-misses reported from units in 76 MXW. For safety
     related hazards, the assigned safety manager will investigate as soon as possible, but not
     greater than one (1) duty day for imminent danger situations, three (3) duty days for
     potentially serious situations, and 10 duty days for lesser conditions.
     4.8.2. Will contact the individual who submitted the report (if known), and advise
     supervisors or action officers on the development of mitigation and corrective actions
     required on a valid hazard.
     4.8.3. Will assign a Risk Assessment Code (RAC) to valid hazards and monitor
     corrective actions until the hazard is abated.
     4.8.4. Will train individuals on how to report a hazard or near-miss and the applicable
     requirements of this instruction during provided Supervisor Safety Training, Unit Safety
     Representative and New Employee Training courses; or when requested.
  4.9. 72 ABW/CE:
     4.9.1. Will train new Facility Managers on the requirements identified in paragraph 4.5.
  4.10. 72 ABW/CEF:
     4.10.1. Will validate reported hazards that require Fire Protection functional expertise.
     The assigned fire prevention manager will investigate as soon as possible, but not greater
     than one (1) duty day for imminent danger situations, three (3) duty days for potentially
     serious situations, and 10 duty days for lesser conditions.
     4.10.2. Will contact the individual who submitted the report (if known), and advise
     supervisors or action officers on the development of mitigation and corrective actions
     required on a valid hazard.
 6                                               TINKERAFBI91-203 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


        4.10.3. Will assign a Risk Assessment Code (RAC) to valid hazards and monitor
        corrective actions until the hazard is abated.
     4.11. 72 MDG/SGPB:
        4.11.1. Will validate reported hazards that require Occupational Health functional
        expertise. The assigned occupational health manager will investigate as soon as possible,
        but not greater than one (1) duty day for imminent danger situations, three (3) duty days
        for potentially serious situations, and 10 duty days for lesser conditions.
        4.11.2. Will contact the individual who submitted the report (if known), and advise
        supervisors or action officers on the development of mitigation and corrective actions
        required on a valid hazard.
        4.11.3. Will assign a Risk Assessment Code (RAC) to valid hazards and monitor
        corrective actions until the hazard is abated.
     4.12. Contractors:
        4.12.1. Should report all perceived hazards and near-misses to the supervisor/person
        responsible for the area that the hazard is located or use any of the available methods in
        paragraph 5.
5. Hazard or Near-miss Reporting Options. There are five (5) ways to report a hazard; 1)
notify supervisor; 2) enter into the on-line Tinker Hazard Reporting System; 3) call Safety; 4)
notify a safety manager in person; or 5) complete an AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report. No
matter how a hazard or near-miss is reported, the hazard or near-miss will be entered into the on-
line system for tracking purposes.
     5.1. Notify Supervisor, Facility Manager, or Unit/Volunteer Safety Representative
     (USR/VSR).
        5.1.1. Supervisors must ensure hazards and near-misses reported by their employees are
        entered into the on-line system as soon as practical.
     5.2. Enter into the on-line Tinker Hazard Reporting System.
        5.2.1. Access     the     on-line    system          at      the      following      link:
        https://wwwmil.tinker.af.mil/reportahazard
        5.2.2. Take the time to be very specific on identifying the location. This information is
        critical so that a functional expert can quickly find and validate.
            5.2.2.1. Filling in one’s name, organization and contact information (optional) will
            further allow a functional expert the opportunity to quickly respond.
            5.2.2.2. Anonymous reporting is available using the on-line system. When a
            submitter does not include their name, neither Safety Office personnel nor anyone
            accessing the system can identify who submitted. The only base office that could
            possibly identify a submitter would be 72d Communications Directorate’s network
            security office. This would only be necessary in a rare case of classified or criminal
            information being submitted into the system.
        5.2.3. Accurately describe the hazard or near-miss being reported.
TINKERAFBI91-203 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                            7


     5.2.4. The system will automatically deliver the reported hazard or near-miss to either 72
     ABW/SE or 76 MXW/SE. A safety professional (or functional expert) will be dispatched
     to validate.
        5.2.4.1. The system will provide the submitter a Hazard ID Number to be used in
        viewing the reported hazard and tracking the status to closure.
        5.2.4.2. Functional experts will update the status in the on-line system.
        5.2.4.3. The submitter may at any time access the current status of the hazard report
        with the Hazard ID Number through the on-line system. The submitter (if known)
        will be contacted by a safety professional (or functional expert) to discuss the
        reported hazard. After initial contact, no additional communication from the 72
        ABW/SE or 76 MXW/SE offices will be provided to submitters. In the case of
        persons in organizations that do not have access to the Tinker AFB website (i.e.,
        CSCW-1, TFCU, etc.) they will receive emails or written mail updates, as
        appropriate, for identified hazards. For those personnel who have access to the
        Tinker AFB website, but choose to identify the hazard through some means other
        than on-line, an email will be sent containing the Hazard ID Number for use in
        accessing the current status of the hazard report.
        5.2.4.4. If no contact information is given, then it will be the individual’s
        responsibility to locate the hazard by location and description of the hazard in the on-
        line system for status.
  5.3. Contact 72 ABW/SE, 76 MXW/SE or your unit’s Safety Office directly and/or in-
  person.
     5.3.1. 72 ABW/SE can be contacted at 739-3263 or 739-3264. Also, a submitter can call
     739-SAFE (739-7223) and leave a message on the hot line voice message system.
     Written mail may be directed to 72 ABW/SE and processed through the base mail
     system.
     5.3.2. 76 MXW/SE can be contacted at 739-3064. Written mail may be directed to 76
     MXW/SE and processed through the base mail system.
     5.3.3. Safety Offices/safety professionals upon receipt will enter the hazard into the on-
     line reporting system.
        5.3.3.1. If name and contact information is provided, the individual will be sent an
        email containing a Hazard ID Number allowing an individual to track the status of the
        submitted hazard in the on-line system. If no contact information is given, then it will
        be the individual’s responsibility to locate the hazard by location and description of
        the hazard in the on-line system for status.
  5.4. Complete an AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report.
     5.4.1. Forms can be obtained via Air Force e-Pubs website, http://www.e-
     publishing.af.mil.
     5.4.2. Take the time to be very specific on identifying the location. This information is
     critical so that a functional expert can quickly find and validate.
 8                                                 TINKERAFBI91-203 25 SEPTEMBER 2013


            5.4.2.1. Filling in one’s name, organization and contact information (optional) will
            further allow a functional expert the opportunity to quickly respond.
        5.4.3. Accurately and legibly describe the hazard or near-miss being reported.
        5.4.4. The form shall be delivered by any available means to any local safety office (to
        include 72 ABW/SE, 76 MXW/SE, 3CCG, 38 CEG, 507 ARW, 552 ACW, etc.) or any
        safety professional.
        5.4.5. Safety Offices/safety professionals upon receipt will enter the hazard into the on-
        line reporting system.
            5.4.5.1. If name and contact information is provided, the individual will be sent an
            email containing a Hazard ID Number allowing an individual to track the status of the
            submitted hazard in the on-line system. If no contact information is given, then it will
            be the individual’s responsibility to locate the hazard by location and description of
            the hazard in the on-line system for status.
6. Definitions.
     6.1. Hazard. A condition, procedure or practice that creates a potential for producing death,
     injury, illness, fire, or property damage.
     6.2. Near-miss. An unplanned event with the potential to result in death, injury, illness, fire,
     or property damage. Also could be referred to as a “close call” or “near collision.”
6.3. Imminent Danger. Loss of life, limb, eye-sight or health will happen.
     6.4. Potentially Serious Situations. Loss of life, limb, eye-sight, health or serious injury
     could or may happen.




                                               STEVEN J. BLEYMAIER, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
TINKERAFBI91-203 25 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                 9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Reference
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2009
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 05 August 2011
AFI 91-202 AFMC SUP 1, The Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 11 November 2005
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
