    IC-1 TO TINKERAFBI91-310, Lockout/Tagout (Hazardous Energy), 27 May 2008
    15 December 2008
    These changes have not been integrated into the basic publication. The reader must use
    this IC in conjunction with the publication and these changes take precedence.



* SUMMARY OF CHANGES
. This instruction has been updated to clarify current procedures and document procedural
  changes. Publication has been updated to reflect recent changes in AFI 33-360,
  Publications and Forms Management.

*   Paragraph 2.4., delete in its entirety and replace with: Supervisors whose equipment
    requires specific written energy control procedures shall maintain a controlled original of
    the Tinker AFB (TAFB) Form 493, Lockout/Tagout (Control of Hazardous Energy)
    Worksheet, (see paragraph 3.4.), to be used in the event the posted copy is destroyed or
    lost.

*   Paragraph: 3.3., delete in its entirety and replace with: Identifying Equipment Requiring
    LO/TO. Equipment that operates using one or more sources of energy, such as
    electrical, mechanical, thermal, pneumatic, hydraulic, chemical, or other energy, (i.e.
    gravity) requires LO/TO during service or maintenance. The only exception is
    equipment with a single electric cord and plug, which when unplugged completely de-
    energizes the equipment, and is under the exclusive control of the servicing employee.
    However, if the equipment is left unattended during maintenance, LO/TO requirements
    shall apply.

*   Paragraph 3.4., delete in its entirety and replace with: Documentation of Energy Control
    Procedures. This instruction contains general written energy control procedures.
    Specific written energy control procedures must be developed for all equipment
    (exception: equipment with an electric cord and plug as noted in paragraph 3.3
    above). It is sometimes not readily apparent that a machine has a source of residual or
    stored energy; therefore, supervisors with the assistance of operators, engineering support
    personnel, and equipment maintainers must ensure all energy sources for equipment are
    identified.

*   Paragraph 6.1.1., delete in its entirety and replace with: Examine the equipment to locate
    the energy sources and energy isolating devices. Refer to Tinker Form 493 for the energy
    control procedures. Only authorized employees who are trained and knowledgeable of
    the types, magnitude, and hazards of the energy to be controlled, and the means to control
    it, will perform the LO/TO procedures.

*   Paragraph 8.1., delete in its entirety and replace with: Authorized employees and their
    supervisors shall be trained on the purpose and function of the LO/TO program,
    recognition of applicable hazardous energy sources, the type and magnitude of the energy
    in the workplace and the procedures for energy isolation and control. Authorized
    personnel will also be trained on the limitations of a tagout system. Supervisors of
    authorized personnel shall supplement formal training with additional instruction to
    ensure all required elements are fully provided. Supervisors will also ensure authorized
    employees are fully informed on the requirements in this instruction and applicable
    directives referenced in this instruction. Supervisors will maintain a current lesson plan
    for the training they provide. Formal training and supervisors’ supplemental training is
    required initially and annually, or more frequently if there is a change in job assignment,
    machinery/equipment or processes that present a new hazard, or energy control
    procedures.

*   Paragraph 8.2., delete in its entirety and replace with: Affected employees and
    supervisors, who have responsibility for equipment on which energy control procedures
    will be used, shall be trained on the purpose and function of the LO/TO program and the
    procedures set forth in this instruction and applicable directives referenced in this
    instruction. Training is required initially and annually.

*   Page 12, Attachment 1, Abbreviations and Acronyms,
    72 ABW/SE—72d Air Base Wing/Safety Office (formerly OC-ALC/SE)
    AF—Air Force
    AFMAN—Air Force Manual
    AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
    AFOSHSTD—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
    CFR—Code of Federal Regulation
    LO/TO—Lockout/Tagout
    OC #—Oklahoma City number
    OC-ALC—Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center
    OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
    OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
    SE—Base Safety Office
    TAFB—Tinker Air Force Base
                      *Attachment 3

LOCKOUT TAGOUT (CONTROL OF HAZARDOUS ENERGY) WORKSHEET
MARK A. CORRELL, COLONEL, USAF
Commander 72 Air Base Wing
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                                 91-310
                                                                                            27 MAY 2008
                                                                          Certified Current 21 June 2012
                                                                                                  Safety

                                                                  LOCKOUT/TAGOUT (HAZARDOUS
                                                                            ENERGY CONTROL)

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-Publishing.af.mil (will convert to www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF Link)
                       for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 72 ABW/SE                                        Certified by: 72 ABW/SE (Lt Col Thomas Painter)
Supersedes TINKERAFBI91-310, 15 Apr 2000                                                  Pages: 19

This instruction is consistent with Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 29 Code of
Federal Regulation (CFR) 1910.147, The Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout) and Air Force
Occupational Safety and Health Standard (AFOSH STD) 91-501, Chapter 21, Hazardous Energy Control
(Lockout/Tagout) and Mishap Prevention Signs and Tags. The criteria in this instruction are based on the
Air Force’s minimum safety requirements for the control of hazardous energy during servicing and/or
maintenance and during installation and removal of machines and equipment. It defines terms, describes
conditions and minimum procedures for lockout and tagout, and outlines the requirements for inspections
and training. This instruction applies to all Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) organizations on
Tinker Air Force Base (TAFB) whose personnel are required to operate, service, or maintain machinery or
equipment, and to those whose jobs require them to work in an area in which service or maintenance of
machinery or equipment is performed. This instruction does not apply to aircraft cockpit lockout/tagout
procedures that are governed by aircraft technical data. Maintain records created as a result of prescribed
processes IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of them IAW the AF Records Dis-
position Schedule (RDS) at https://AFRIMS.amc.af.mil. Contact supporting records managers as
required. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF
Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate organizational chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision reorganizes the
paragraph arrangement of this instruction (throughout); organizational titles and functional address sym-
bols have been updated (throughout). Current procedures are clarified and procedural changes are docu-
mented. Publication has been updated to reflect recent changes in AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management.
2                                                                 TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008


1. General Information.
    1.1. Employees Addressed under the Program. There are three types of employees considered when
    complying with lockout/tagout (LO/TO) requirements. They are the Authorized, Affected, and all
    other employees.
    1.2. This instruction does apply to equipment awaiting repair for parts; however, it does not apply to
    portable equipment and machines, which are placed in an inactive status awaiting turn-in. A lock can
    be placed on inactive equipment to secure the controls, but it cannot be a red colored lock. Addition-
    ally, the condition and status of the inactive equipment must be clearly identified using a sign or tag
    (i.e. “Awaiting Turn In”).
    1.3. This instruction does not cover minor tool changes and adjustments, and other minor servicing
    activities, which take place during normal production operations if they are routine, repetitive, and
    essential to the use of the equipment for production, provided that the work is performed using alter-
    native measures, which provide effective protection for the person performing the work. The first
    level supervisor, with the assistance of the organizational process engineer or the 72d Air Base Wing
    Safety Office (72 ABW/SE) (SE), will determine what falls under the above guidelines.
    1.4. Energy sources must be locked or tagged out during normal production operations if:
       1.4.1. An employee is required to remove or bypass a guard or other safety device.
       1.4.2. An employee is required to place any body part into an area on a machine or piece of equip-
       ment where work is actually performed upon the material being processed (point of operation) or
       where an associated danger zone exists during a machine operating cycle.
    1.5. Each affected organization will establish procedures to ensure effective implementation of a haz-
    ardous energy control program. Procedures may be established at wing or lower level. The procedures
    must include adequate energy control measures, employee training, and inspections. Proper imple-
    mentation of this instruction will ensure the safety of personnel who perform any service or mainte-
    nance on equipment where the unexpected start-up or release of stored energy could occur and cause
    injury.
    1.6. Established requirements for control of hazardous energy during servicing and maintenance of
    equipment are critical to the safety of maintenance personnel. All energy sources that have the poten-
    tial to cause injury to personnel during maintenance or servicing will be locked out or effectively
    tagged out for inspection, maintenance, or servicing actions. If guards or other safety devices are
    removed or bypassed from a machine for inspection, maintenance, or servicing, or if a machine is out
    of service due to ordering of parts, LO/TO procedures will apply.
    1.7. OSHA recognizes that some servicing operations must be performed with the power on, such as
    making many types of fine adjustments or centering the belt on conveyors. Effective protection when
    employees perform such operations is required. It is also recognized that some workplaces will have
    unique requirements for energy control. These organizations must maintain a detailed written LO/TO
    program to cover their unique hazardous energy control procedures.
    1.8. Organizations will ensure that whenever major replacement, repair, or modification of equipment
    is accomplished, and whenever new equipment is installed, energy isolating devices for such equip-
    ment are designed to accept a lockout device.
TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008                                                                               3


   1.9. Compliance. All employees are required to comply with the requirements set forth in this instruc-
   tion. No employee, upon observing equipment that has been locked/tagged out, shall attempt to start,
   energize, or use that equipment. No employee shall remove or bypass an energy control lock of any
   color, unless applied by that person. Failure to comply with LO/TO procedures may result in serious
   injury or death to personnel or damage to government property and will not be tolerated. Supervisors
   at all levels are expected to take swift and appropriate action in all instances of non-compliance.

2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. Tinker AFB AFMC organizations will identify all equipment that requires LO/TO as described in
   this instruction. SE provides assistance in this effort, when required.
   2.2. Workplace supervisors possessing such equipment will:
       2.2.1. Determine effective hazardous energy procedures, with assistance from the group process
       engineer and/or the SE.
       2.2.2. Ensure personnel training requirements are met and maintain a current lesson plan for the
       training they provide.
   2.3. Supervisors of authorized personnel shall supplement formal training with additional workplace
   specific instruction to ensure all required elements are fully provided. Supervisors will also ensure
   authorized employees are fully informed of the requirements in this instruction; AFOSHSTD 91-501,
   Chapter 21; and any additional organizational-specific procedures.
   2.4. Supervisors whose equipment requires specific written energy control procedures should main-
   tain a controlled original of the Tinker Form 493, Lockout/Tagout (Control of Hazardous Energy)
   Worksheet, (see paragraph 3.4.), to be used in the event the posted copy is destroyed or lost.

3. General Procedures.
   3.1. Lockout is the safest and preferred method for controlling hazardous energy and will be used
   whenever energy isolating devices are capable of accepting a lockout device. There are a myriad of
   lockout devices for virtually any type of energy isolating device and any source of energy. It is the ser-
   vicing organization’s responsibility to identify and procure the appropriate devices and quantities
   required.
   3.2. Tagout is an alternate method for controlling hazardous energy, but will be used alone ONLY
   when energy isolating devices are incapable of being locked out because of design.
       3.2.1. When tagout is used in lieu of lockout as a means of energy control, additional measures
       (such as removal of an isolating circuit element, blocking of a controlling switch or opening of an
       extra disconnecting device) must be implemented to ensure that tagout will provide the same level
       of employee protection as a lockout. Extreme caution must be exercised when tagout is used
       alone to control hazardous energy. Servicing personnel may contact SE for assistance in
       determining additional protection measures.
       3.2.2. A laminated tag with a self-locking and non-releasable attachment (i.e., nylon or plastic zip
       tie strap) must be attached in such a manner to interfere with the operation of the energy isolating
       device. Simply applying a warning tag, such as the Air Force (AF) Form 979, Danger Tag; AF
       Form 980, Caution Tag; AF Form 981, Out of Order Tag; or AF Form 982, Do Not Start Tag, to a
       machine is not an adequate measure of protection and does not meet the OSHA requirements of
4                                                                   TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008


       durable and substantial (paragraph 4.) and is not recognized at Tinker as an official tagout (see
       paragraph 6. for tagout procedures).
    3.3. Identifying Equipment Requiring LO/TO. Equipment that operates using one or more sources of
    energy, such as electrical, mechanical, thermal, pneumatic, hydraulic, chemical, or other energy, (i.e.
    gravity) requires LO/TO during service or maintenance. The only exception is equipment with a sin-
    gle electric cord and plug, which when unplugged completely de-energizes the equipment, and is
    under the exclusive control of the servicing employee.
    3.4. Documentation of Energy Control Procedures. This instruction contains general written energy
    control procedures. Specific written energy control procedures must be developed for all equipment
    that has multiple energy sources or unique hazardous energy control procedures. It is sometimes not
    readily apparent that a machine has a source of residual or stored energy; therefore, supervisors with
    the assistance of operators, engineering support personnel, and equipment maintainers must ensure all
    energy sources for equipment are identified. Note: No specific written energy control procedures are
    required for equipment meeting all the requirements detailed in OSHA 1910.147 (c)(4)(i). Generally,
    equipment operating on only one source of energy is excluded from the requirement for specific writ-
    ten energy control procedures.
       3.4.1. Specific written energy control procedures will be documented on Tinker Form 493
       (Attachment 3). The equipment owning supervisor, with assistance from SE, engineering, or
       other support personnel, is responsible for ensuring procedures are developed and correct. The
       Tinker Form 493 must be completed prior to the equipment being put into service. This form is
       available at www.e-Publishing.af.mil. The form will be completed and managed as follows:
           3.4.1.1. The equipment owning organization will complete page one by listing all energy iso-
           lating device types and locations, all sources of stored energy, the methods of LO/TO, and the
           means to verify a zero energy state; page two contains pre-printed energy shutdown and resto-
           ration procedures. Information must be specific to ensure that every switch, valve, and other
           device that delivers energy to the machine is identified. A properly documented form will con-
           tain clear instructions necessary to safely control all sources of energy for the specific piece of
           equipment.
           3.4.1.2. The Tinker Form 493 must be current, legible, and readily accessible to authorized
           and affected personnel. It is recommended that the completed form be placed in a document
           protector or plastic bag to protect it from the environment and maintained on the equipment to
           which it applies for as long as the equipment is in service. If it is impossible to maintain the
           form directly on the equipment due to environmental conditions (heat, humidity, chemical
           tanks, etc.), it may be maintained using the alternate method discussed in the next paragraph;
           however, written approval must be obtained by SE and the letter must be maintained in the log
           book. Note: It is recommended that a controlled master copy be maintained by the supervisor
           to aid in the replacement of the posted copy, should it become damaged or misplaced.
           3.4.1.3. The alternate method utilizes a log book system to identify the applicable equipment
           and the corresponding Tinker Form 493, which must be maintained in the log book when using
           the alternate method. Metal tags with identification that will withstand the adverse environ-
           mental conditions must be placed on the equipment and tracked on a log that is maintained in
           the workcenter. The log book must be readily accessible to affected personnel and authorized
           maintenance servicing personnel who perform the LO/TO procedures.
TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008                                                                            5


           3.4.1.4. A completed copy of the Tinker Form 493 will be furnished to the servicing organiza-
           tion that performs the LO/TO procedures. This copy will be maintained in the appropriate
           equipment folder.
       3.4.2. In cases of identical equipment with identical power sources, the same LO/TO procedure
       must be documented on separate Tinker Forms 493 for each machine, with the machine Oklahoma
       City number (OC #) or other identification indicated on the Tinker Form 493.
       3.4.3. When changes occur in the equipment, process, or energy control procedure, or when
       equipment is relocated, worksheets will be promptly revised to reflect changes.

4. Locks and Tags. Authorized employees will use specific locks, tags, and other necessary hardware for
isolating energy during service or maintenance of equipment. Lockout and tagout devices shall be the
only devices used for controlling energy, shall not be used for other purposes, and shall meet the follow-
ing requirements:
   4.1. Durable. Lockout and tagout devices shall be capable of withstanding the environment to which
   they are exposed (heat, cold, humidity, corrosion, etc) for the maximum period of time the exposure is
   expected. Tagout devices shall be constructed and printed so that exposure to weather conditions or
   wet/damp locations or corrosive environments will not cause the tag to deteriorate or the message on
   the tag to become illegible. Paper tags do not meet durability requirements and will not be used. See
   Attachment 2 for examples of commercially available tags.
   4.2. Standardized.
       4.2.1. Locks will be individually keyed RED padlocks and have a maximum of two keys. No two
       locks will use the same key and master keys are prohibited. The supervisor of authorized person-
       nel will control one key.
       4.2.2. Tags will be standard plastic tags with energy control wording and space in which to anno-
       tate pertinent information, including the name and contact phone number of the servicing
       employee. Tags must clearly indicate that the equipment is locked out. Commercially available
       energy control tags that meet the OSHA requirement are recommended.
   4.3. Substantial. Lockout devices shall be substantial enough to prevent removal without the use of
   excessive force or unusual techniques. Tagout devices, including their means of attachments, shall be
   strong enough to prevent inadvertent or accidental removal. Tagout device attachments shall be of a
   non-reusable type, attached by hand, self-locking, and non-releasable with a minimum unlocking
   strength of no less than 50 pounds and having the general design and basic characteristics equivalent
   to a one piece all environment-tolerant nylon cable tie.
   4.4. Identifiable. Lockout devices shall be accompanied by a tag, which indicates the identity of the
   employee applying the device. Additionally, the red lock shall be etched with the shop OC # or a
   unique organizational number and a number which identifies the red lock to the authorized employee
   or organization responsible for applying the device. If a checkout system is used, a checkout log must
   be available and annotated with adequate accountability information. See Attachment 4.
   4.5. Locks. Authorized employees may be issued a red lock and accompanying tag for their own use.
   Supervisor will maintain a written record of what lock is individually issued to which employee. If
   additional red locks are required, authorized employees will check them out as needed from their
   work center. The supervisor or the authorized employee will document checked-out locks and individ-
6                                                                 TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008


    ually issued locks that are left on equipment overnight on the TAFB Form 494, Lockout/Tagout Log,
    (Attachment 4). When a checked-out lock has been applied in a lockout, the authorized person who
    applied it will keep the key until the lockout is completed. When not in use, the key will be kept with
    the lock and will be controlled by the shop supervisor.
    4.6. Temporary Procedures. AF Form 979, Danger Tag; AF Form 980, Caution Tag; AF Form 981,
    Out of Order Tag; and AF Form 982, Do Not Start Tag. These tags are standard Air Force forms
    intended to be used as temporary means to warn of danger, to caution personnel, or provide other
    information about specific hazardous conditions or defective equipment. AF tags do not meet the
    requirements for hazardous energy control and are not to be used in lieu of official LO/TO
    devices; they will only be used until official lockout or tagout can be accomplished by an autho-
    rized person. Owning supervisors will apply the appropriate tag to equipment requiring service in
    strict accordance with the operational situations described in AFOSHSTD 91-501, Chapter 21, until it
    can be locked out by an authorized servicing employee. These forms must be ordered online through
    the Air Force Portal at https://www.my.af.mil.
    4.7. Using Locks to Prevent Access. The use of a lock on an energy isolating device for reasons other
    than service or maintenance is not covered by the LO/TO standards. Occasionally, supervisors might
    place a lock on an energy isolating device to prevent access. For example, equipment may be located
    in an area where unauthorized persons have access to it. To prevent the use of the equipment by unau-
    thorized personnel, the supervisor may place a lock on the equipment’s energy isolating device. When
    equipment access is locked for this reason, the lock must be accompanied by a tag, such as AF Form
    982, annotated with the responsible point of contact and wording, such as “Locked to Prevent Unau-
    thorized Access”. In such conditions, brass (uncolored) locks must be used and it must be clear that
    the equipment is not locked out for service or maintenance.

5. Equipment Requiring Immediate Repair. If a piece of equipment needs immediate repair and the
operation of that piece of equipment would create a hazardous condition, it is the responsibility of the
workplace supervisor or designated affected employee to secure the equipment by attaching an AF Form
979, Danger Tag, (in accordance with paragraph 21.4.5.2 of AFOSHSTD 91-501) to the equipment to
warn all potential equipment operators that operation of the equipment is dangerous and is not allowed
until necessary repairs are made. The malfunctioning equipment will be reported to the applicable servic-
ing organization for LO/TO and required repairs.

6. General Energy Control (LO/TO) Procedures. Authorized service or maintenance personnel will
adhere to the following minimum LO/TO procedures. Organizational procedures will include each of
these elements, but will be as stringent and explicit as necessary to ensure personnel and equipment
safety.
    6.1. Applying Energy Controlling Measures. Before starting service or maintenance, notify affected
    employees, including the supervisor of the work area, that a lockout or tagout is going to be imple-
    mented and for what reason.
       6.1.1. Examine the equipment to locate the energy sources and energy isolating devices. On appli-
       cable equipment, refer to Tinker Form 493 for the energy control procedures. Only authorized
       employees who are trained and knowledgeable of the types, magnitude, and hazards of the energy
       to be controlled, and the means to control it, will perform the LO/TO procedures.
TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008                                                                           7


      6.1.2. Take the necessary steps to shut down the equipment and isolate the energy by activating
      switches, valves, off buttons, etc. See reverse side of Tinker Form 493.
      6.1.3. Dissipate or restrain residual or stored energy with the appropriate methods. (i.e., reposi-
      tioning, blocking, bleeding down, etc.)
      6.1.4. Apply lockout and tagout devices.
      6.1.5. Verify isolation of the energy source and de-energization of the equipment by testing the
      operating control. CAUTION! Ensure no personnel are exposed during this step. Once
      de-energization of the equipment is verified, return operating controls to the off or neutral
      positions.
   6.2. Restoring Machinery to Normal Operation. Each lockout or tagout device affixed to any equip-
   ment for the purpose of service or maintenance will be removed ONLY by the authorized person who
   affixed it. Note: Only one exception to this requirement is allowed. See paragraph 7.2. for special
   instructions.
      6.2.1. After servicing or preventive maintenance is complete and machinery is ready to resume
      normal operations, authorized employees will ensure all tools have been removed, guards are rein-
      stalled, and personnel are in the clear before LO/TO devices are removed. See reverse side of
      Tinker Form 493.
      6.2.2. Remove lockout or tagout device.
      6.2.3. Restore energy to the equipment and verify its operation.
      6.2.4. Authorized employees will notify all affected personnel, including the production supervi-
      sor that locks and tags have been removed and the machine is back in service.

7. Special Energy Control (LO/TO) Procedures.
   7.1. Restoring Machine for Temporary Start-Up/Testing. Whenever it becomes necessary to remove
   LO/TO devices to temporarily start up a machine for testing or component repositioning, restoration
   procedures shall be performed by the authorized employee. In those instances, strict adherence to the
   following sequence of actions must be accomplished to ensure personnel safety:
      7.1.1. Clear the machine of nonessential items and ensure machine components are operationally
      intact.
      7.1.2. Notify affected employees that the lockout devices are about to be removed and ensure per-
      sonnel are positioned safely.
      7.1.3. Remove the LO/TO device(s) in accordance with paragraph 6.2.
      7.1.4. Energize the equipment and accomplish testing/troubleshooting or component reposition-
      ing.
      7.1.5. When testing/troubleshooting is complete and it is necessary to continue with regular ser-
      vicing or maintenance, de-energize the equipment and reapply energy control measures as out-
      lined in paragraph 6.1.
   7.2. Special Removal Procedures. During extreme cases when the authorized employee who applied
   the device becomes unavailable to remove it, and operations cannot be delayed, the device may be
8                                                                 TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008


    removed by the authorized person’s supervisor provided all of the following provisions are met. Note:
    Only the authorized employee’s supervisor can remove their lock.
       7.2.1. Supervisors must follow all program guidelines for involuntary lock removal and have spe-
       cific LO/TO training with first hand knowledge applicable to the program. The supervisor must
       document the action on the work center’s TAFB Form 494 (Attachment 4).
       7.2.2. The supervisor must verify the authorized employee who applied the device is not at the
       facility and/or cannot remove the device.
       7.2.3. Prior to removal of any authorized employee’s lock, the supervisor must ensure another
       authorized employee has attached their lock to secure the machine.
       7.2.4. The supervisor must inform the authorized employee their LO/TO device(s) were removed
       before they resume work at the facility.
    7.3. Group Lockouts and Tagouts. When servicing or maintenance is performed by more than one
    authorized employee, the following provisions must be met:
       7.3.1. One authorized employee appointed by a supervisor will have primary responsibility for a
       set number of employees working under the protection of the group lockout or tagout.
       7.3.2. The primary authorized employee will ascertain the exposure status of individual group
       members throughout the service or maintenance task.
       7.3.3. When more than one group is involved, one authorized employee will control the overall
       lockout or tagout and will coordinate affected work forces to ensure continuity and safety of the
       operation.
       7.3.4. Each authorized employee shall affix a personal lockout or tagout device to the group lock-
       out device, group lock box, or comparable mechanism before he or she begins work, and shall
       remove those devices when his or her work is complete.
    7.4. Shift or Personnel Changes. There must be an orderly transfer of lockout control to ensure conti-
    nuity of protection during shift or personnel changes. The incoming personnel will place their locks
    on prior to removal of outgoing personnel locks. For changes in shift or personnel who normally don’t
    have contact with each other, coordination will be made for proper transfer of lockout prior to the
    onset of the next shift. There is no requirement to transfer locks/tags during shift changes on equip-
    ment that is out of service for an extended time.
    7.5. Contractors and Other Outside Personnel. Contractors are responsible for their own OSHA-com-
    pliant Hazardous Energy Control (Lockout/Tagout) Program and their own locks, lockout hardware,
    and tags. It is recommended that all contractors use red locks to ensure optimum standardization in the
    facility. Contractor’s lockout devices will be identifiable back to the company and to the individual
    who applied it. Whenever contract personnel are to be engaged in activities covered by this instruc-
    tion, the government employer and the contractor shall inform each other of their respective LO/TO
    procedures. Contractors will notify government employees in the work area when they are about to
    service, lock, or tag out government equipment. The government organizations shall ensure that their
    personnel understand and comply with restrictions and prohibitions of the contractor’s energy control
    program.
TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008                                                                               9


8. Training. Authorized employees, affected employees, supervisors who have responsibility for equip-
ment on which energy control procedures will be used and other employees whose work operations are in
an area where energy control procedures may be used will receive training about the LO/TO program.
Training content and frequency is as follows:
   8.1. Authorized employees and their supervisors shall be trained on the purpose and function of the
   LO/TO program, recognition of applicable hazardous energy sources, the type and magnitude of the
   energy in the workplace and the procedures for energy isolation and control. Authorized personnel
   will also be trained on the limitations of a tagout system. Supervisors of authorized personnel shall
   supplement formal training with additional instruction to ensure all required elements are fully pro-
   vided. Supervisors will also ensure authorized employees are fully informed on the requirements in
   this instruction and applicable directives referenced in this instruction. Supervisors will maintain a
   current lesson plan for the training they provide. Formal training (provided by 72d Mission Support
   Squadron/ Education and Training Flight) (72 MSS/DPE) and supervisors’ supplemental training is
   required initially and annually, or more frequently if there is a change in job assignment, machinery/
   equipment or processes that present a new hazard, or energy control procedures.
   8.2. Affected employees and supervisors, who have responsibility for equipment on which energy
   control procedures will be used, shall be trained on the purpose and function of the LO/TO program
   and the procedures set forth in this instruction and applicable directives referenced in this instruction.
   Formal training is required initially and annually.
   8.3. Other employees, whose duties are or may be in an area where energy control procedures may be
   utilized, require awareness training that includes the prohibition relating to attempts to use equipment
   that is locked or tagged out. Training will be provided by the supervisor in the initial job safety brief-
   ing.
   8.4. Retraining will be accomplished for any group of personnel if inspections or program assess-
   ments indicate that additional training is required because of program deficiencies or lack of compli-
   ance. Training for all personnel will be documented on the AF Form 55 or electronic equivalent.

9. Inspections.
   9.1. SE will assess organizational LO/TO Programs during annual Ground Safety Inspections/Assess-
   ments. The annual inspection/assessment will include a review of the organizational written instruc-
   tions and Tinker Forms 493, training and documentation, adequacy of LO/TO equipment, and
   compliance with program requirements. The official annual ground safety report will reflect the
   results of the LO/TO program inspection/assessment.
   9.2. Self Inspection. Supervisors of authorized personnel who use LO/TO for energy control will
   ensure that an annual self-inspection of the LO/TO program and procedure is accomplished. All pro-
   gram elements, including personnel responsibilities and training, will be reviewed for compliance. In
   addition, an inspection of the actual energy control procedure will be accomplished. The following
   requirements must be met during the annual self inspection:
       9.2.1. Authorized employees in the work area will be inspected to ensure their performance of a
       LO/TO procedures is satisfactory. All authorized personnel must demonstrate that they are knowl-
       edgeable and capable of the LO/TO procedures on equipment which they service.
       9.2.2. The supervisor must ensure that a LO/TO procedure is accomplished on a variety of types
       of equipment for which the servicing work center has responsibility. Equipment with complex
10                                                                 TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008


        energy control procedures will be included. The self inspection must demonstrate that all types of
        hazardous energy are satisfactorily controlled during equipment maintenance.
        9.2.3. The inspection will be performed by an authorized employee other than the one(s) using the
        energy control procedure.
        9.2.4. Where lockout is used for energy control, the inspection will include a review between the
        inspector and the participating authorized employees of their responsibilities in the lockout proce-
        dure.
        9.2.5. If tagout, rather than lockout procedures are used for energy control, the inspector shall
        review with participating employees the limitations and risks of tagout and the additional controls
        to be used with a tagout program.
        9.2.6. The annual self-inspection results will be documented in writing on TAFB Form 495,
        Annual Lockout/Tagout Program Self Inspection Checklist, (Attachment 5) and all inadequacies
        and deficiencies corrected. Documentation shall include the name and title of the authorized per-
        son who performed the inspection, the names of employees included in the inspection, and the
        identification of the machines or equipment on which the energy control procedure was used.
        Documentation will be maintained in accordance with organizational instructions and presented
        during inspections of the LO/TO program.
     9.3. Supervisors of affected personnel and those responsible for equipment, which requires hazardous
     energy control, will accomplish an annual self-inspection of their LO/TO program to ensure program
     requirements are being met. At a minimum, the supervisor will:
        9.3.1. Ensure that personnel are trained as required and are knowledgeable of the purpose and
        function of the LO/TO program.
        9.3.2. Ensure Tinker Forms 493 are affixed to applicable equipment and that the forms are current
        and legible.
        9.3.3. The annual self-inspection will be documented on the AFMC Form 315, Supervisor Safety
        Inspection Record, and all deficiencies corrected. The documentation will be maintained in accor-
        dance with organizational instructions and presented during inspections of the LO/TO program.

10. Record Keeping. S upervisors of authorized employees will use the TAFB Form 494, Lockout/
Tagout Log, (Attachment 4) to document checked out locks and individually issued locks that are left on
equipment overnight. The workplace self inspection will be documented using the TAFB Form 495
(Attachment 5). Documentation will be maintained in accordance with organizational instructions and
presented during inspections of the LO/TO program.

11. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     11.1. Prescribed Form:
     TAFB Form 495, Annual Lockout/Tagout Program Self-Inspection Checklist
     TAFB Form 494, Tinker AFB Lockout/Tagout Log
     TAFB Form 493, Lockout/Tagout (Control of Hazardous Energy) Worksheet
     11.2. Adopted Forms:
TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008                                              11


  AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
  AF Form 979, Danger Tag
  AF Form 980, Caution Tag
  AF Form 981, Out of Order Tag
  AF Form 982, Do Not Start Tag



                                         MARK A. CORRELL, COLONEL, USAF
                                         Commander 72 Air Base Wing
12                                                           TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008


                                          Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
29 CFR 1910.147, The Control of Hazardous Energy (LOTO)
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH)
Program, 1 June 1996
AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, 7 July 2004
OC-ALC/SE policy letter, Maintaining Tinker Form 493, Lockout/Tagout (Control of Hazardous Energy)
Worksheet on Required Equipment, 17 May 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
72 ABW/SE—72d Air Base Wing/Safety Office (formerly OC-ALC/SE)
72 MSS/DPE—72d Mission Support Squadron Education and Training Flight
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFOSHSTD—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
CFR—Code of Federal Regulation
LO/TO—Lockout/Tagout
OC #—Oklahoma City number
OC-ALC—Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
SE—Base Safety Office
TAFB—Tinker Air Force Base

Definitions
Affected Employee—An employee whose job requires him/her to operate or use a machine or equipment
on which servicing or maintenance is being performed under lockout or tagout, or whose job requires
them to work in an area in which such servicing or maintenance is being performed.
Authorized Employee—A person who locks out or tags out machines or equipment in order to perform
servicing or maintenance on that machine or equipment. An affected employee becomes an authorized
employee when that employee's duties include performing servicing or maintenance covered under this
section.
TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008                                                                            13


Capable Of Being Locked Out—Machine or equipment designed with either a hasp or other attachment
or integral part to which, or through which, a lock can be affixed or machine or equipment with a built in
locking mechanism.
Completely De-energize—The act of neutralizing energy going to or within a piece of equipment or
machine. When all the energy going to or within a piece of equipment or machine has been neutralized or
released, the machine is in a "zero-energy" state.
Energized—Connected to an energy source or containing residual or stored energy.
Energy source—Any source of electrical, mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, chemical, thermal, or other
energy.
Energy Isolating Device—A mechanical device that physically prevents the transmission or release of
energy, including but not limited to the following: A manually operated electrical circuit breaker; a
disconnect switch; a manually operated switch by which the conductors of a circuit can be disconnected
from all ungrounded supply conductors and, in addition, no pole can be operated independently; a slide
gate; a slip blind; a line valve; a block; and any similar device used to block or isolate energy. The term
does not include a push button, selector switch, and other control circuit type devices.
Group Lockout Device/Group Lock Box—Allows multiple authorized personnel to individually apply
a red lock to a device during group servicing or maintenance.
Lockout—The placement of a lockout device on an energy isolating device to ensure that the energy
isolating device and the equipment being controlled cannot be operated until the lockout device is
removed.
Lockout Device—A device that utilizes a positive means, such as a lock, to hold an energy isolating
device in the safe position and prevent the energizing of a machine or equipment.
Lockout/Tagout Log—log for recording additional lock checkout.
Other—Employee– Everyone else other than Authorized or Affected employees.
Potentially Hazardous Energy Source—Energy stored or produced by electrical, mechanical, chemical,
thermal, hydraulic, pneumatic, or other energy source, such as gravity.
Portable Equipment—A piece of equipment, which by design, can be disconnected from its energy
source(s) and be relocated and reconnected to perform its designed operation.
Servicing and/or Maintenance—Workplace activities (either in repair or operational status) such as
constructing, installing, setting up, adjusting, inspecting, modifying, and maintaining and/or servicing
machines or equipment. These activities include lubrication, cleaning, clearing obstructions and making
adjustments or tool changes, where the employee may be exposed to the unexpected energizing or start-up
of the equipment or release of hazardous energy.
Tagout—The placement of a tagout device on an energy-isolating device to indicate that the energy
isolating device and the equipment being controlled may not be operated until the tagout device is
removed.
Tagout Device—A prominent warning device, such as a tag and a means of attachment which can be
securely fastened to an energy isolating device to indicate that the energy-isolating device and the
equipment being controlled may not be operated until the tagout device is removed.
14                                                    TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008


Zero-Energy State—The condition in which a machine or equipment is rendered incapable of
spontaneous or unexpected action or release of potential energy.
TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008                                  15


                                  Attachment 2

                    EXAMPLES OF COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE TAGS

Figure A2.1. Tags
16                                            TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008


                               Attachment 3

     SAMPLE LOCKOUT/TAGOUT (CONTROL OF HAZARDOUS ENERGY) WORKSHEET

Figure A3.1. LOCKOUT/TAGOUT WORKSHEET
TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008   17
18                                               TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008


                                  Attachment 4

                      SAMPLE LOCKOUT/TAGOUT LOG

Figure A4.1. LOCKOUT/TAGOUT LOG
TINKERAFBI91-310 27 MAY 2008                                       19


                               Attachment 5

  SAMPLE ANNUAL LOCKOUT/TAGOUT PROGRAM SELF-INSPECTION CHECKLIST

Figure A5.1. ANNUAL LOCKOUT/TAGOUT CHECKLIST
