   NOTICE OF EMPLOYEE RIGHT TO REPRESENTATION AT
         CERTAIN INVESTIGATIVE EXAMINATIONS


     This serves as notice to all bargaining unit employees of their statutory right
     to representation during investigative examinations. Often referred to as
     the “Weingarten right” after a 1975 United States Supreme Court decision,
     this right was extended to Federal employees by the Federal Labor
     Relations Statute.

     Statutory Requirement: 5 U.S.C. 7114 (a) (2) (B)

            An exclusive representative of an appropriate unit in an agency shall
            be given the opportunity to be represented at –
                  (B) any examination of an employee in the unit by a
                  representative of the agency in connection with an investigation
                  if –
                        (i) the employee reasonably believes that the examination
                        will result in disciplinary action against the employee; and
                        (ii) the employee requests representation.

     All bargaining unit employees are covered by this provision. Excluded from
     coverage are professional employees, employees engaged in personnel
     work, supervisors, managers or employees who have been designated as
     confidential employees.

     Unions representing members of Air Force bargaining units at Tinker Air
     Force Base include AFGE Local 916 and the International Association of
     Fire Fighters (IAFF) Local F-211.

     Investigative Examination: An investigative examination is an interview
     concerning alleged misconduct where the employee has reason to believe
     that he or she may be subject to disciplinary action. Routine work-related
     conversations, instructions or guidance given by a supervisor and
     performance reviews are examples of discussions that are not covered.

        Questions may be addressed to the Labor Relations Office at 739-3875.

OC-ALC/DPPP 27 January 2012                                  TINKERAFBVA 36-701
No releasability restrictions on this visual aid       AFMAN 36-701 and 5USC 2302
