BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                        48-107

                                                                                  14 JULY 2010

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                      CONTROL OF ANIMALS AND THEIR
                                                     DISEASES COMMUNICABLE TO MAN

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 72 AMDS/SGPM                                                    Certified by: 72 AMDS/CC
Supersedes: TINKER AFBI 48-107,                                                (Col James P Ice)
            28 Feb 1998                                                                Pages: 8


This instruction establishes local procedures for the control, registration, identification,
immunization, humane treatment and disposition of animals on Tinker AFB. This instruction
implements AFPD 48-1, Control Of Animals And Their Diseases Communicable To Man, and is
applicable to commanders and personnel of units assigned or attached to Tinker AFB, base
residents and visitors. It applies to Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard (ANG) units,
except where noted otherwise. This Tinker AFBI may be supplemented by any level, but all
supplements that directly implement this Instruction must be routed to OPR for coordination
prior to certification and approval. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/. This instruction requires that the Air Force collect
and maintain information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. The authority to do so is Title
10, U.S.C., Section 8013. System of Records Notice F168 AF SG C, Medical Record System
applies. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through publications/forms managers.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes the required quarantine period for a pet exposed to a known animal with
rabies from 180 days to 45 days.
1. EXPLANATION OF TERMS:
   1.1. Animal. Any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, except human beings.
2                                                        TINKERAFBI48-107 14 JULY 2010


    1.2. Cruelty. The imposing of pain or suffering and inadequate provisions of food, shelter or
    water.
    1.3. Livestock. Domestic animals normally kept for food, clothing or riding purposes (pigs,
    sheep, horses).
    1.4. Owner. Any person keeping or harboring an animal. An animal is considered to be
    harbored if it is fed or sheltered for 3 consecutive days or more.
    1.5. Pet or Privately-Owned Animal. Any domestic dog, cat, fish, ferret, caged rodent,
    caged bird or caged reptile kept for pleasure.
    1.6. Public Nuisance Animal. Any animal that:
       1.6.1. Molests passersby or passing vehicles or attacks people or animals.
       1.6.2. Trespasses on parks or playgrounds or is repeatedly at large (three or more
       offenses).
       1.6.3. Damages private or public property.
       1.6.4. Barks, whines, howls or makes noises in an excessive, continuous or untimely
       manner.
       1.6.5. Commits three offenses concerning sanitation.
    1.7. Wild Animal. Non-domesticated animals (skunks, raccoons, etc).
    1.8. Stray Animal. Domesticated animal that has no owner or owner is unknown (dog or
    cat).
    1.9. Vicious Animal. Any animal whose conduct or temperament constitutes an anticipated
    physical threat; such as an animal cited one time for a reported unprovoked bite.
2. ANIMALS ALLOWED ON BASE:
    2.1. The Housing Management Office will determine the type and number of pets allowed in
    base housing.
    2.2. Ferrets, birds and reptiles will not be allowed in houses or buildings that are used for
    childcare services.
    2.3. Wild animals that may be potential carriers of rabies (skunks, bats, foxes, raccoons,
    coyotes, etc.) and farm animals (pigs, cattle, etc.) may not be kept on base.
3. MINIMAL ANIMAL CARE:
    3.1. Owners will provide their animals with sufficient food and water, proper shelter from
    weather elements such as heat and ice plus veterinary care.
    3.2. No person will abuse any type of animal. The Base Veterinarian will verify or attempt
    to verify cases of cruelty to animals.
       3.2.1. Notifications of the alleged cruelty will normally be made to the 72d Security
       Forces (72 SFS) Controller, 734-3737. An AF Form 3545, Incident Report, will be
       generated and then a copy of the form will be given to the Base Veterinarian within
       24 hours (or next duty day) of the form being completed.
TINKERAFBI48-107 14 JULY 2010                                                                 3


     3.2.2. The 72 SFS will then make arrangements with the Base Veterinarian to either
     provide an escort to visit the site of abuse or to provide personnel to have the animal
     transported to the veterinarian for an examination. In most situations, the owner can
     transport the animal for examinations.
     3.2.3. The Base Veterinarian will then issue a formal memorandum to the 72 ABW/CV
     addressing the alleged abuse and recommending necessary actions to be taken. The
     memorandum will be sent through the appropriate OC-ALC Staff Judge Advocate
     authority first.
     3.2.4. The 72 ABW/CV will make all decisions regarding final actions taken against an
     owner or an alleged animal abuse offender. These decisions will be placed in a written
     memorandum and forwarded to both the owner or the offender and to the appropriate
     JAG authority.
     3.2.5. The owner or offender will be given 30 days to comply with any actions mandated
     by the 72 ABW/CV before further actions may be taken.
     3.2.6. The Base Veterinarian will maintain a record of the incident, examination and
     recommendation in the patient’s folder.
  3.3. No person will give away any live animal as a prize for, or as an inducement to enter
  any contests, game or competition.
  3.4. Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic animal will stop
  at once to render aid, report such injury or death immediately to the animal’s owner, if
  possible, and immediately notify 72d SFS. The Base Veterinarian will maintain a file of
  owners registered at the clinic identified by the numbered rabies tag.
4. IMMUNIZATIONS:
  4.1. In the interest of an effective preventive medicine program for safeguarding the health
  of the command and its employees, it is the policy of the Department of Defense to provide
  limited outpatient services so that pets belonging to military personnel may be vaccinated
  and treated for those diseases communicable to man (zoonoses). Such services will be
  provided to eligible personnel at no cost to the government and will be paid for by the owner.
  4.2. Dogs:
     4.2.1. All dogs 3 months of age or older will be immunized for rabies.             Annual
     vaccinations are required.
     4.2.2. All dogs 3 months of age or older will have a functional Home Again, Avid-Euro
     or Iso-compatable microchip placed subcutaneously between the shoulder blades and all
     owners will maintain current contact information within the company’s database.
     4.2.3. Fecal examinations for intestinal parasites are recommended annually.
  4.3. Cats:
     4.3.1. All cats 3 months of age or older will be immunized for rabies.             Annual
     vaccinations are required.
4                                                          TINKERAFBI48-107 14 JULY 2010


       4.3.2. All cats 3 months of age or older will have a functional Home Again, Avid-Euro,
       or Iso-compatable microchip placed subcutaneously between the shoulder blades, and all
       owners will maintain current contact information within the company’s database.
       4.3.3. Fecal examinations for intestinal parasites are recommended annually.
    4.4. Ferrets:
       4.4.1. All ferrets must be vaccinated for rabies and distemper with vaccines that are
       ferret-specific. The Veterinary Treatment Facility (VTF) does not provide these
       immunizations for ferrets. Proof of immunization must be presented to the VTF staff
       when registering the pet.
5. REGISTRATION:
    5.1. All pets maintained on base will be registered within 14 days of arrival or upon reaching
    3 months of age.
    5.2. Pets will be registered at the VTF, Bldg. 1133, during regular clinic hours. A file will
    be    started on each pet. Veterinary staff will confirm microchip placement and current
    vaccination status. If the animal is found to be noncompliant with base regulations, an
    appointment will be made to correct the noncompliance.
    5.3. Owners attempting to register or bring animals on base that have been determined by
    proper authorities to be vicious animals will be subject to punitive or administrative action,
    as appropriate.
6. TRANSIENT ANIMALS:
    6.1. Authorized sponsors of a rodeo, circus, pet show, field trial, horse show or other
    activities that bring animals on Tinker AFB will make arrangements with the Base
    Veterinarian regarding restrictions, regulations and requirements to be imposed. Each event
    will be considered by the Base Veterinarian on an individual basis.
    6.2. As a minimum, all owners bringing transient animals on base will provide the Base
    Veterinarian a health certificate, less than 30 days old, signed by an accredited veterinarian.
    6.3. Animals temporarily housed in the temporary lodging facilities are required to be
    current on rabies and other species-specific immunizations.
7. VETERINARY TREATMENT FACILITY (VTF):
    7.1. Current Department of Defense regulations and the availability of veterinary personnel
    determine the extent of veterinary services that can be provided to animals owned by active
    duty and retired military personnel. The Base Veterinarian will establish hours of operation.
    7.2. The VTF is operated primarily as an outpatient clinic, for the purpose of administering
    required immunizations, diagnostic services and treatment of diseases which are an actual or
    a potential threat to the health of the command and its government-owned animal population.
    7.3. All biologicals and medications used for disease control or treatment of privately-owned
    animals will be at the owner’s expense.
TINKERAFBI48-107 14 JULY 2010                                                                  5


8. ANIMAL FACILITIES:
  8.1. All animal facilities on base will receive quarterly sanitary inspections by the Base
  Veterinarian. These facilities include, but are not limited to, the military working dog
  kennels and buildings that house caged pocket pets, such as the Child Development Center
  and the Youth Center.
  8.2. Any new construction of kennel areas will have the written approval of the Base
  Veterinarian as to location and construction to ensure that medical, hygienic and public
  health standards are met.
  8.3. Animals introduced into kennel areas or facilities will be free of all signs of contagious
  or infectious disease. It is highly recommended that the animal be quarantined a minimum of
  14 days in an area physically separate from other animals.
  8.4. Upon recommendation of the Base Veterinarian, any animal believed to be a serious
  health hazard to personnel or government-owned animals can be removed from the kennels
  or facilities, by order of the 72 ABW/CV.
9. ANIMAL CONTROL:
  9.1. Pet owners will:
     9.1.1. Ensure their animals are immunized, registered, micro-chipped and wear their
     vaccination tags at all times.
     9.1.2. Ensure that pets do not interfere with official reviews, ceremonies or parades and
     are kept off golf courses, playgrounds, school yards and out of swimming pool
     enclosures, food handling establishments, medical treatment facilities and areas which are
     off limits. Seeing-eye or other dogs trained to assist those with physical handicaps are
     exempt from this limitation.
     9.1.3. Maintain pets on a leash, within an enclosure or within the confines of the owner’s
     home in such a manner as not to become a nuisance or a menace.
     9.1.4. Keep un-spayed female animals in heat in isolation at the owner’s quarters until
     the heat cycle is complete.
     9.1.5. Prevent pets from indiscriminate biting, barking or any other offensive habits that
     generally would be classified as a nuisance.
     9.1.6. Be responsible for any damage to property or injury to people caused by their pets.
     9.1.7. Not keep any animal which, in the opinion of the 72 ABW/CV, constitutes a
     physical or health hazard to any other animal. Vicious animals (see paragraph 1.9) will
     not be kept. Animals kept for the purpose of fighting or trained to do so are prohibited.
     9.1.8. Give humane care and treatment to all pets.
     9.1.9. Ensure that areas or enclosures containing animals are kept in a sanitary manner,
     excrement is removed daily and odors do not become a nuisance.
     9.1.10. Ensure compliance with pet limits set by the Housing Management Office.
     9.1.11. Ensure animals are only permitted in certain designated housing areas on base.
6                                                          TINKERAFBI48-107 14 JULY 2010


       9.1.12. Not breed animals for sale or profit or maintain a privately-owned boarding
       kennel.
       9.1.13. Ensure proper disposition of pets upon their death or prior to PCS. Animals will
       not be left unattended for extended periods of time due to leave or TDY.
    9.2. The Base Veterinarian will:
       9.2.1. Be responsible for administering a program of zoonoses control and
       immunizations.
       9.2.2. Issue quarantine instructions for all pets involved in biting incidents.
       9.2.3. Provide registration procedures for animals and maintain records of vaccinations
       and treatment.
       9.2.4. Determine if any animal constitutes a physical or health hazard and pass
       recommendations to 72 ABW/CV.
    9.3. 72d Security Forces Squadron (72 SFS) will:
       9.3.1. Enforce penalty provisions.
       9.3.2. Pick up, impound or arrange with local authorities to place under quarantine any
       animal that has bitten any person or that is suspected by the Base Veterinarian as being
       afflicted with rabies. The direction of the Base Veterinarian will be followed concerning
       the place of confinement and duration of quarantine.
       9.3.3. Provide the Base Veterinarian with information copies of all AF Form 3545,
       Incident/Complaint Report, that involve severe bites, nuisance animals or alleged abuse
       reports.
       9.3.4. Treat animals in a humane manner.
    9.4. 72d Civil Engineer Directorate (72 ABW/CE) will:
       9.4.1. Capture wild animals on base and contact Base Veterinarian for disposal
       recommendations.
       9.4.2. Remove dead, stray or wild animals found on base in accordance with established
       directives.
10. PUBLIC HEALTH:
    10.1. Wild Animals: Wild life diseases will be monitored periodically by the Base
    Veterinarian to determine the prevalence and incidence of zoonotic diseases among wild
    animals on Tinker AFB.
    10.2. Rabies Suspects – Privately-Owned Animals: When animals owned by military
    personnel are involved in a human bite/scratch, the Base Veterinarian will determine if the
    animal will be quarantined at home or at a state-authorized quarantine facility for the 10-day
    observation/quarantine period. The animal owner will be responsible for the cost of off-base
    quarantine and for the cost of any necessary immunizations during the observation period. If
    a suspect animal shows signs of rabies during the 10-day period the animal will be
    euthanized and samples will be submitted for laboratory examination.
TINKERAFBI48-107 14 JULY 2010                                                                  7


  10.3. Rabies Suspects - Vicious or Threatening Stray or Wild Animals: 72 SFS will be
  notified of any stray or wild animal involved in a human bite/scratch incident. 72 SFS will
  take immediate steps to capture and impound the animal. Such animals will not be killed
  unless they cannot be safely captured alive. The Operations Officer or Chief, Security
  Forces, will be empowered to decide if an animal must be destroyed. If it is necessary to kill
  such animals, care will be taken not to destroy or injure the head and the carcass will be
  immediately delivered to the VTF during duty hours or contact the on-call veterinarian. If
  the animal killed or captured is a wild animal, 72 SFS will notify Base Natural Resources
  Manger (72 ABW/CEANO) who will, in turn, notify the Civil Engineering Pest Management
  Unit (72 ABW/CEOI). The USDA Department of Wildlife at (405) 239-0843 can be notified
  to assist in difficult cases.
  10.4. Disposition of Dead Animals: Owners are responsible for the proper disposal of dead
  animals.
     10.4.1. Dead animals may be buried in an authorized off-base pet cemetery.
     10.4.2. Dead animals may be taken to the local pound.
     10.4.3. Disposing of dead animals in trash cans or dumpsters is prohibited.
11. ANIMAL BITES:
  11.1. Any person on base receiving a bite/scratch with penetration of the patient’s skin
  involving a warm-blooded animal will report immediately to an off-base emergency room or
  contact his/her primary care manager at the 72d Medical Group for an acute care
  appointment. If the attending physician determines that a potential rabies exposure has
  occurred, the victim or sponsor will provide all information required for completion of DD
  Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite-Potential Rabies Exposure. The DD Form 2341 will be
  immediately forwarded to base Public Health Office (72 AMDS/SGPM) at (405) 736-2199
  who will contact the Base Veterinarian.
  11.2. When a privately-owned animal is involved in a bite or scratch incident, the Base
  Veterinarian will then contact the owner of the animal to determine the type of quarantine
  that is necessary and any vaccinations that may need to be administered to the animal. The
  Base Veterinarian will maintain close contact with the off-base quarantine officials and
  immediately notify the Public Health Officer of observed clinical signs in any quarantined
  animals. No animal undergoing quarantine will be killed or moved elsewhere during the
  quarantine period without the approval of the Base Veterinarian.
  11.3. Domestic, vaccinated dogs, cats or ferrets exposed (i.e. bitten) to a known rabid animal
  or a suspect animal that cannot be tested, must be effectively quarantined, so the animal
  cannot escape or come in contact with persons or other animals. The animal should be
  revaccinated immediately after exposure, then quarantined for 45 days to observe for
  symptoms. For animals allowed home quarantine, the owner must notify the Base
  Veterinarian at the first sign of any clinical abnormality. The Base Veterinarian will
  determine if home quarantine can be allowed.
  11.4. Domestic, unvaccinated dogs, cats or ferrets exposed to a known rabid animal or a
  suspect animal that cannot be tested, should be immediately destroyed. If the owner is
  unwilling to have this done, the animal must be placed in an off-base quarantine for a total of
8                                                        TINKERAFBI48-107 14 JULY 2010


    6 months (180 days). It is highly recommended that post-exposure rabies vaccination be
    given on days 0, 7 and 14 of the quarantine. At the end of the quarantine period, the animal
    may be released if no signs of rabies have developed. The animal should be re-vaccinated
    against rabies prior to release.
12. PENALTIES:
    12.1. Military violators of the prohibitory and mandatory provisions of this instruction may
    be subject to appropriate action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice or administrative
    action. Civilian violators may be subject to appropriate administrative or judicial action.
    12.2. Violations of requirements in the instruction will result in removal of an animal from
    the base, and may result in revocation of the owner’s rights to retain any animals on base.
    The 72 ABW/CV may ban any animal from the base, if it is deemed a health threat by the
    Base Veterinarian.




                                            ALLEN J. JAMERSON, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
