BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                        44-081

                                                                            19 JANUARY 2010

                                                                                        Medical

                                                        SPECIAL NEEDS IDENTIFICATION
                                                             AND ASSIGNMENT PROCESS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publicahing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 72 MDG/SGOW                                                      Certified by: 72 MDG/CC
                                                                           (Col Robert J.Marks)
                                                                                        Pages: 7


This publication implements responsibilities, policies and procedures for the special needs
identification and assignment process care at Tinker AFB. The provisions of this instruction
apply to all organizations and individuals assigned to Tinker AFB. This publication does not
apply to Air Force Reserve or Air National Guard units or members. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Changes of Publication; route AF IMT 847s
through publications/form managers. Ensure all records created as a result of process prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. The Installation Commander.
       1.1.1. Ensures that all active duty sponsors comply with requirements to report to Special
       Needs Identification and Assignment Coordinator (SNIAC) personnel any family
       members’ special medical and educational conditions in order to support Exceptional
       Family Member Program (EFMP) enrollment and assignment coordination functions.
       1.1.2. Ensures inter-agency, base-wide outreach and support activities to military
       personnel regarding the identification of special needs in family members and referrals
       for needed services.
2                                                   TINKERAFBI44-081 14 JANUARY 2010


       1.1.3. Has responsibility for the cross-functional operations and effectiveness of the
       installation SNIAC/EFMP process.
       1.1.4. Authorizes family member relocations at government expense against medical
       recommendations.
       1.1.5. Ensures this installation instruction is reviewed and updated annually if needed to
       ensure coordination among Military Personnel Flight, Civilian Personnel, the Medical
       Treatment Facility (MTF), Airman and Family Readiness and others as deemed locally
       appropriate, e.g., Force Support Squadron, Command Support Staffs, Family Member
       Housing, TRICARE and Services Division.
    1.2. The Installation Staff Chaplain.
       1.2.1. Encourages staff and chapel organizations to support special needs activities,
       counseling and provide ministries as needed.
       1.2.2. Refers Active Duty (AD) family members with special needs members to the
       Special Needs Coordinator (SNC) for services as needed.
    1.3. The Staff Judge Advocate.
    1.3.1. Provides legal assistance to active duty sponsors regarding government-sponsored
    family member travel and the legal rights of family members with special medical and/or
    educational conditions when requested.
       1.3.2. Provides legal advice regarding the establishment or revision of Memorandums of
       Understanding/Agreement with outside agencies, as requested by the SNC.
       1.3.3. Advises commanders on investigatory, administrative and disciplinary actions
       when notified of an alleged violation of the Family Member Relocation Clearance
       (FMRC) process.
       1.3.4. Advises MTFs on the applicable age of majority for consent to obtain medical
       treatment and to release health information.
           1.3.4.1. Provides consultation and training, upon request, to the medical staff and
           MTF SNIAC staff on the law as it relates to reproductive rights, mental health,
           substance abuse treatment, Privacy Act and Health Insurance Portability and
           Accountability Act.
    1.4. Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC), Military Personnel Section (MPS) and the
    Commander’s Support Staff (CSS).
       1.4.1. Ensures all AFPC, MPS and CSS staff members receive training on EFMP and
       responsibilities that support the SNIAC process to assist sponsors with family members
       with special medical or educational needs. Ensures those who process assignments are
       trained in Family Member Relocation Clearance processes for both CONUS and
       OCONUS travel.
       1.4.2. Coordinates all applications for EFMP Reassignments/Deferments with the unit
       commander and the MTF.
       1.4.3. Ensures notification to the losing and gaining Special Needs Coordinators and
       FMRC Coordinators of EFMP reassignment request results.
TINKERAFBI44-081 14 JANUARY 2010                                                             3


     1.4.4. Ensures the establishment of Assignment Limitation Code “Q” for each identified
     sponsor at the request of the Special Needs Coordinator appointed at the installation
     where the sponsor’s personnel functions reside.
     1.4.5. Ensures all outbound active duty sponsors not previously enrolled in EFMP are
     queried regarding the presence of special needs family members prior to the issuance of
     orders for permanent change of station relocation.
  1.5. Civilian Personnel Flight, Gaining Human Resources Office.
     1.5.1. Ensures all civilian personnel offered employment overseas are informed of the
     family member relocation clearance process prior to travel with family members.
     Ensures applicants are informed that failure to participate in the screening process
     precludes government-sponsored travel of family members to OCONUS locations.
     Informs employees that overseas commands may deny logistical support to family
     members with medical needs where medical facilities and services are limited.
     1.5.2. Ensures all civilian employees planning to relocate OCONUS with family
     members are asked about the presence of special needs, are educated on the DoD criteria
     for special needs using DoD-authorized educational materials and are offered the
     opportunity to participate in the FMRC process.
  1.6. The Installation Commander/Director of Force Support Squadron.
     1.6.1. Ensures that the Child Development Center (CDC) and Family Child Care staff
     who work with children, aged birth to three years, are aware of and support the Sooner
     Start requirements of the state education authority, as applicable.
        1.6.1.1. Ensures children with delays or risks of delay are referred to the appropriate
        agency for further evaluation once identified. Any child receiving Early Intervention
        Services in CDCs or Family Child Care locations must be referred to the SNC for
        EFMP enrollment of the sponsor.
     1.6.2. Works with the SNC to provide information to youth program staff and to the
     Airman and Family Readiness Center staff about special needs and about referral
     procedures to assist families with special needs.
        1.6.2.1. Provides input to the SNC on services in the local area that support families
        with special needs.
     1.6.3. Provides and manages nondiscriminatory recreation activities and club programs,
     including special needs group projects, for family members with special medical and/or
     educational needs.
     1.6.4. Ensures accessibility for family members with special needs to Services’ facilities
     in compliance with public law.
     1.6.5. Addresses MPS failures of the FMRC process, such as issuing orders on Q-coded
     sponsors prior to the completion of the AF Form 1466, Request for Family Member’s
     Medical and Educational Clearance for Travel, when reported by the MTF.
     1.6.6. Provides representation to the Installation Integrated Delivery System to identify
     and assist with community level issues that impact the quality of life for families with
     special needs.
4                                                   TINKERAFBI44-081 14 JANUARY 2010


    1.7. Medical Treatment Facility Commander (MTF/CC).
       1.7.1. The MTF/CC determines the organizational location(s) of SNIAC functions within
       the MTF. The MTF/CC is responsible for aligning resources within the MTF to ensure
       adequate program support exists to accomplish the SNIAC mission.
           1.7.1.1. The MTF/CC ensures both clinical and administrative resources are applied
           to the functions of identification of special needs and the family member relocation
           clearance process.
       1.7.2. The MTF/CC maintains overall responsibility for SNIAC staffing, training,
       process delivery and process administration.
           1.7.2.1. The MTF/CC delegates clinical oversight roles to the Chief of the Medical
           Staff where appropriate.
       1.7.3. The MTF/CC works with other commanders on base to ensure sponsors and key
       agencies are participating in both the SN identification and relocation functions of
       SNIAC and address suspected violations of the processes with other commanders.
       1.7.4. The MTF/CC apprises the Installation Commander of significant service
       limitations in an area that may impact the ability to support an accompanied PCS to
       Tinker AFB.
    1.8. Chief of the Medical Staff (SGH).
       1.8.1. Maintains overall responsibility for the clinical quality and program integrity of
       the SNIAC process.
       1.8.2. Ensures all providers employed by the MTF are trained upon assuming duties and
       annually on the provisions of DoDI1315.19, including the criteria for enrollment in
       EFMP/SNIAC.
       1.8.3. Ensure mechanisms are developed within the MTF to ensure all medical providers
       proactively identify family members (FM) with Special Needs (SN) and refers to SNIAC
       for enrollment consideration without delay.
       1.8.4. Remains cognizant of network and MTF capabilities and ensures family members
       are not recommended for travel to Tinker AFB where needs exceed capabilities or where
       risk of exceeding local capabilities seems probable.
       1.8.5. Ensures outbound Facility Determination Inquiries (FDI) are clinically sufficient
       and administratively complete prior to forwarding to gaining installations.
       1.8.6. Does not clear families for travel from the losing base unless an exhaustive search
       of available medical information (including databases) confirms there are no significant
       needs outside of usual Pediatric or Primary Care Manager scope of care.
       1.8.7. Elevates service limitations to TRICARE if these limitations impact the ability of
       the installation to issue accompanied assignments.
           1.8.7.1. Ensures TRICARE makes capability assessments available to the SNC and
           FMRC Coordinator in a timely manner.
TINKERAFBI44-081 14 JANUARY 2010                                                               5


      1.8.8. Does not release or allow others to release details of the family members health
      histories to units, but can consult as needed on the SNIAC processes and general
      limitations in the network capabilities that may prevent safe accompanied assignments to
      the gaining installation.
2. Facility Determination Inquiry Procedures.
   2.1. If the AF Form 1466, Section VI C or VII is marked “yes”, then FMRC Coordinator
   will ensure an FDI package is sent to the gaining MTF for a determination on the availability
   of required services.
      2.1.1. Patient Administration will check on delayed clearances bi-weekly until a
      determination is made.
      2.1.2. Once the final determination is received, Patient Administration will forward a
      copy to Outbound Assignments for processing.
   2.2. SGH reviews all incoming FDIs and makes a recommendation regarding family
   member travel to Tinker AFB by completing Section IX of the AF Form 1466.
   2.3. The SNIAC is given the complete FDI package for return processing to inquiring MTF.
   2.4. FDI should be returned within 2 weeks after it was sent by the losing FMRC
   Coordinator.
3. Form Completion Procedures.
   3.1. All personnel will follow the requirements of AFI 40-701, Special Needs Identification
   and Assignment Coordination, in submitting information needed to support assignment
   considerations whether previously Q-coded or not.
   3.2. Outbound assignments will advise personnel with a pending PCS of the process for
   OCONUS clearances and will advise all active duty members of steps necessary to clear their
   dependents for OCONUS assignments.
   3.3. AF Form 1466 must be completed fully on family members by the sponsor and the
   entire form brought to the medical clearance process.
   3.4. AF Form 1466D, Dental Health Summary, is required for each family member two
   years old and above. If the sponsor is enrolled in the TRICARE Dental Plan, then the
   civilian dentist must complete the form. If not enrolled, the Dental Clinic at the MTF may
   accomplish this form or member may need to pay a civilian dentist to complete the form.
   This form must be completed and brought to the medical clearance process.
   3.5. DD Form 2792, Exceptional Family Member Medical Summary, is required on each
   family member to determine if special medical needs exist. This form requires input from
   the sponsor and 3 signatures by the doctor. All pages must be completed.
      3.5.1. The sponsor provides all pages of the DD Form 2792-1, Exceptional Family
      Member Special Educational Intervention Summary, for each EFMP family member ages
      3 years through 18 years.
      3.5.2. In the case of children 3 years of age and up that are not on EFMP, only page 3 of
      the DD Form 2792-1 must be completed by the public or private schools. The sponsor
      must still get this form completed by the public school even if the child is home schooled.
6                                                TINKERAFBI44-081 14 JANUARY 2010


    3.6. Once all the forms are completed, an appointment is needed for the Family Member
    Relocation Clearance. This appointment may be obtained by calling Patient Administration
    in the MTF at 736-3118 or 734-5844.




                                          ALLEN J. JAMERSON, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
TINKERAFBI44-081 14 JANUARY 2010                                  7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Reference
AFI 40-701, Special Needs Identification and Assignment Process

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
CDC—Child Development Center
CONUS—Continental United States
CSS—Commander’s Support Staff
EFMP—Exceptional Family Member Program
FDI—Facility Determination Inquiry
FM—Family Members
FMRC—Family Member Relocation Clearance
MPS—Military Personnel Section
MTF—Medical Treatment Facility
OCONUS—Outside the continental United States
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
SGH—Chief of the Medical Staff
SN—Special Needs
SNC—Special Needs Coordinator
SNIAC—Special Needs Identification and Assignment Coordinator
