BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                   TINKER AIR FORCE BASE
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                           INSTRUCTION 33-101
                                                                                   10 DECEMBER 2007

                                                                                        Communications

                                                              PUBLIC ADDRESS SOUND SYSTEM/
                                                         AUDIOVISUAL PRESENTATION SUPPORT

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil. (will convert to www.af.mil/e-publishing on AF
                       Link) for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 72 CS/CC                                              Certified by: 72 MSG/CC (Col James Eilers)
Supersedes TINKERAFBI33-101, 1 Mar 99                                                      Pages: 3

This instruction provides procedures for requesting Public Address (PA) Sound System and Audiovisual
(AV) presentation (including VHS, and LCD projection) support from the 72d Communications Squad-
ron. It is applicable to OC-ALC, all major staff offices and associate organizations at Tinker AFB. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the
field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert
to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision changes the equipment availability and operating procedures. The Tinker AFB Form 505
has been updated to reflect current equipment.

1. OBJECTIVES:
   1.1. Identify methods to obtain PA sound system/AV presentation support for official functions such
   as retirements, military awards, press conferences, VIP visits, and change of command ceremonies.
   1.2. Set up uniform, definite procedures to request PA sound system/AV presentation support.
   1.3. Establish methods to prioritize requests for official PA sound system/AV presentation support.
   1.4. Establish fund cite authorization (Will be required for contractor support outside of normal duty
   hours for anyone not in the 72ABW).

2. RESPONSIBILITIES:
   2.1. The 72 CS/SCMP Quality Assurance Evaluator or designated representative will:
2                                                        TINKERAFBI33-101 10 DECEMBER 2007


       2.1.1. Consider requests for PA sound system/AV presentation support on a case-by-case basis
       depending on the availability of equipment/manpower, and a determination of its benefit to the Air
       Force.
       2.1.2. Approve requests for official functions based on the following criteria:
           2.1.2.1. Visibility of the function.
           2.1.2.2. Dignitaries involved.
           2.1.2.3. Date support is required.
           2.1.2.4. Availability of equipment/manpower.
       2.1.3. Approve requests for unofficial functions based on a judgment of benefit to the Air Force
       after considering the following criteria:
           2.1.3.1. Visibility of the function.
           2.1.3.2. Dignitaries involved.
           2.1.3.3. Date support is required.
           2.1.3.4. Availability of equipment/manpower.
           2.1.3.5. Location of the event.
           2.1.3.6. Impact on local community.
    2.2. The contractor will provide the following support:
       2.2.1. For large, high visibility functions provide sound equipment and handle the actual setup.
       Practice sessions will not normally be held; however, exceptions may be approved for unusual cir-
       cumstances depending upon the current workload of the PA Workcenter.
       2.2.2. To meet the majority of other smaller requirements, two types of portable PA systems are
       available for loan:
           2.2.2.1. A portable PA amplifier and two speaker suitable for small, indoor groups (150 peo-
           ple or less). The speakers, microphone, and amplifier are individual components and should be
           requested concurrently if required.
           2.2.2.2. Larger portable systems are available for medium sized outdoor groups (150 people
           to 600 people). The speakers, microphone, and amplifier are individual components and
           should be requested concurrently if required.
NOTE: Podiums are not available from the contractor.
    2.3. THE REQUESTER WILL:
       2.3.1. Submit Tinker AFB Form 505, Request for Public Address Support at least 10 working
       days in advance of date support is required. This form (identified as Tinker AFB Form 505) is
       available through the Tinker Air Force Base Home Page.
       2.3.2. If support outside normal work hours or on weekends is required, a fund site may be
       required to cover contractor overtime costs.
       2.3.3. If equipment is borrowed, the requester must complete and sign an AF Form 1297, Tempo-
       rary Issue Receipt. Requester is then responsible for safeguarding the equipment, set-up, opera-
TINKERAFBI33-101 10 DECEMBER 2007                                                                     3


     tion, and take-down/return of equipment to the contractor. Any lost, damaged, or stolen equipment
     will be replaced by the requester.

3. PROCEDURES:
  3.1. Tinker AFB organizations will submit Tinker AFB Form 505 detailing PA sound system/AV pre-
  sentation support required. Contact phone numbers are on the form. The following guidelines are to be
  used to fill out Tinker AFB Form 505:
     3.1.1. Requester will complete all blocks. Incomplete forms will delay processing.
     3.1.2. If lead-time is less than 10 working days, the requester can walk the request through with a
     written letter of justification from the organizational commander or deputy.

4. SUPPORT CAPABILITY:
  4.1. PA support requires close coordination between requesting organizations, 72 CS/SCMP Quality
  Assurance Evaluators, and the contractor. Equipment resources are available to satisfy most require-
  ments. However, short notice requirements and conflicting events tend to degrade support capability,
  and will be handled on a case-by-case basis. Items available include: LCD projectors, VHS VCR’s,
  portable projection screens, portable sound systems including amplifier, speakers with stands, wired
  and wireless microphones, stands and CD and cassette players.

5. OTHER AVAILABLE SYSTEMS:
  5.1. Base Theater PA System. The Base Theater has a portable system suitable for large groups, com-
  mander’s calls, briefings, etc. Microphones and instructions for use of the PA systems may be
  obtained from the contractor. Use of the theater must be coordinated with AAFES. Requests for sup-
  port in the base theater will be submitted according to paragraph 2.3.
  5.2. The Tinker Club and Conference Center ballrooms have permanently installed PA and video sys-
  tems suitable for most requirements. Use of the PA and video system must be coordinated with the
  Tinker Club manager when making reservations to use the facilities. PA or video support in the ball-
  rooms is not provided unless the club cannot support the requirement or it cannot be supported by the
  requesting organization. Normal request procedures (paragraph 2.3.) will be followed, and requests
  will be evaluated according to criteria in paragraph 2.1.

6. FORM PRESCRIBED. Tinker AFB Form 505.



                                             MARK A. CORRELL, Col, USAF
                                             Commander
