BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         TINKER AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                         36-820

                                                                         15 SEPTEMBER 2011
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 18 APRIL 2012

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                                       TINKER SUPERVISOR
                                                                   DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: OC-ALC/DPD                                                         Certified by: OC-ALC/DP
                                                                                (Laura A. Young.)
                                                                                        Pages: 17



This instruction defines responsibilities and establishes procedures for managing the Tinker
Supervisor Development Program (SDP). The intent of the program is to identify employees
with potential for supervision and foster their personal and career development by providing the
necessary tools to be a successful supervisor. The provisions of this instruction apply to all
employees seeking 1st-level supervisory positions within the Oklahoma City Air Logistics
Center (OC-ALC). Associate units located at Tinker Air Force Base (TAFB) and desiring to fill
1st-level supervisory positions through the SDP process may choose to participate. It does not
apply to the Air Reserve and Air National Guard units, except where noted otherwise.

This is a new publication and should be reviewed in its entirety. All records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records            Disposition           Schedule            (RDS)             located            at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm            Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force
Information Management Tool (AF IMT) 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF IMT 847s through the appropriate chain of command to OC-ALC/DP.
 2                                                                 TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The term website replaced CoP, Community of Practice. The endorsing official determines
whether or not the employee should move forward in the consideration process, rather than
determining the level of recommendation. Employees assigned to a permanent supervisory
position are not eligible to compete for entry into the program. Guidance on final candidate
ranking was reworded, clarifying the employee selection process. Employees are required to
take and pass a comprehensive exam covering required classroom training. Employee must
attend Employee Enhancement Program (EEP) while awaiting placement, unless already
completed. Mentoring requirements are further defined. A paragraph was added to address
semi-annual reviews. Guidance on suspending and removing employees from SDP was added.

        1.     Program Overview. ................................................................................................     2
Table 1.       1 SDP Competencies .............................................................................................       3
        2.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................       3
        3.     Process Overview. .................................................................................................    7

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       13

Attachment 2—SUPERVISOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PROCESS FLOW                                                                             16

Attachment 3—SUPERVISOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM DEMAND FORECAST
             FLOW                                                                                                                    17


1. Program Overview.
     1.1. The SDP is a competitive process used to identify high-potential employees who
     possess technical expertise and who have demonstrated leadership competencies. The
     program provides both formal and experiential training prior to placement into 1st-level
     supervisory positions.
     1.2. The SDP Integrated Process Team (IPT) reviewed and tailored Air Force and Office of
     Personnel Management (OPM) competencies to meet the objectives of SDP. Table 1.1 lists
     the SDP competencies and provides definition of each.
TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                3




Table 1. 1 SDP Competencies
        Competency                                           Definition
                                 Develops others through teambuilding, motivation, mentoring,
                                 coaching and instruction; demonstrates a high standard of
                                 performance and ethical behavior; inspires others to perform to
 Leadership                      successfully accomplish the mission; adapts well to new
                                 demands.
                                 Clear and concise written and oral communication skills;
                                 responds to questions persuasively and knowledgeably; listens
 Communication
                                 well and translates information into action; effectively identifies
                                 communication barriers; offers timely response and/or feedback.
                                 Awareness of the numerous types of diversity and understands
                                 the associated benefits; values and works well in a diverse
 Diversity
                                 workforce and supports equality throughout the organization.
                                 Effective use of resources; sees future problems and takes or
                                 initiates action to head them off; plans and schedules work
                                 effectively; looks ahead and based on judgments about future
 Business Management             events, takes action to improve a potential outcome without
                                 direction from others; possesses computer skills/proficiency;
                                 and handles stress accordingly.
                                 Demonstrates the ability to work well with people while
                                 recognizing the importance of the mission; shows an interest in
                                 the well-being of employees while accepting responsibility to
 Human Relations                 help people remain positive and productive through various
                                 changes; identifies source(s) of conflict and effectively diffuses
                                 the situation through negotiation skills; incorporates employee
                                 appreciation.

   1.3. The SDP encourages employees who desire to become supervisors to self-nominate
   during the annual open nomination period (reference Para 3 for details on the SDP process).
   1.4. The SDP will not discriminate for or against any employee based on race, color,
   religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, status as a
   parent or political affiliation unless otherwise permitted as lawful discrimination, due to a
   legitimate job requirement.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. Force Development Division (OC-ALC/DPD) serves as SDP Program Manager (PM):
       2.1.1. Annually, requests listing of retirement eligible 1st and 2nd-level supervisors from
       OC-ALC/DPP (Personnel Programs Division).
       2.1.2. Develops and implements a marketing plan. Maintains current program
       information on the SDP website, accessible from the Tinker home page.
4                                               TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


       2.1.3. Notifies employees of referral/non-referral based on qualification. Provides
       instructions for submission of the SDP application package to referred employees and
       organizational POCs.
       2.1.4. Requests names of Behavior Based Interview (BBI) panel members from
       organizations.
       2.1.5. Establishes BBI panels.
       2.1.6. Provides Resource Managers (RM)/Personnel Resource Officials (PRO) a
       standard set of interview questions and scoring sheet for use by BBI panels.
       2.1.7. Ranks employees based on application package rating and interview scores.
       Identifies highest-ranked employees for each series/grade, per approved quotas.
       2.1.8. Sends final selectee list to CSFs and commanders/directors for review/approval
       (reference Para 2.4.3. and 2.6.5.).
       2.1.9. Notifies employees of selection/non-selection into SDP.
       2.1.10. Schedules selected employees for SDP orientation.
       2.1.11. Receives deferment requests and grants deferments to the time allowed to
       complete the program. Refer to Para 3.11., Deferments.
       2.1.12. Schedules employees for SDP training.
       2.1.13. Updates employee training record upon completion of SDP classroom and
       experiential training.
       2.1.14. Administers StrengthFinders assessment to SDP graduates three months after
       placement in a 1st-level supervisory position.
       2.1.15. Administers a 360-degree assessment to SDP graduates within six months of
       placement in a supervisory position.
       2.1.16. Maintains list of approved mentors and provides listing to SDP graduates upon
       request.
       2.1.17. Schedules SDP graduates to attend Employee Enhancement Program (EEP),
       pending funding availability.
    2.2. Personnel Programs Division (OC-ALC/DPP):
       2.2.1. Upon request of OC-ALC/DPD, compiles listing of present and future retirement
       eligible 1st and 2nd-level supervisors.
       2.2.2. Forwards forecasted vacancies to Center Senior Functionals (CSF) and
       organizational leaders, to include 448 Supply Chain Management Wing (SCMW), for
       review/input.
       2.2.3. Utilizes CSF and organizational leader feedback to finalize forecasted vacancies
       by occupational series and grade, and then submits to OC-ALC/DPD and AFPC-OL
       Staffing for planning purposes.
    2.3. AFPC-OL Staffing (AFPC/DPIDO)
TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                          5


     2.3.1. Creates and posts an SDP program announcement for each occupational series
     identified on the list of forecasted vacancies.
     2.3.2. Generates referral listing of employees qualified for SDP.
  2.4. Center Senior Functional (CSF):
     2.4.1. Reviews forecasted vacancies sent by OC-ALC/DPP, conducts an analysis on
     vacancy forecast including workload/mission changes and succession planning to ensure
     data is accurate, makes changes where needed and forwards updated listing to OC-
     ALC/DPP.
     2.4.2. Develops/reviews functional criteria that may be used by endorsing official
     (reference Paragraph 2.9.2.). The criteria will be made available to the endorser through
     the SDP website.
     2.4.3. Reviews listing of ranked employees and resolves any concerns with
     organizational leaders prior to notification of employees regarding selection status.
  2.5. Organizational POC:
     2.5.1. Serves as organizational focal point for issues related to SDP.
     2.5.2. Monitors SDP application process through the Alexsys system.
     2.5.3. Notifies SDP PM after the organization has assigned a mentor to an SDP graduate
     placed on a supervisory position.
  2.6. Commander/Director:
     2.6.1. Reviews/approves forecasted vacancies and provides to OC-ALC/DPP any
     additional input, to include workload/mission changes.
     2.6.2. Appoints organizational POC.
     2.6.3. Ensures supervisors attend SDP informational briefings.
     2.6.4. Provides names of approved interview panel members to OC-ALC/DPD.
     2.6.5. Reviews listing of ranked employees and resolves any concerns prior to
     notification of employees regarding selection status.
  2.7. Employee:
     2.7.1. Self-nominates for SDP during open announcement. See Para 3.2. and 3.3.
     2.7.2. If referred by AFPC-OL Staffing, employee must complete an SDP application
     package per instructions provided if they wish to be further considered for the program.
     See Para 3.4.
     2.7.3. Submits SDP application to their 1st-level supervisor.
     2.7.4. Attends Supervision Decision Course (SDC) as scheduled. Completes a written
     statement during the SDC course that will be used in the BBI interview for rating
     communication.
     2.7.5. If scheduled, attends BBI interview.
6                                                 TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


       2.7.6. If desired, accesses the SDP system to view rated application package after
       receiving notification that the package is available for review.
       2.7.7. If desired, requests additional interview feedback from panel lead within 30 days
       of interview.
       2.7.8. Completes all SDP training within 12 months of selection into the SDP. Training
       requirements may be viewed on the SDP website. See Para 3.11., Deferments.
       2.7.9. Provides documentation of completed SDP experiential training to OC-ALC/DPD.
       2.7.10. Attends the Employee Enhancement Program (EEP) as scheduled.
       2.7.11. If selected for a supervisory position:
           2.7.11.1. Participates in a StrengthFinders session.
           2.7.11.2. Participates in a 360-degree assessment.
    2.8. 1st-level Supervisor:
       2.8.1. Completes SDP application package Part 1, Competencies, and Part 2, Individual
       Development.
       2.8.2. Provides application feedback to any employee submitting an application package.
       Feedback must be coordinated through the endorsing official.
    2.9. Endorsing Official (Reference Attachment 1—Terms):
       2.9.1. The endorsing official is an employee’s 3rd-level supervisor; no higher than
       group/ division level; no lower than squadron/branch level.
           2.9.1.1. In some wing/directorate structures, there is either not a third level of
           supervision or the third level is the wing/directorate commander/director. In this
           situation, the endorsing official will be the wing commander or director.
           2.9.1.2. If structures exists that are not covered by above criterion, forward details to
           the Director of Manpower and Personnel, OC-ALC/DP, for adjudication.
       2.9.2. Considers functional criteria, communicates with employee’s chain-of-command
       as required, and determines whether or not the employee should move forward in the
       consideration process. Endorsing official recommendation tools will be available on the
       SDP website.
       2.9.3. Coordinates 1st-level supervisor feedback regarding the employee’s level of
       recommendation and areas requiring further development.
    2.10. Interview Panel Lead:
       2.10.1. Attends BBI training and ensures all panel members have been trained in BBI
       techniques. Contacts OC-ALC/DPD if training is needed.
       2.10.2. Schedules employee’s BBI.
       2.10.3. Notifies employee and panel members of date, time and location of the interview.
       2.10.4. Ensures BBI method is properly and consistently applied.
TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                              7


      2.10.5. Utilizes standard set of interview questions and scoring sheet provided to the
      RMs/PROs by the SDP PM.
      2.10.6. Ensures copies of questions are available to the employee 30 minutes prior to the
      interview.
      2.10.7. Controls interview flow to ensure coverage of all questions and competencies.
      2.10.8. Ensures panel reviews and considers written statement completed by employee
      when assessing/rating the communication competency associated with BBI.
      2.10.9. Leads scoring discussion. Panels must come to consensus when determining
      final score.
      2.10.10. Ensures employee leaves copy of questions and notes as they depart from
      interview.
      2.10.11. Ensures feedback is being documented in format provided by SDP PM.
      2.10.12. Ensures additional interview feedback is provided to employee, if requested,
      within 30 days after notification of interview outcome/status.
   2.11. Interview Panel Member:
      2.11.1. Attends BBI training.
      2.11.2. Participates in BBI in accordance with SDP guidance and provides scores to
      panel lead.
      2.11.3. Provides interview feedback on the appropriate form.
   2.12. OC-ALC/DP: Evaluates and adjudicates deferment requests. See paragraph 3.11.,
   Deferments.
3. Process Overview. See Attachment 2, SDP Process Flow.
   3.1. Demand Forecast. See Attachment 3, SDP Demand Forecast Flow.
      3.1.1. Each year, OC-ALC/DPP, in coordination with the Center DP, CSFs,
      organizational leaders and resource managers, will review supervisor retirement
      eligibility and attrition data and forecast 1st and 2nd-level supervisory position vacancies
      by occupational series and grade.
      3.1.2. OC-ALC/DPP compares the coordinated vacancy listing against the current pool
      of SDP graduates. The total requirements by series and grade are identified and provided
      to AFPC-OL Staffing.
   3.2. Announcement.
      3.2.1. A program announcement will be created for each grade/series identified in the
      demand forecast. The SDP will be announced as a training opportunity and not a specific
      job vacancy.
      3.2.2. The announcement will seek local permanent Air Force employees who are
      interested in receiving leadership training which will enhance their competencies for 1st-
      level supervisory positions.
8                                                TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


       3.2.3. Employees selected to participate in SDP who are not currently assigned to the
       OC‒ALC will attend the training at their organizations’ expense.
    3.3. Self-Nomination for SDP.
       3.3.1. Employees must self-nominate in accordance with instructions provided in the
       SDP announcement. Employees will be considered for each grade/series for which they
       self-nominate.
       3.3.2. Employees who self-nominate by the closing date of the announcement will be
       rated in accordance with established merit promotion procedures.
       3.3.3. Qualified nominees will be notified and provided instructions for completing and
       submitting the SDP application package. If an employee qualifies for more than one
       series, only one application package will be required.
       3.3.4. Employees who have graduated from SDP do not need to reapply.
       3.3.5. Employees currently assigned to a permanent supervisory position (Supervisory
       Level Code 1, 2, or 3) are not eligible to compete for entry into the program.
    3.4. SDP Application Package.
       3.4.1. The SDP application package is an employee evaluation tool provided by OC-
       ALC/DPD to qualified applicants. Rating results determine which employees continue to
       compete for SDP selection. Employees should ensure the application is properly
       completed and submitted within the time requirement specified in the application
       instructions. Incomplete or late packages will result in elimination from consideration for
       SDP for that cycle.
       3.4.2. Applicants will be rated on the following: SDP competencies shown in Table 1.1,
       educational level, and BBI score. Information on the scoring process will be maintained
       on the SDP website.
       3.4.3. Application packages will be scored, endorsed and rank ordered.
       3.4.4. The CSFs and commanders/directors will approve ranking/selection prior to the
       SDP PM notifying employees about selection status.
    3.5. Supervision Decision Course (SDC).
       3.5.1. The SDC provides employees with information regarding the realities of
       supervision. The course will facilitate candidates’ decisions as to whether or not or
       he/she wants to commit to the demands of supervision.
       3.5.2. The SDC will familiarize employees on BBI techniques.
       3.5.3. After completion of the SDC, employee will complete an electronic Decision
       Declaration statement to opt in or opt out of continued SDP competition by the close of
       business on the employee’s following duty day.
       3.5.4. Employees who opt out of further competition will be eligible to apply for the next
       open SDP cycle, if desired.
       3.5.5. Employees who choose not to attend SDC will be removed from further
       consideration for the current cycle.
TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                         9


  3.6. Behavior Based Interview.
     3.6.1. Employees who opt to remain in the competition are required to participate in a
     BBI.
     3.6.2. The SDP PM will request names of BBI panel members from organizational
     leadership. All members must be trained on BBI. The SDP PM will set up the panels.
     3.6.3. Interview will be conducted by a panel consisting of three members. One member
     must be a 2nd-level supervisor; one member must be a squadron/branch chief; and one
     member must be a group/division chief. All panel members must be at least a 2nd-level
     supervisor. The BBI panel shall include a functional representative, if applicable.
     3.6.4. A minimum of one hour should be allotted for panel members to cover all
     questions/ follow-on questions and to evaluate all five SDP competencies.
  3.7. Final Candidate Ranking.
     3.7.1. DELETED.
     3.7.2. Those employees scoring highest for each series/grade, per approved quotas, will
     be selected, notified, and scheduled for SDP Orientation.
  3.8. Training and Development.
     3.8.1. Employees selected for the SDP must complete required classroom and
     experiential training elements within 12 months of program selection. Information
     regarding training and development requirements will be maintained on the SDP website.
     Experiential elements include 24 hours of supervisor immersion and 16 hours of
     supervisor job shadowing.
         3.8.1.1. Employees will be required to take and pass a comprehensive exam covering
         curriculum provided during the required classroom training.
            3.8.1.1.1. If an employee fails to pass the comprehensive exam with a score of at
            least 80 percent, they will be provided an additional opportunity to pass.
            3.8.1.1.2. If the employee fails the exam a second time, the employee will be
            removed from SDP and must re-compete for program acceptance in the sequential
            year.
     3.8.2. Employees who fail to complete training and development requirements within the
     given timeframe will be removed from the program, unless OC-ALC/DP grants a
     deferment, and will be eligible to reapply during the next SDP cycle. Reference Para
     3.11, Deferments.
     3.8.3. Employees will have the option to complete the classroom training if they have
     already completed one of the following OC-ALC programs:
         3.8.3.1. Employee Leadership Program (ELP)
         3.8.3.2. Graduate Employee Leadership Program (GELP)
         3.8.3.3. Graduate Supervisor Training Program (GSTP)
         3.8.3.4. Leader/Supervisor Development Program (LSDP)
10                                            TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


         3.8.3.5. Supervisor Training Program (STP)
     3.8.4. While awaiting placement, employees must attend EEP as scheduled by OC-
     ALC/DPD, unless already completed.
     3.8.5. While awaiting placement into a supervisory position, employee must complete an
     additional 24 hours of supervisor immersion and 16 hours of job shadowing during each
     12-month period following SDP completion.
     3.8.6. Employee may choose a mentor from a list of approved participants, as desired.
  3.9. Sustainment.
     3.9.1. Employees that graduate from SDP must self-nominate for a specific vacancy
     announcement in order to be considered for a supervisory position.
     3.9.2. SDP graduates that refuse placement on a supervisory position for which they self-
     nominated and were referred will be removed from the list of mandatory referrals for one
     year from the date they declined selection.
     3.9.3. Semi-annual review will afford organizations the opportunity to ensure their SDP
     graduates and those currently completing program requirements are continuing to
     conduct themselves in a manner appropriate with supervision. Anyone not meeting
     performance and/or conduct expectations can be removed from the program. See Para
     3.13., Removal from SDP.
  3.10. Requirements for SDP Graduates Placed on Supervisory Positions.
     3.10.1. Mentors will be identified by newly hired supervisor's organization.
         3.10.1.1. Mentors must be an experienced 1st (or relatively new 2nd) level supervisor
         familiar with the mentee's immediate work area/environment. The intent is to assign
         a mentor who is new enough to recall the challenges presented in the first year of the
         supervisory transition but with enough experience to provide solid guidance to the
         new supervisor.
         3.10.1.2. Mentors and mentees meet on an as needed basis.
         3.10.1.3. Mentors will serve a one-year term (minimum) upon being identified by the
         organization. There is no maximum term as long as both the mentor and mentee
         agree to maintain the mentoring relationship.
         3.10.1.4. Once a new supervisor has been paired with a mentor, the organization will
         provide the names of the mentor and mentee to OC-ALC/DPD.
         3.10.1.5. Organizational POC will be responsible for facilitating assignment of
         mentor and mentee pairing.
     3.10.2. SDP Graduates will participate in the StrengthFinders assessment, as
     administered by the Organizational Consulting Office (OCO), three months after
     placement in a 1st-level supervisory position.
     3.10.3. Within six months of assignment, new supervisors will participate in a 360-
     degree assessment, as administered by the OCO. The goal of this assessment is to
     evaluate individual strengths and possible areas for improvement.
TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                        11


  3.11. Deferments.
     3.11.1. Under certain circumstances, such as deployments, prolonged Temporary Duty
     (TDY) assignment or long-term illness, SDP participants may be granted a deferment to
     the time allowed to complete the program equal to the length of the absence. There is no
     maximum time allowed for deferments.
     3.11.2. Requests for deferment must be submitted through the chain-of-command in
     writing, email or letter, to OC-ALC/DPD and approved by OC-ALC/DP, Director of
     Manpower and Personnel.
  3.12. Suspension from SDP.
     3.12.1. If an employee comes under investigation where disciplinary action may be
     proposed, the agency reserves the right to temporarily suspend the employee from
     continuing in the program until the issue is resolved.
     3.12.2. An organization may request an employee be temporarily suspended from
     continuing in the program by submitting an e-mail request to OC-ALC/DP.
     3.12.3. In the event the employee is subsequently disciplined, the agency reserves the
     right to remove the employee from SDP consideration or participation based on the
     employee failing to meet or maintain those characteristics expected of supervisory
     personnel.
  3.13. Removal from SDP.
     3.13.1. When an SDP graduate or program selectee fails to demonstrate the desired
     characteristics and qualities expected of supervisory personnel and/or SDP applicants, a
     supervisor or manager within the employee’s chain of command may request the
     employee be formally removed from the SDP.
     3.13.2. A removal request in the form of an electronic staff summary sheet (eSSS) must
     be generated by a supervisor or manager within the employee’s chain of command and
     elevated for final approval. The final approving authority for submission of the request
     will be OC-ALC/CA or 448 SCMW/CL (for 448th employees only). Prior to being
     submitted to OC-ALC/CA or 448 SCMW/CL, the eSSS must be coordinated by the
     appropriate organization leadership, CSF (if applicable) and OC-ALC/DP. Once OC-
     ALC/CA or 448 SCMW/CL has made a final decision, the SDP program manager will
     notify the employee and the employee’s chain of command of the decision.
     3.13.3. The eSSS request for removal must contain the following information:
        3.13.3.1. Employee’s name, organization and office symbol.
        3.13.3.2. Name, title and phone number of the management official initiating the
        action.
        3.13.3.3. Basis for requesting removal from SDP. Briefly describe the performance
        and/or conduct that serve as the bases for the request. Include dates and cause(s) of
        action of any documented disciplinary action taken.
12                                          TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


     3.13.4. The removal request may be initiated at any time deemed necessary. Reasons for
     initiating removal from the program may include any conduct subject to disciplinary
     action.
     3.13.5. Removal of an employee from SDP under these procedures does not preclude the
     employee from applying and competing for supervisory job vacancies. Employees
     removed from SDP may also reapply for the program under a subsequent call for
     nominations.




                                        ROBERT D. LABRUTTA, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                             13


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Administrative Personnel
Executive Order 13160
AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 18 February 2006
AFMAN 36-606, Civilian Career Field Management and Development, 3 May 11
AFI 36-401, Employee Training and Development, 28 June 2002
AFI 36-1004, Managing The Civilian Recognition Program, 3 December 2009
AFMAN 36-203, Staffing Civilian Positions, 12 December 2002
AFMAN 36-606, Air Force Civilian Career Program Management, 1 December 1995
AMFCI 36- 2645 Senior Functional Roles and Responsibilities, 31 January 2011
TAFBI 36-109 Functional Management Support, 24 January 2007
OC-ALCI 36-302, Promotion Process Policy, 10 August 2010
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
AFPC—OL —Air Force Personnel Center Operating Location
BBI—Behavior-Based Interview
CSF—Center Senior Functional
EEP—Employee Enhancement Program
ELP—Employee Leadership Program
OC—ALC —Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center
GELP—Graduate Employee Leadership Program
GLSC—Global Logistics Support Center
GSTP—Graduate Supervisor Training Program
IPT—Integrated Process Team
LSDP—Leader/Supervisor Development Program
OCO—Organizational Consulting Office
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
PM—Program Manager
 14                                            TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


POC—Point of Contact
PRO—Personnel Resource Official
RPA—Request for Personnel Action
RM—Resource Manager
SDC—Supervision Decision Course
SDP—Supervisor Development Program
SCMW—Supply Chain Management Wing
STP—Supervisor Training Program
TAFB—Tinker Air Force Base
TDY—Temporary Duty

Terms
360—Degree Assessment—Internet-enabled multi-rater feedback tool
Application Package—Candidate evaluation tool provided to qualified applicants
Behavior—Based Interview—Competency-based selection tool used to identify and select
people with the right mix of knowledge and performance skills for the job. Uses past experience
as an indicator of future success on the job.
Deferment—Extension in time to complete SDP training requirements
Demand Forecast—Total SDP requirements by occupational series and grade
Endorsing Official—Candidate’s 3rd-level supervisor, no higher than group commander/
division chief, and no lower than squadron/branch Chief. If wing/directorate structure does not
include a third level of supervision, the commander/director will be endorsing official.
Experiential Training—Supervisor job shadowing and supervisor immersion
Organization—Wing/directorate level
StrengthFinders—Web-based talent assessment instrument based on the science of positive
psychology. This assessment measures the presence of talents in 34 general areas, or “themes.”
Talents are recurring patterns of thought, feeling, or behavior that can be productively
applied and naturally exist within individuals. Strengths are the ability to provide
consistent, near—perfect performance in a specific task and must be developed. Strengths are
the product that results when one’s talents are refined with acquired skills and knowledge. An
individual’s five strongest talents are their “Signature Themes” Focus.
A StrengthsFinder coaching session provides a basic understanding on the Strengths
Finders assessment. It presents how a person can make their top five strengths actionable.
When leaders are looking for ways to increase their organization's capacity, focusing on the
unique strengths of the individual members of their work teams enables leaders to find
previously unexploited capacities for increased production. Based on forty years of
research, the Clifton StrengthsFinder is an assessment instrument that unveils each
individual's realized— and unrealized - greatest strengths.
TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                     15


Through discussion and interactive exercises, participants in coaching sessions spend time
gaining a better understanding of their own strengths, learning how to recognize strengths
in others, and, most importantly— thinking through how they are specifically going to
optimize their own individual performance by operationally applying their new insights.
 16                                      TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                   Attachment 2
           SUPERVISOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM PROCESS FLOW

Figure A2.1. Supervisor Development Program Process Flow
TINKERAFBI36-820 15 SEPTEMBER 2011                                 17


                                  Attachment 3
     SUPERVISOR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM DEMAND FORECAST FLOW

Figure A3.1. Supervisor Development Program Demand Forecast Flow
