BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  TINKER AIR FORCE BASE MISSION
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                                    DIRECTIVE 38-102

                                                                                                         1 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                                              Mission Directive

                                                                                            OKLAHOMA CITY AIR
                                                                                     LOGISTICS CENTER (OC-ALC)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANADATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: OC-ALC/DPBA                                                                                 Certified by: OC-ALC/DP
                                                                                                  (Mr. William T. Swigert)
Supersedes:    TINKERAFBMD 406-00,                                                                               Pages: 34
               01 February 2003


This Publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard
(ANG) units, except where noted otherwise. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s through publications/forms
managers. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication is substantially revised due to multiple reorganizations across the Center,
resulting from both local and HQ-directed Organizational Change Requests (OCRs). The new
structure of the OC-ALC, and subsequently its revised mission, has prompted a much needed
update to this document.

       1.      Organizational Authority. ...................................................................................      2
       2.      OC-ALC mission. ...............................................................................................    2
       3.      72ABW mission: ................................................................................................   13
       4.      76th Maintenance Wing mission. ........................................................................           18
 2                                                                           TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


        5.      Command. ..........................................................................................................   30
        6.      Organizational Structure. ....................................................................................        30
        7.      Relationships to Other Units or Agencies. ...........................................................                 31
        8.      Terms Explained. ................................................................................................     31

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        32


1. Organizational Authority. This directive implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD)
10-1, Mission Directives.
2. OC-ALC mission. The OC-ALC is the worldwide manager for a wide range of aircraft,
engines, and missiles. The Center manages the B-1 Lancer, B-2 Spirit, B-52 Stratofortress,
C/KC-135 Stratotanker, E-3 Sentry and contractor logistics support aircraft such as the KC-10,
VC-25 & E-4; in addition to substantial jet engine inventory ranging from the older TF33 to the
newer, state-of-the-art engines such as the F118 and F119-PW-100. The Center performs depot
maintenance on the B-1, B-2, B-52, C/KC-135, & E-3 and overhaul and repair on numerous jet
engines, as well as being the technology repair center for automatic flight control, engine
instruments, air driven accessories, hydraulics/pneudraulic/pneumatics and oxygen and life
support.
     2.1. Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR). Establishes workplace dispute ADR policies
     and procedures designed to maintain a productive work environment. Assists individuals in
     workplace disputes to avoid or settle conflict quickly at the lowest possible organizational
     level. The ADR program promotes a variety of training opportunities in an effort to provide
     management and employees communication tools to prevent or resolve conflict. ADR
     consists of several approaches to early intervention and dispute resolution. Two forms of
     ADR used more often are mediation and facilitation. Many of these approaches include the
     use of a neutral individual such as a mediator who can assist disputing parties in resolving
     disagreements. ADR increases opportunities between parties to resolve disputes prior to or
     during the use of formal administrative procedures and litigation.
     2.2. Air National Guard Advisor (CG). Acts as the ALC focal point for Air National Guard
     (ANG) operational, logistical and modification matters and assists Air Force Reserve.
     Advises ALC Commander on logistics and operational sustainment matters impacting Air
     Reserve Forces (ARF) readiness and mobility; acts as liaison w/between ALC Wings, ANG
     field units and National Guard Bureau; monitors ARF systems and components supported by
     OC-ALC; participates in program management forums to represent ARF weapon systems;
     assesses impact of funding, workload and program management; works with system program
     managers on quality problems impacting ARF programmed depot maintenance; advises ALC
     leaders/program managers on ANG force structure, policy and processes.
     2.3. Mobilization Assistant to the Commander (CR). Backfills the commander as needed
     and augments the command section to provide the Center with around-the-clock coverage to
     meet mobilization and contingency requirements. Advises the commander on reserve
     activities with emphasis on manning, training, and readiness of assigned Individual
     Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs) to meet both peacetime and wartime requirements.
     Evaluates the effectiveness of the Center's plans and programs to implement reserve forces
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                   3


  mobilization, augmentation or support. Oversees the reserve augmentation program,
  ensuring the readiness of assigned IMAs for wartime support.
  2.4. Chief of Staff (CS). The Chief of Staff provides executive-level advice and functional
  expertise to the Center director/commander and senior management to effectively address all
  matters concerning development and application of administrative and operational policies,
  programs and management techniques to ensure efficient operation of all OC-ALC activities.
  Provides administrative, technical and management assistance to the ALC Command
  Section. Manages command section special projects. Serves as ALC focal point for
  director’s/commander’s conferences and MAJCOM days and helps formulate and articulate
  OC-ALC/CC’s message to higher headquarters.                   Provides resource management,
  correspondence control and information technology asset management support for the
  command section and manages the Anaconda and General James E. Hill Conference Center.
  Manages and maintains electronic marquee signs and controls Senior Staff parking. Plans
  and executes distinguished visitor visits, focal point for setting up and providing guidance for
  military and civilian ceremonies at all levels to include award, promotion, retirement,
  reenlistment and change of command ceremonies. Performs duties in support of visits,
  conferences, tours and social functions initiated within the command and tasked by the
  offices of the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF), Joint Chiefs of Staff, Secretary of the Air
  Force (SAF) and (CSAF). Provides Executive Director staffing for Federal Executive Board.
  2.5. Personnel Directorate (DP).          Responsible for center-level policy, planning,
  programming and resourcing initiatives across the full spectrum of force management. This
  includes strategic planning, workforce shaping, program allocation, workforce and leadership
  training and development, process improvement and standardization, Title V authorities and
  related efforts. DP serves as the principal advisors to commanders and their staff on labor
  relations matters and provides overall direction in the execution of the Labor Management
  Relations Program for the installation. DP is also responsible for providing Military
  Personnel Appropriation days in support of Tinker AFB back-filling short falls and Air
  Expeditionary Force deployments for both officers and enlisted resources to augment
  mobilized active duty positions during contingencies or war; and fills peacetime positions to
  realize cost savings and share/reduce operational tempo and obtains skills not otherwise
  available. Additionally, DP is responsible for helping increase the effectiveness of Tinker
  organizations by providing a number of services, including assessments and coaching. DP
  also serves as advisors to senior staff, management and employees on issues regarding social
  behavior and organizational effectiveness. DP Consultants are members or resources for
  base committees such as the Integrated Delivery System and the Community Action
  Information Board.
  2.6. Equal Opportunity Office (EO). Responsible for OC-ALC Equal Opportunity Program.
  Counsels employees (military and civilian), applicants for employment and former
  employees and military dependents regarding their rights and responsibilities in accordance
  with established Equal Employment Opportunity Laws. Conducts meaningful fact-finding
  inquiries, resolves disputes and continues formal processing of claims alleging discrimination
  because of race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, reprisal, physical or mental
  disability and/or genetic information. Provides education and training in an effort to
  minimize discrimination complaint activity. Conducts Unit Climate Assessments, focus
  groups and surveys to gather feedback in order to report specific trends, perceptions/attitudes,
4                                                       TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


    to Commanders/Directors.            When     appropriate,    refers   individual    to   other
    organizations/agencies.
    2.7. Engineering & Technical Management Directorate (EN). Enhance warfighter support
    as the science and engineering lead for systems engineering, technology insertion, weapons
    system integrity, test and evaluation, scientists and engineers workforce development,
    engineering data, technical orders and software system support, nuclear stewardship
    oversight, and serve as the trusted advisor for all engineering and technical policies.
    2.8. Financial Management Directorate (FM). The Director is the Chief Financial Officer
    for the OC-ALC and the trusted advisor on all matters financial ensuring compliance with the
    provisions of the Chief Financial Officers Act and Anti-Deficiency Act legislation.
    Responsible for the overall financial management of appropriated and Depot Maintenance
    Working Capital Fund accounts. Performs in-depth analyses that support budget preparation,
    execution reporting, re-programming actions and account closeout processes. Accomplishes
    business case analyses/economical analyses that provide viable strategic business solutions to
    decision makers that support weapon system acquisition and sustainment initiatives – the
    choice provider of superior cost, schedule and risk analysis to all customers. Prepares the
    Economic Impact Assessment detailing the economic impact of Tinker AFB on the state and
    metropolitan economies. Manages financial personnel across the center enterprise to include
    force development, resource requirements, career development, certification reviews,
    mentoring and awards. FM is the focal point for financial policy, propriety and procedures
    for the OC-ALC. Serves as the Center liaison with the Defense Finance and Accounting
    Services on accounting issues and policies.
    2.9. Aerospace Sustainment Directorate (GK). Responsible to the OC-ALC Commander for
    organizing, directing, and controlling total life-cycle management of 66 B1, 76 B52, 447
    C/KC135, 466 contractor logistics aircraft (including tanker, trainer, telemetry, airlift,
    command & control and US Presidential aircraft), and the new KC-X Aerial Refueling
    Tanker. Responsible for all modifications and sustainment, including management and
    engineering of systems upgrades, acquisition of new systems, fleet support logistics, software
    maintenance, and programmed depot maintenance and supporting USAF, Reserve & Guard,
    sister services, and numerous Foreign Military Sales forces. Manages readiness of 20 B2 and
    65 E3 aircraft, 1,382 Air Traffic Control and Landing Systems and worldwide High
    Frequency Global Communications Network. Serves as the Air Force Program Manager for
    sustainment and Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E) for B1, B-52,
    C/KC135, KC10, C9, C21, C20, C12, E-9, T43, VC25 (AF1), T-1A, UV-18, Air Force
    Academy, and E4B aircraft. The 327th acts as the single manager for all propulsion
    sustainment issues for OC-ALC and the USAF by providing worldwide support of assigned
    aircraft engines operated by the Air Force, Army Navy, Marine Corps, federal agencies, and
    multiple foreign countries. Has OSS&E responsibility and provides core program, financial,
    contract, and supply chain management support for the F100, F101, F107, F112, F108, F110,
    F118, T33, J69, J79, J85, T56, TF34, TF39, T400, and T700 engines. Supports requirements
    generated by the Department of Defense and other Federal agencies to provide a rapid
    deployment capability and flexibility to deploy skilled contract field team technicians on site
    anywhere in the world to support the government's war readiness and posture planning needs.
       2.9.1. Combat Systems Sustainment Division (GKA). Responsible to the GK Director
       for serving as OC-ALC Manager for all phases of aircraft management, modification and
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                 5


     repair for B-2 and KC-X weapon systems. Responsible to the GK Director for serving as
     the OC-ALC cradle-to-grave manager for the Air Traffic Control and Landing System
     (ATCALS) program and the High Frequency Global Communications System.
        2.9.1.1. ATCALS Branch (GKAA).            Responsible to the Combat Systems
        Sustainment Division Chief for serving as the OC-ALC focal point for the USAF
        ATCALS program, subsystems, and peculiar support equipment to USAF, other
        Department of Defense components and the Federal Aviation Administration.
        Provides logistical and engineering support for centrally managed USAF ATCALS.
        Provides complete system management support to users of the assigned system.
        Acquires new technology ATCALS to replace unsuitable legacy systems.
        2.9.1.2. B-2 Bomber Branch (GKAB). Responsible to the Combat Systems
        Sustainment Division Chief as the System Sustainment Manager for the B-2. Serves
        as the Performance Based Logistics Product Support Integrator responsible for
        integrating all Weapon System Supply Chain Management efforts. Provides
        technical, logistics, and engineering support. Manages the B-2 Weapon System
        Support Center and associated Software Laboratories.
        2.9.1.3. HF Communications Branch (GKAC). Responsible to the Combat Systems
        Sustainment Division Chief for acquiring and sustaining a high-powered, high
        frequency (HF) global communications network for the USAF and joint war fighter.
        The HF Global Communications System is the DoD’s world-wide high powered, HF
        global command and control network providing beyond line of sight interoperable
        voice and classified and unclassified data communications for National Command
        Authority, strategic, tactical, and air mobility forces.
        2.9.1.4. Combat Systems Contracting Branch (GKAK). Provides contracting
        oversight and acquisition support for the Division’s acquisition, sustainment, and
        modernization requirements for B-2, B-1, E-3A, HF Global Communications, and
        ATCALS workload.
     2.9.2. B-1 Sustainment Division (GKB). Responsible to the GK Director as the System
     Program Manager (SPM) for the B-1 weapon system. Manages readiness and provides
     logistical, modification, engineering, and technical support for the B-1 aircraft system.
     Provides complete system management support to users for the assigned system.
        2.9.2.1. B-1 Logistics Support Branch (GKBL). Responsible to the B-1 Division
        Chief for providing technical and systems engineering support to the B-1 Community.
        Manages the overall engineering effort as well as all technical order content and
        management activities for the B-1 weapon system. Activities include mishap,
        incident, and deficiency report investigations, conducting studies to enhance aircraft
        availability and maintainability, developing repairs and repair procedures, and
        assisting the B-1 Chief Engineer to ensure operational, safety, suitability, and safety.
        2.9.2.2. B-1 Modification Support Branch (GKBM). Responsible to the B-1
        Division Chief for managing the modification programs (both hardware and software)
        and tracking cost, schedule, and performance impacts. Responsible for the business
        infrastructure for the SPM to include cross-cutting integration function and financial
        management.
6                                                  TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


       2.9.2.3. B-1 Production Support Branch (GKBN). Responsible to the B-1 Division
       Chief for monitoring and executing overall logistics support for the B-1 weapon
       system. Serves as the Weapon System Supply Chain Manager responsible for the
       strategic and tactical operation of the weapon system. Manages the programmed
       depot maintenance program, the reliability and maintainability program, and the
       diminishing manufacturing source program ensuring proper operation and
       maintenance, effective supply systems, field utilization and maintenance trends.
    2.9.3. C/KC-135 Sustainment Division (GKC). Responsible to the GK Director as the
    System Program Manager (SPM) for the C/KC-135 weapon system. As the C/KC135
    SPM, GKC is responsible for organizing, directing, and controlling total life-cycle
    management for a fleet of 447 aircraft across 10 different Mission Design Series (MDS).
    This includes development, acquisition modification, logistics, and engineering support,
    software maintenance, and programmed depot maintenance of the weapon system
    supporting eight MAJCOMs and numerous Foreign Military Sales forces. Manages an
    annual budget in excess of $1.13B. Maintains aircraft Operational Suitability, Safety,
    and Effectiveness (OSS&E). Performs analyses and process responses to Congressional
    and Air Staff inquires.
       2.9.3.1. C/KC-135 International Program Branch (GKCI). Responsible to the C/KC-
       135 Sustainment Division Chief for planning, organizing, directing, and controlling
       program activities required to manage acquisition and follow-on support for all
       C/KC-135 international customers. Functional objective is to ensure all C/KC-135
       FMs acquisitions and follow-on support programs are successfully accomplished in
       accordance with international policies. Serves as the interface between international
       and United States Governments, ensuring that all tasks indicated in the Letter of Offer
       and Acceptance are implemented. Ensures quality performance is accomplished on
       schedule and within budget. Integrated logistics are applied to determine manpower,
       facilities, financial, supply, support equipment, engineering and maintenance. Plans
       and manages modifications, warranties, and technical assistance in support of C/KC-
       135 International Programs Branch.
       2.9.3.2. C/KC-135 Contracting Branch (GKCK). Responsible to the C/KC-135
       Sustainment Division Chief for providing contracting oversight and acquisition
       support for the C/KC-135 acquisition, sustainment, and modernization requirements.
       2.9.3.3. C/KC-135 Logistics Support Branch (GKCL). Responsible to the C/KC-135
       Sustainment Division Chief for leading aircraft structural integrity, system safety and
       functional integrity programs for the group. Provides accurate, up-to-date technical
       orders to the war fighter and manages the group Deficiency Reporting and
       Investigation Program. Provides technical support for AF and Defense Logistics
       Agency managed spare parts. Ensures fleet completion of time compliance technical
       orders. Serves as the Weapon System Supply Chain Manager (WSSCM), responsible
       to the C/KC-135 Sustainment Division Chief for promoting, fostering, and
       introducing improvements into the Air Force supply chain aimed at improving
       weapon system availability through parts availability as well as overseeing fleet
       logistics support for C/KC-135 aircraft. Group focal point for management of the
       Aircraft Availability Improvement Program (AAIP). Provides logistics assistance to
       all DoD activities, International Logistic Program countries, and other government
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                               7


        agencies for items used on the C/KC-135 fleet. Provides program oversight for
        Readiness Spares Package, Spares Requirements Review Board, and special item re-
        procurement programs. Performs Air Vehicle Distribution Officer responsibilities for
        the fleet. Orchestrates reclamation of spare parts from Aerospace Maintenance and
        Regeneration Group.
        2.9.3.4. C/KC-135 Modification Branch (GKCM). Responsible to the C/KC-135
        Sustainment Division Chief for providing development, program management,
        engineering, and logistics support along with air worthiness and configuration control
        oversight of acquisition and modification programs for C/KC-135 fleet operated by
        eight MAJCOMs. Ensures effective acquisition and modification management to
        include all elements of cost, schedule, performance, and integrated logistics support.
        Conducts trade-off, feasibility and cost studies for new systems and proposed
        modifications. Generates and approves Statements of Work and specifications to
        imitate or implement modification programs. Obtains modification kits from contract
        source or initiates action to assemble kits from Air Force stock or by local
        manufacture. Develops and implements environmental policies and procedures
        which comply with Federal, DoD, USAF, and state statutes and regulations.
        2.9.3.5. C/KC-135 Production Support Branch (GKCN). Responsible to the C/KC-
        135 Sustainment Division Chief for Air Force C/KC-135 fleet Programmed Depot
        Maintenance (PDM) program operated by eight MAJCOMs, plans and executes all
        phases of PDM program including Unprogrammed Depot Level Maintenance
        (UDLM) or speed-lines. Develops annual PDM work specification, seeks approval
        from MAJCOMs, and leads C/KC-135 Aircraft Missile Requirements (AMR)
        discussions.    Ensures all new depot tasks are executable and supportable.
        Accomplishes risk mitigation actions such as validation and verification on new work
        tasks that require new tools, processes or material. Chairs PDM standardization
        working group to ensure standard work across all PDM repair sites. Develops
        induction requirements and coordinates aircraft schedules between depot maintenance
        and war fighter. Executes and manages PDM program within all elements of cost,
        schedule, and performance. Approves or disapproves ―Over and Above‖ work
        requirements. Formulates and compiles an annual $750M budget for PDM, UDLM,
        and Area Base Manufacture (ABM) projects. Leads C/KC-135 Operational Team
        Spirit (OTS) process which improves quality and aircraft availability. Provides
        logistics management oversight on major one time through the fleet tasks. Provides
        engineering support to organic and contract Program Depot Maintenance (PDM)
        repair sites, including analytical condition inspections, engineering technical
        assistance requests, liaison engineering support, and process improvements.
     2.9.4. B-52 Sustainment Division (GKD). Responsible to the GK Director for serving as
     the Air Force System Program Office and single manager for life-cycle management of
     B-52 weapon system to include Air Force office for acquisition, modification, logistics
     and engineering support for the USAF, AFRC and other Government agencies.
        2.9.4.1. B-52 Contracting Branch (GKDK). Provides contracting oversight and
        acquisition support for the Group’s acquisition, sustainment, and modernization
        requirements.
8                                                  TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


       2.9.4.2. B-52 Logistics Support Branch (GKDL). Responsible to the B-52 Division
       Chief for logistics management processes including Weapon System Supply Chain
       Management (WS SCM), Aircraft Availability Improvement Plan (AAIP), and fleet-
       wide performance metrics. Provides face to the customer for fleet management,
       Aircraft and Missile Requirements Document (AMRD) process, and negotiation,
       scheduling and execution of Programmed Depot Maintenance, as well as Contract
       Field Teams and Depot Field Teams. Provides accurate, updated technical orders to
       the war fighter and manages the Division’s Deficiency Reporting (DR) and
       Investigation Program and Configuration Control Board Secretariat. Ensures fleet
       completion of time compliance technical orders and provides oversight of fleet
       Readiness Spares Package (RSP) kits and the Spares Requirements Review Board
       (SRRB) process for the Division.
       2.9.4.3. B-52 Modification Branch (GKDM). Responsible to the B-52 Division
       Chief for providing management and execution of sustainment and upgrade programs
       for the B-52 weapon system. Provides cradle to grave management for B-52 and a
       single face to the user.
    2.9.5. Engineering/Technical Management Office (GKE). Responsible for providing
    expert systems engineering, technical direction and guidance for the GK Directorate.
    This office provides a strategic vision for the engineering mission and organization and
    implements standardized processes, policy and procedures across the Directorate on high
    level programs including, but not limited to OSS&E, Systems Engineering, and
    Airworthiness. Responsible for the functional management of engineering personnel
    across the Directorate to include workforce development, resource requirements, career
    development, mentoring, and awards.
    2.9.6. Financial Management Office (GKF). Responsible to GK Director and trusted
    advisor on all financial matters. Provides financial management decision support and
    advice to the Directorate. Responsible for overall financial management of funds to
    include justifying budgets, dispersing, analyzing and monitoring execution, and financial
    reporting. Provides functional management of financial personnel across the Directorate
    to include force development, resource requirements, career development, mentoring and
    awards. Focal point for financial policy and procedures for the Aerospace Sustainment
    Directorate.
    2.9.7. Propulsion Sustainment Division (GKG). Responsible to the GK Director for
    acting as the single manager for all propulsion sustainment issues for OC-ALC and the
    Air Force by providing world-wide support of assigned aircraft engines operated by the
    Air Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Federal agencies, and multiple foreign countries.
    Has Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness (OSS&E) responsibility and
    provides core life-cycle engine management, program management, financial, and
    contracting support for the F100, F101, F107, F112, F108, F110, F118, TF33, J69, J79,
    J85, T56, TF34, TF39, T400, and T700 engines. Management responsibilities include
    acquisition, logistics, and the technical and engineering services necessary to ensure the
    items of responsibility meet customer requirements.
       2.9.7.1. F100 and TF33 Branch (GKGA).            Responsible to the Propulsion
       Sustainment Division Chief for ensuring world-wide sustainment support of assigned
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                  9


       aircraft engines operated by the Air Force, Navy, Federal agencies, NATO, and
       multiple foreign countries.        Possesses Operational Safety, Suitability, and
       Effectiveness responsibility and provides core life-cycle management, program
       management, financial, and contract support for the F100 and TF33 engines,
       modules, and accessories. Management responsibilities include acquisition, logistics,
       repair, storage, distribution, disposal, and the technical and engineering services
       necessary to ensure their engines and components/items of responsibility meet
       customer requirements. Accomplishes management of maintenance repair scope and
       modification of assigned engines, modules, and accessories.
       2.9.7.2. F101/F108/F110/F118 Branch (GKGB). Responsible to the Propulsion
       Sustainment Division Chief for ensuring world-wide sustainment support of assigned
       aircraft engines operated by the Air Force, Navy, and multiple foreign countries.
       Possesses Operational Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness responsibility and
       provides core life-cycle management, program management, financial, and contract
       support for the F110, F101, F108, and F118 engines. Management responsibilities
       include acquisition, logistics, repair, storage, distribution, disposal, and the technical
       and engineering services necessary to ensure their engines and components/items of
       responsibility meet customer requirements.              Accomplishes management of
       maintenance repair scope and modification of assigned engines and components.
       2.9.7.3. Engine Health Management Branch (GKGC). Serves as the Air Force
       Program Management Office for Comprehensive Engineering Management System
       (DEMS), Joint Oil Analysis Program (JOAP), Air Force Oil Analysis Program
       (OAP), engine system actuarial analysis, and engine-related software/computer
       program support functions.
       2.9.7.4. TF39/T56/Specialty Engines Branch (GKGD).                Responsible to the
       Propulsion Sustainment Division Chief for ensuring world-wide sustainment support
       of assigned aircraft engines operated by the Air Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps,
       Coast Guard, federal agencies, and multiple foreign countries. Possesses Operational
       Safety, Suitability, and Effectiveness responsibility and provides core life-cycle
       management, program management, financial, and contract support for the TF39,
       T56, F107, F112, TF34, J85, J679, J79, T400, and T700 engines. Management
       responsibilities include acquisition, logistics, repair, storage, distribution, disposal,
       and the technical and engineering services necessary to ensure their engines and
       components/items of responsibility meet customer requirements. Accomplishes
       management of maintenance repair scope and modification of assigned engines and
       components.
       2.9.7.4.1. Propulsion International Engines Branch (GKGI). Responsible to the
       Propulsion Sustainment Division Chief for providing accurate and timely support for
       acquisition and sustainment of AF propulsion systems in accordance with the active
       Letters of Offer and Acceptance (contracts) between the US Government and Foreign
       Governments worldwide under the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) and European
       Participating Government programs. Includes engineering and technical support
       program and financial management of logistics commitments including Letters of
       Offer and Acceptance, acquisition support of new FMS programs, support of
       commodity and repair programs and other internal Logistics agreements.
10                                                  TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


        2.9.7.5. Propulsion Contracting Branch (GKGK). Acquire and sustain war fighting
        capabilities through innovative contracting solutions and acquisition support for
        professional and technical services contracts, as well as whole engine CLS-type
        support, for both the Propulsion sustainment Division and the office of the Director of
        Propulsion.
     2.9.8. E-3 Sustainment Division (GKJ). Responsible to the GK Director for serving as
     the E-3 System Sustainment Manager. Provides logistical and engineering support for
     USAF E-3 fleet sustainment. Manages reliability and maintainability upgrade programs.
     Provides Technical Coordination Program activities for North American Treaty
     Organization (NATO), Saudi Arabia, French and British E-3 fleets.
        2.9.8.1. E-3 International Branch (GKJI). Serves as Technical Coordination Group
        (TCG) which provides follow-on technical support to assist Foreign Military Sales
        (FMS) partners in maintaining and operating their E-3 AWACS fleets. Improves
        serviceability, maintainability and reliability of FMS fleets through the use of
        efficient program/logistics management, financial management and engineering
        support.
        2.9.8.2. E-3 Logistics Branch (GKJL). Responsible for providing E-3 Sustainment
        Supply Chain Logistics, Programmed Depot Maintenance Implementation, Financial
        Management, and Sustainment/Acquisition Modification execution for 33 E-3
        aircraft. Also responsible for AAIP goals and AFSO21 initiatives designed to
        improve aircraft availability to the war fighter.
     2.9.9. Contracting Office (GKK). Responsible to GK Director to provide contracting
     oversight and acquisition support for the Directorate’s acquisition, sustainment and
     modernization requirements. Responsible for the functional management of contracting
     personnel across the Directorate including force development, resource requirements,
     career development, mentoring, and awards. Focal point for contracting procedures for
     the Aerospace Sustainment Directorate.
     2.9.10. Weapon System Supply Chain Management (WSSCM) Office (GKL).
     Responsible to the GK Director for promoting, fostering and introducing design
     improvements into the Air Force supply chain aimed at improving weapon system
     availability through parts availability while mitigating costs. Conducts analysis and
     engages appropriate weapon system customers, stakeholders, and process owners to
     undertake the implementation of those opportunities and/or improvements for the greater
     good of the Aerospace Sustainment Directorate’s weapon systems.
     2.9.11. Management Operations Office (GKO). Responsible to GK Director to provide
     centralized management, analysis, planning, financial management, budgeting,
     manpower, personnel management, training oversight, facilities, system/operational
     safety, awards, security, war and emergency planning, inspection programs and disaster
     preparedness, and other administrative duties for GK Directorate. Manages acquisition
     and control of financial and manpower resources to ensure current and future workload
     balance throughout the GK Directorate. Provides strategic planning and current
     administration of all process improvement activities. Develops policy and procedures to
     effectively manage computer resources. Provides support for the administration,
     operation and maintenance of computer resources, file servers, departmental servers.
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                              11


     2.9.12. Propulsion Support & Staff Office (GKP). Responsible to the GK Director as the
     Single Air Force focal point for overarching policy, processes, guidance and coordination
     in the execution of engine life management planning of propulsion systems in the
     propulsion portfolio. Advises the GK Director on all propulsion-related policies,
     processes and procedures and represents the Air Force Propulsion community in its
     dealings with private industry. Manages the Air Force Component Improvement
     Program, is the Air Force voting member on the tri-service Joint Propulsion Coordinating
     Committee and is responsible for the development, acquisition and sustainment of the
     Propulsion Capability Enhancement Program. The GKP Office facilitates the AFMC
     master planning process as the focal point for the propulsion master plan which directs
     the evolution and transfer of technologies into Air Force propulsion systems. These
     responsibilities are achieved through coordination with Development System Manager
     (DSM) activities, at Aeronautical Systems Center, Wright Patterson AFB and the System
     Program Manager activities at OC-ALC. Acts as a career progression advocate and leads
     the development of education programs designed to educate the propulsion workforce on
     engine development, performance and sustainment.
     2.9.13. Combat Logistics Support (CLS) Sustainment Division (GKS). Responsible to
     the GK Director for serving as single manager and AFMC Center of Excellence for
     approximately 464 USAF commercial derivative aircraft. Provides sustainment and
     modernization and support across assigned weapons systems, multiple operating
     commands, and Federal agencies.         Establishes and maintains appropriate CLS
     relationships, preserves Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certification on
     commercially-derived aircraft designs and serves as engineering authority for assessing
     and certifying system OSS&E.
        2.9.13.1. CLS contracting Branch (GKSK). Provides contracting oversight and
        acquisition support for the Division’s acquisition, sustainment, and modernization
        requirements.
        2.9.13.2. Special Duty Branch (GKSS). Responsible to the CLS Sustainment
        Division Chief for providing for the total system performance of the commercial
        derivative aircraft providing primarily special duty and operational support. Directs
        all program management, acquisition, sustainment, engineering, modification,
        configuration control, and financial management for E-4B, C-9, C-12, C-21, C-26,
        and C-38 as well as Foreign Military Sales (FMS) aircraft in Iraq and Lebanon.
        These commercial derivative aircraft are maintained to FAA standards utilizing
        civilian maintenance practices, commercial parts and civilian maintenance centers.
        The Branch also performs Oklahoma City Air Logistics Center’s frequency
        management function for all weapon systems managed at the Center. Interfaces on a
        daily basis with Air Combat Command (ACC), Air Mobility Command (AMC), Air
        National Guard (ANG), Air Force Security Assistance Center (AFSAC), Air Staff,
        Joint Staff, Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA), Defense Intelligence
        Agency (DIA), Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA), Combatant
        Commanders, USSTRATCOM, National Airborne Operations Center (NAOC), and
        major contractors.
        2.9.13.3. Presidential & SAM Branch (GKSV). Responsible to the CLS Sustainment
        Division Chief for providing program management for the total system performance
12                                                       TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


            of commercial derivative aircraft comprising the Special Air Mission fleet. Directs
            aircraft program management, acquisition, sustainment, engineering, configuration
            control and financial management for VC-25 (Air Force One), C-32, C-40, C-20, C-
            37, Moroccan, Peace Falcon and Peace Lotus aircraft fleets. These commercial
            derivative aircraft are maintained to Federal Aviation Administration standards
            utilizing commercial parts and maintenance centers. Interfaces with White House
            staff, Joint Staff, Air Staff, Army, Navy, ANG, MAJCOMs, Egyptian Air Force, and
            major contractors on a daily basis.
            2.9.13.4. Tanker/Trainer Branch (GKSW). Responsible to the CLS Sustainment
            Division Chief for providing program management for the total system performance
            of the commercial derivative aircraft comprising aerial refueling and aero medical
            evacuation, training, and operation aircraft fleets.       Directs aircraft program
            management, acquisition, sustainment, engineering, configuration control and
            financial management activities for the KC-10, DC-10, E-9, T-1, T-6 (SSM), T-43,
            and the Air Force Academy fleets. These commercial derivative aircraft are
            maintained to FAA standards utilizing commercial parts and maintenance centers.
            Interfaces with Royal Netherlands Air Force, Navy, MAJCOMs, and major
            contractors on a daily basis. Manages aircraft modifications and depot programs.
        2.9.14. Contract Field Team (CFT) Office (GKX).            The CFT Program Office is
        responsible to the GK Director for supporting requirements generated by the Department
        of Defense (DoD) and other Federal agencies to provide a rapid deployment capability
        and flexibility to field necessary skilled technicians on site anywhere in the world to
        support the Government’s war readiness and posture planning needs. These contract
        field teams perform modification, maintenance, and repair of active systems in the DoD
        inventory, such as aircraft, vehicles, aerospace equipment, communications equipment
        (both electronics and meteorological), automatic data processing, and crypto logic
        equipment, missile systems, and support equipment.
     2.10. History Office (HO). Carries out the responsibilities of the AF and AFMC Historical
     Programs. Evaluates and interprets evidence to develop accurate, complete, descriptive, and
     analytical accounts of ALC operations. Collects, preserves and disseminates historical
     material for use in planning, operations, decision making, esprit de corps and community
     education. Serves as advisor for special heritage projects, memorials, exhibits and displays.
     Monitors local AF Art Program. Coordinates on all unit emblems, lineage, honors, and
     organizational flags.
     2.11. Judge Advocate (JA). Provides legal services and support to the OC-ALC, 72 ABW,
     and tenant units at Tinker AFB in accordance with relevant support agreements. Legal
     services and support includes the provision of acquisition law advice, representation of the
     Air Force’s interests for all aspects of the center’s annual expenditures, and representation of
     Tinker management in labor and employment law issues affecting the center. It also includes
     advice on all fiscal law matters, public-private partnerships, Freedom of Information Act
     requests and ethics issues arising under the Joint Ethics Regulation. Administer the Tinker
     OGE Form 450, Confidential Certificate of No New Interests (Executive Branch), program
     and advise individual employees on ethics rules applicable upon retirement or separation
     from the Air Force. Function as the installation’s representative before the Equal
     Employment Opportunity Commission, Merit Systems Protection Board, Federal Labor
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                 13


   Relations Authority and in arbitrations where the complainant is represented by counsel.
   Legal Counsel conduct negotiations with the Union when requested by management
   representatives and respond to Unfair Labor Practice allegations. Review all adverse actions
   taken by management against civilian employees. Manage and/or coordinate the military
   justice process for all Air Force personnel assigned to Tinker AFB to include courts-martial,
   non-judicial punishment actions and related personnel actions, in accordance with relevant
   support agreements and governing instructions. Oversee the administrative discharge process
   to timely separate airman who fail to meet standards or have disqualifying conditions, in
   accordance with DoD and Air Force instructions. Provide advice on all installation
   environmental concerns, to include frequent interaction with State and Federal regulators.
   Review all real estate transaction such as easements and leases, drafting appropriate
   agreements and coordinating approval at appropriate levels. Serve as counsel for medical
   legal concerns arising from the base clinic, review line of duty determinations and reports of
   survey, assess legality of proposed fundraisers and review all proposed local
   instructions/regulations for legal authority and propriety. Assist military members and DoD
   dependents with filing of claims information via the Claims Service Center. Initiate claims
   on behalf of the Air Force in accordance with governing instructions. Prosecute civilians
   committing criminal offenses on the installation in Federal Magistrate Court. Provide legal
   assistance for eligible active duty members, their dependents and retirees to include estate
   planning assistance and notary public service. Operate the installation Tax Center which
   provides free tax assistance and electronic filing service.
   2.12. Contracting Directorate (PK). Acquire and sustain war fighting capabilities through
   responsive and innovative contracting solutions with a well-trained and agile workforce,
   readily available tools and systems and flexible, compliant procedures and policies.
   2.13. Small Business Office (SB). Responsible to the OC-ALC director/commander for
   management of Small Business Programs, which include Small Business, Small
   Disadvantaged Business, Historically Underutilized Business Zone and Women-owned
   Business, manages the Source Development Program. Responsible for ensuring that a fair
   share of OC-ALC’s procurement dollars are spent with the aforementioned programs. The
   Small Business Office is the initial point of contact for businesses seeking contracting
   opportunities with OC-ALC.
   2.14. Plans and Programs Directorate (XP). Responsible to the Center Commander for
   management of plans, programs, research or contingency operations affecting the Center’s
   current and future missions. Functions as Center manager for strategic plans and policy to
   ensure optimal application of Center resources and to accomplish Center workload. To attain
   the optimum readiness posture. Oversees the creation of a future vision of a lean enterprise
   to improve reliability, cost, timeliness and quality in support of the warfighter.
3. 72ABW mission: Provides comprehensive installation services and support to the AF's
largest air logistics center, ACC's largest flying wing, the Navy's STRATCOMMWING ONE
and 45 other associate units within 6 MAJCOMs. Supports global contingencies with highly
trained, deployable personnel. With a $261M operating budget and $15.4B in resources,
maintains base infrastructure and support for 80,500 base employees, family members and
retirees.
14                                                       TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


     3.1. Command Chief Master Sergeant (CCC). Serves as a member of the commander's staff
     to advise and assist in matters concerning enlisted members of the command as well as on-
     base associate organizations.
     3.2. Director of Staff (DS). Provides executive-level advice and functional expertise to the
     Air Base Wing Commander to effectively address all matters concerning civilian
     organizational policy, fiscal and administrative management across all wing mission areas to
     improve effectiveness and resource efficiency of all ABW activities. As the technical expert,
     provides corporate-level continuity on operational policy matters to the 72d Air Base Wing
     Commander and Vice Commander. Directs the Wing’s Transformation, Public Affairs,
     Protocol and Plans and Programs Offices.
     3.3. Inspector General Office (IG). The Office of the Inspector General (OIG) establishes
     procedures for and manages the Inspector General Complaints Resolution Program for the
     OC-ALC in accordance with Air Force Policy Directive 90-3 and Air Force Instruction 90-
     301; serves as the focal point for Congressional inquiries on behalf of constituents, as well as
     Office of the SECDEF, SAF and DoD Inspector General (IG) investigations, visits and
     reports. The OIG also is the delegated authority for appointing and training investigative
     officers to conduct Inspector General investigations; inherent in that authority is the
     Installation IG authority to conduct and approve complaint analysis, complaint investigations
     and administrative inquiries, reports of investigations and higher headquarters notifications
     as appropriate in accordance with AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution.
     The OIG also advises and assists commanders and civilian leader equivalents at all levels
     with command-directed inquiries and investigations for subjects and subject matters under
     their respective jurisdiction. The OIG serves as the focal point for the Installation Fraud,
     Waste and Abuse Prevention and Detection Program and provides management oversight of
     Air Force and AFMC Special Interest Items.
     3.4. Plans and Programs Office (XP). Provides installation-wide program management for
     wartime, emergency, and contingency planning/response, arms control/treaties compliance,
     operations security, military deception, anti-terrorism/force protection, Tinker’s Charles B.
     Hall Air Park, base historical property, HHQ inspection team Red Carpet reception,
     installation Self Inspection Program (SI) and local and HHQ exercises and evaluations.
     Responsible for day-to-day management and operation of the Installation Control Center and
     Crisis Action Team and supports command and control operations during contingencies,
     emergencies and exercises.
     3.5. Civil Engineering Directorate (CE). Provides comprehensive civil engineering
     planning, services and support to the AF's largest air logistics center, Air Combat Command's
     (ACC) largest flying wing, the Navy's STRATCOMMWING ONE and 45 other associate
     units within six MAJCOMs. Maintains and repairs base facilities and infrastructure for
     80,500 base employees, family members and retirees.                  Ensures compliance with
     environmental requirements, conservation of natural/cultural resources, implementation of
     pollution prevention investments and completion of restoration actions. Provides the
     installation emergency management and fire protection services and manages military family
     and unaccompanied housing programs. Provides the Installation Commander with
     professional expertise, technical support and consultation on civil engineering matters.
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                15


  3.6. Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office (CVK). Responsible to the 72 ABW
  Vice Commander for management of the base’s prevention and education programs relating
  to sexual assault. Ensures that victims of sexual assault are aware of their reporting options
  and are provided with information on available military and community resources. Recruits
  and trains victim advocates and provides a 24 hour, 365 day a year response capability. Also
  provides the 72 ABW Vice Commander with a dedicated resource to assist in the ongoing
  efforts to instill respect and the Air Force core values throughout the Air Force.
  3.7. Chaplain Office (HC). Provides responsive spiritual care and creates opportunities for
  the free exercise of religion through a comprehensive program of worship, rites, moral and
  religious education, pastoral care, counseling, unit visitation, and humanitarian projects for
  the military personnel and their families assigned to Tinker Air Force Base. Advises
  commanders and supervisors on religious accommodation and ethical leadership.
  3.8. Information Protection Office (IP). Provides an enterprise-wide environment and
  methodology for the protection of information ensuring air, space and cyberspace superiority.
  3.9. Public Affairs Office (PA). Plans and executes strategic and tactical communication
  programs in support of the 72 ABW Commander, the OC-ALC staff, OC-ALC wings and
  Tinker Associate units. Functions include Plans, Environmental, Community Relations,
  Internal Information, Media Relations and additional duties as assigned. Provides trusted
  counsel to installation leadership, communicates ―commander’s intent‖ to the staff,
  empowers the staff to execute the communications mission and ensures timely response to
  stakeholders.
  3.10. Communications/Information Directorate (SC). Provides world-class full spectrum
  communications and information technology capabilities to Team Tinker in support of its
  global mission.      Develops policy and provides information technology planning,
  architectures, systems and integration support to the USAF’s largest Air Logistics Center to
  meet combatant commander war fighting requirements and foreign military sales needs. As
  Deputy Chief Information Officer (CIO), advises installation senior leadership and the
  AFMC CIO ensuring compliance with Congressional, DoD Air Force CIO, and HQ AFMC
  mandates.
     3.10.1. Operations Division (SCO). Provides a network control center capability,
     including a client service center, network management, server administration, and
     network information assurance services. Also, the flight enables knowledge operations
     through such services as records management, content and collaboration management,
     workflow, electronic communication management, and publishing. The flight further
     provides technical and systems support for wing communications and computer systems
     including ground radio, voice networks, airfield systems, and secure communications
     maintenance.
     3.10.2. Plans and Resources Division (SCX). Manages activities related to base-level
     Command, Control, Communications, and Computers (C4) systems planning: plans
     support, including mobility/deployment planning, strategic planning, and requirements
     analysis; implementation, including architectures, integration, direction, and standards;
     resources, including budgeting and billing; and human resources, including agreements
     and contract management. The flight also is responsible for base-level communication
16                                                       TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


        security programs (Communications Security, Emission Security, and Spectrum
        Information Assurance). Provides IT governance and CIO support.
        3.10.3. Special Missions Division (SCP). Provides support for Applications and
        Business processes as applicable, to include providing testing and training control and
        analysis capabilities, and applications software to support warfighter requirements and
        implementation of site-unique IT solutions.
     3.11. Safety Office (SE). Responsible for installation safety programs (Flight, Ground,
     Systems and Weapons). Provides management and staff supervision of safety functions
     covering planning, developing, organizing and implementing base safety programs. Provides
     technical advice and assistance concerning safety standards and criteria for prime weapon
     systems, engines and equipment commodities.
     3.12. 72d Operations Support Squadron (OSS). Provides world-class operations support to
     Team Tinker and all transient aircraft operations, including Air Traffic Control, Airfield
     Management, Aviation Resource Management, Weather Support, Air Traffic Control and
     Landing Systems (ATCALS) Maintenance and Quality Assurance and Evaluation of
     Transient Alert operations while training and deploying Warrior Airmen.
     3.13. 72d Comptroller Squadron (CPTS). The 72 CPTS commander is the Chief Financial
     Officer for the 72 ABW. The squadron provides financial services and advice to all Air
     Force personnel on the installation, to include military pay, civilian pay and travel pay.
     Provides accounting support for all Air Force units at Tinker, to include certification of funds
     availability and acts as the liaison with the Defense Finance and Accounting Service.
     Performs financial analysis and oversight of the Morale, Welfare and Recreation activities.
     Oversees budget preparation, execution and reporting for the 72 ABW. Equips, trains and
     deploys personnel in support of contingency operations world-wide.
     3.14. 72d Mission Support Group (MSG). Provides base services and support to the AF’s
     largest air logistics center, ACC’s largest flying wing, the Navy’s STRATCOMMWING
     ONE and 45 associate units within six MAJCOMs. Manages morale, welfare, recreation
     programs, security, supply, transportation, readiness, military/civilian personnel, contracting
     and communications for Tinker AFB.
        3.14.1. Logistics Readiness Squadron (LRS). 72d LRS is committed to being Team
        Tinker’s single retail supply, transportation and global mobility authority. By integrating
        contingency planning with materiel management processes, LRS directs vehicle
        maintenance/operations, cargo movement, passenger movement, personal property,
        supplies, equipment, deployment planning, fuels and support agreement management to
        ensure Agile Combat Support in Garrison and off the installation.
        3.14.2. Force Support Squadron (FSS). 72d FSS mission is to contribute to the readiness
        of AF, Navy, and Army personnel through fitness and subsistence programs; fostering
        unit and community cohesion; supporting AF, Navy, and Army family well-being; and
        offering efficient, customer-driven programs to improve quality of life for people
        assigned to Tinker. Provides oversight and transactional support for Civilian and Military
        Personnel, Education and Training, Manpower, Career Assistance Advisor and Airman
        and Family Readiness Center servicing the AF’s largest air logistics center, ACC’s
        largest flying unit and 45 different associate units. Operates the Airman Leadership
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                               17


     School and the First Term Airman Center. Enhances readiness capabilities and provides
     support services to facilitate the mission of the 72 ABW, OC-ALC and the associate units
     that operate at Tinker AFB.
     3.14.3. 72d Security Forces Squadron (SFS). Responsible for advising the OC-ALC
     Commander and 72 ABW Commander on security and law enforcement matters under
     the command jurisdiction; directing and controlling all squadron activities. Conducts
     evaluations and inspections of Security Forces and Law Enforcement functions,
     emergency operations, special duties and personnel. Formulates and enforces policies
     and procedures for securing the installation and protecting its resources. Equips, trains
     and executes peacetime and wartime missions through its expeditionary mobility forces.
     Maintains liaison with civil and military law enforcement and investigation agencies.
     Evaluates the functional performance of the Security Forces mission. Includes
     standardizing and evaluating the diverse functions of the security forces organization to
     ensure mission accomplishment.
  3.15. 72d Medical Group (72 MDG). Provides comprehensive medical support to the AF’s
  largest air logistics center, ACC’s largest flying wing, the Navy’s STRATCOMMWING
  ONE and 45 other associate units within 7 MAJCOMs. Provides healthcare for 54K
  beneficiaries with 434 personnel and 95 providers. Operates an $82M physical plant
  comprised of 6 geographically separated facilities with a $27M annual budget. Deploys
  equipment and personnel in support of global contingencies.
     3.15.1. 72d Medical Support Squadron (72 MDSS). Provides comprehensive medical
     support to the AF’s largest air logistics center, ACC’s largest flying wing, the Navy’s
     STRATCOMMWING ONE and 45 other associate units within 7 MAJCOMs. Provides
     administrative, logistical and ancillary support to a 434-person medical group, 22 patient
     care services and 95 providers in an $82M facility with a $27M annual budget. Deploys
     personnel and equipment in support of global contingencies.
     3.15.2. 72d Medical Operations Squadron (72 MDOS). Provides comprehensive
     medical support to the AF’s largest air logistics center, ACC’s largest flying wing, the
     Navy’s STRATCOMMWING ONE and 45 other associate units within 7 MAJCOMs.
     Provides medical and surgical care through 48 healthcare providers for 54K beneficiaries.
     Operates equipment and facilities valued at over $78M. Deploys personnel and
     equipment in support of global readiness and mobility contingencies.
     3.15.3. 72d Aerospace Medicine Squadron (72 AMDS). Provides comprehensive
     aeromedical, occupational medical, bioenvironmental, public health, optometric and
     medical readiness support to the AF’s largest air logistics center, ACC’s largest flying
     wing, a USN wing and 45 other associate units within 7 MAJCOMs. Provides healthcare
     for 1.7K rated personnel and occupational health support for 12.5K civilian employees.
     Deploys personnel and equipment in support of global contingencies.
     3.15.4. 72d Dental Squadron (72 DS). Provides comprehensive dental support to the
     AF’s largest air logistics center, ACC’s largest flying wing, Navy’s
     STRATCOMMWING ONE and 45 other associate units within 7 MAJCOMs. Provides
     preventive, diagnostic and restorative care for 8.7K AD to maintain dental readiness.
     Operates 27 treatment rooms and maintains equipment/facilities valued at $7M. Deploys
     personnel and equipment in support of global contingencies.
 18                                                       TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


4. 76th Maintenance Wing mission. Manages the organic depot-level maintenance production
facilities and laboratories in the restoration of Air Force equipment to a serviceable condition.
Implements policies designed to achieve the Command objective of providing a depot-level
industrial capability and capacity to support peacetime mission-essential maintenance
requirements, provide ready expansion to meet wartime emergency requirements, including
attached reserve units and provides a ready source of maintenance of critical items. Controls
manpower resources, both military and civilian, under common management systems to achieve
Command objectives. Fosters a team approach between the Maintenance and Product
Management functions with regard to product engineering requirements. Provides all aspects of
organic depot maintenance financial planning, budgeting, programming, rate/price setting and
execution.     Oversees all business process improvement initiatives and coordinates quality
assurance issues. Provides overall program direction for all current, future and anticipated
events that affect or require training resources. Performs analysis, maintains and integrates
maintenance workload requirements, manpower, skills and capacity. Provides centralized
contract support, repatriates workload and attracts partnerships. Provides mission support for
personnel, manpower and administrative matters. Note: 76 MXW staff offices are incorporated
into the wing statement.
      4.1. 76th Aircraft Maintenance Group (76 AMXG). Delivers war-winning capability to
      combatant commanders by providing aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul for USAF’s
      largest air logistics center. AF Materiel Command’s largest AMXG comprised of over
      2,800 civilian/military personnel who execute 2.5 million production hours annually to
      sustain a fleet of 800+ C/KC-135, B-1, B-52, E-3 and E-6 aircraft for USAF, Navy and
      Foreign Military Sales customers. Provides depot-level field maintenance support across the
      globe through an Expeditionary Depot Maintenance Flight (formerly CLSS).
      Operates/maintains 10 maintenance facilities, 4M square feet of useable ramp space and
      $76M in tools and equipment. Executes a $400+ million annual budget. (Residual from 654
      CLSS - Expeditionary depot maintenance forces provide unified Commanders in Chief and
      Air Force commanders with experienced, rapidly deployable and combat-ready military
      teams with specialized maintenance expertise. These capabilities are designed to directly
      support commanders as experienced augmentation for operational units or to add stand-alone
      capabilities.)
         4.1.1. Process Control and Improvement Division (QP).               Process Control and
         Improvement Division As technical leaders to consistently deliver quality, timely and
         cost effective aircraft maintenance while increasing productivity, capacity, safety, savings
         and flexibility of 76 AMXG by championing efforts to create seamless integration of
         innovative facilities, equipment, engineering services, non-destructive inspection, ground
         support equipment and parts warehousing.
         4.1.2. Quality Assurance Division (QI). The Quality Assurance Division is the AMXG’s
         point on quality and safety matters. The organization validates that trained personnel are
         using correct technical data with the right equipment on the right part in a safe manner.
         Performance is verified by doing personnel evaluations, quality verification inspections
         and routine inspections. The Quality Assurance Division also provides subject matter
         experts to participate in pre-production planning, transformation, and other process
         improvement teams.
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                               19


     4.1.3. Business Operations Division (OB). Ensures plans, programs, policies and
     procedures guidance is provided to group elements. Develops supplements to or
     recommends revision of and ensures compliance with applicable plans, programs,
     policies and procedures. Ensures compliance with all logistics systems to ensure
     uniformity and recommends actions to ensure financial and/or workload balance and
     needed management services in support of group activities. Directs and manages the
     Operations Branch overseeing the Maintenance Operation Center and the Operations
     Section, Financial Analysis and the Training Branch. Provides centralized management,
     analysis, budgeting, acquisition and control of financial and manpower resources
     ensuring group/squadron current and future workload balance. Provides overall security,
     war and emergency planning, aircraft analysis, awards and other administrative tasks for
     the AMXG. Provides oversight of the 76 AMXG training programs.
     4.1.4. 564th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (564 AMXS) (Tankers). Directs, manages
     and oversees operation of unit industrial shop and shop support functions for the OC-
     ALC C/KC-135 aircraft overhaul maintenance repair and modification program.
     Oversees pre-production, repair processes and overall management of the depot program
     from depot input through functional check flight (FCF) and delivery. Responsible for all
     aspects of C-135 aircraft depot work processes including production, planning,
     scheduling and the maintenance portion of materiel management. Responsible for
     quality, safety and schedule performance, financial operating results as well as other
     controllable aspects of the unit’s performance. Purses continuous process improvement
     through AFSO21, Lean Six Sigma, Theory of Constraints, and similar process
     improvement methodologies.
     4.1.5. 565th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (565 AMXS) (Bombers). Directs, manages
     and oversees operation of industrial shops and shop support functions for the OC-ALC B-
     1B and B-52 aircraft modification and repair program. Oversees pre-production, repair
     processes and overall management of the depot maintenance program from aircraft input
     through FCF and delivery. Responsible for all aspects of B-1 and B-52 aircraft depot
     maintenance processes including production, planning, scheduling and the maintenance
     portion of materiel management. Responsible for quality, safety and schedule
     performance, financial operating results as well as all other controllable aspects of the
     squadron’s performance. Evaluates suggestions, conducts Operational Risk Management
     activities and seeks continuous process improvements through lean and transformation
     activities such as rapid improvement events.
     4.1.6. 566th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (566 AMXS) (E-3/Services). Directs,
     manages and oversees operation of squadron industrial shop and shop support functions
     for the Air Force E-3 and Navy E-6 aircraft modification and repair program. Oversees
     pre-production, repair processes and overall management of the depot program from
     depot input through FCF and delivery. Responsible for all aspects of E-3 and E-6 aircraft
     depot work processes, including production, planning, scheduling and the maintenance
     portion of materiel management. Directs, manages and oversees all aircraft paint/depaint
     operations, aircraft moving operations, reclamation of Air Force equipment and the
     provision of standby crash crews and equipment for aircraft recovery. Also, provide all
     aircraft with crane support for removal and installation of aircraft components.
     Responsible for quality, safety, schedule performance, financial operating results as well
20                                                      TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


        as all other controllable aspects of the squadron’s performance. Evaluates suggestions
        conducts Operational Risk Management activities and seeks continuous process
        improvements through lean and transformation activities such as rapid improvement
        events.
     4.2. 76th Propulsion Maintenance Group (76 PMXG). Directs, manages and operates the
     organic depot level maintenance, repair and test facilities to restore Air Force and Navy
     aircraft engines and engine components to serviceable condition. Implements policies
     designed to provide a depot level industrial capability to support peacetime mission essential
     requirements and a surge capability to meet wartime emergency aircraft engine/engine
     component requirements.
        4.2.1. Process Control and Improvement Division (QP).             Provides process and
        production engineering support to five separate Propulsion Maintenance Squadrons,
        planning, resource standards and technical organizations within 76 PMXG along with
        providing technical support to the Aircraft Sustainment Wing (ASW). Determines and
        implements equipment and facility requirements in order to provide increased flexibility
        and capability. Determines facility requirements for 76 PMXG, develops/designs
        industrial shop/office layouts and initiates work requests for facility/equipment repairs.
        Oversee the purchase and/or replacement of all production equipment. Reviews
        proposals for new equipment purchases to determine application acceptability. Identifies,
        develops and introduces new technologies and repairs into the depot overhaul and repair
        processes to improve productivity and quality and facilitate continuous process
        improvement. Provides technical support to production operations to resolve process
        related problems. Conducts engineering studies to improve quality and reduce
        overhaul/repair costs. Ensures the technical integrity and capability of depot overhaul
        repair and performance measuring equipment. Designs and develops new or unique
        repair tools and fixtures and redesigns existing equipment in support of production
        operations. Maintains the principal of Operational Safety, Suitability and Effectiveness
        (OSS&E) during interactions with all agencies in support of the 76 PMXG mission.
        Apply process improvement methodologies, principles and tools to the various services
        and processes provided by the 76 PMXG.
        4.2.2. Quality Assurance Division (QI).         Mission is to support the Propulsion
        Maintenance Group (76 PMXG) by ensuring compliance with Air Force and Industry
        Standards with the key purpose of providing quality products to the war fighter.
        Investigates and resolves customer reported 76 PMXG product deficiencies while
        continually striving to provide objective insight to the quality and effectiveness of
        products and processes with the Propulsion Maintenance Group. 76 PMXG/QI serves as
        the Group focal point for all compliance inspections, both local and higher command.
        4.2.3. Business Operations Division (OB). Provides logistical support to the group
        organizations from initial workload negotiations until the engine is returned to the
        warfighter. Serve as the focal point for all organic production Depot Maintenance
        Activity Group (DMAG) financial matters; including profit & loss and budgeting
        processes. Provide near-term and long-range workload plans, programs and policies;
        including Planned Labor Application (PLA) for five-year workload projections. The
        group focal point for various administrative functions including temporary duty (TDY),
        security, full spectrum threat response and awards. Provide policy and procedure
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                               21


     guidance to group organizations responsible for all phases of workloading. Examine the
     following factors to facilitate engine repair: manpower, skills, capacity, assets, and
     material to prepare for and schedule workload into the engine repair facilities. Manage
     and maintain automated engine production records. Conduct and present special studies
     and workload analysis regarding group operations.
     4.2.4. 544th Propulsion Maintenance Squadron (544 PMXS) (F100 Production).
     Responsible for managing all aspects of F100 aircraft engine/engine component repair,
     including production, planning and scheduling, material, analysis, engineering and
     quality. Directs, manages and oversees operation of all F100/F119 engine and
     component repair and test operations required to provide serviceable engines and
     components to the war fighters. Accomplishes maintenance, repair, modification,
     reclamation and testing of F100/F119 engines and engine components for the Air Force
     per the applicable technical data and other directives. Provides production planning and
     resource standards required to support engine and component repair operations.
     Regulates workflow into the engine repair shops in accordance with capability, capacity
     and parts supportability. Provides skilled production personnel for depot field teams to
     provide worldwide support. Maintains and operates storage facilities and material
     tracking systems required to support the F100/119 engine/component repair operations.
     4.2.5. 545th Propulsion Maintenance Squadron (545 PMXS) (TF33 and F101 RE21
     Production). Responsible for managing all aspects of Field and Depot level TF33 and
     F101 aircraft engine/engine component repair, including production, planning and
     scheduling, material, analysis, engineering and quality assurance. Directs, manages and
     oversees operation of all TF33 and F101 engine and component repair and test operations
     required to provide serviceable engines and engine components for the E-3B Sentry, E-8
     Joint Stars, B-52H Stratofortress and B-1B Lancer aircraft. Accomplishes maintenance,
     repair, modification, reclamation and testing of TF33 and F101 engines and engine
     components for the Air Force per the applicable technical data and other directives.
     Provides production planning and resource standards required to support engine and
     component repair operations. Regulates workflow into the engine repair shops in
     accordance with capability, capacity and parts supportability. Provides skilled production
     personnel for depot field teams to provide worldwide support. The 545th Propulsion
     Maintenance Squadron provides worldwide and world class TF33 and F101 engines in
     support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and the Global War on Terrorism.
     4.2.6. 546th Propulsion Maintenance Squadron (546 PMXS) (GE Production). Safely
     produce quality engines and engine components for the war fighter, on schedule, on cost.
     4.2.7. 547th Propulsion Maintenance Squadron (547 PMXS) (Engine Repair/
     Development). This organization serves as the PMXG focal point for design and
     development of jet engine repairs in order to repatriate workload that has been contracted
     out and to bring new workloads to the depot. The organization is responsible for
     complete development of a repair and insertion into a production environment. This
     includes development of processes, procedures, tool design and tool manufacture for
     inspection and repair of jet engine components. The organization is responsible for
     prototype management and documentation of the final repair procedures and processes.
     The organization is responsible for depot implementation of Component Improvement
     Program repairs or modifications as developed by the Original Engine Manufacturers
22                                                     TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


        (OEMs) for the Air Force. The organization consults and coordinates with the Cognizant
        Engineering Authorities in engine management organizations to ensure procedures and
        documentation are adequate and appropriate for production usage. This organization
        proposes and executes change order requests as needed to correct inadequacies in repair
        requirements/ procedures.        This organization develops prototype Work Control
        Documents to manage and conduct the initial repair. This organization works with
        Headquarters AF and OEM’s cognizant engineering authorities under partnership
        agreements to develop and implement new repairs for potential new depot workloads.
        The organization develops technical statements of work for outsourcing workload where
        capacity or capability constraints exist.          The squadron designs, develops and
        manufactures new or unique repair tools and fixtures and redesigns existing
        tooling/fixtures in support of all engine production operations at Tinker AFB. Develops
        and manages Maintenance-to-Maintenance contracts for individual repairs on engine
        components, allowing components that were originally contracted out for the entire repair
        procedure to be worked organically by contracting out only those repairs the depot cannot
        accomplish. The organization serves as the group focal point for all new business
        development. The 547th is responsible for program management responsibilities for
        activation of partnering initiatives with private industry.
        4.2.8. 548th Propulsion Maintenance Squadron (548 PMXS) (Production Services).
        Responsible for managing all aspects of engine/engine component repair, including
        production, planning and scheduling, material, analysis, engineering and quality. Directs,
        manages and oversees operation of all repair and test operations required to provide
        serviceable engines and components to the war fighters. Accomplishes maintenance,
        repair, modification, reclamation and testing of engine components for the Air Force per
        the applicable technical data and other directives. Provides production planning and
        resource standards required to support engine and component repair operations.
        Regulates workflow through the engine repair shops in accordance with capability,
        capacity and parts supportability. Provides skilled production personnel for depot field
        teams to provide worldwide support. Maintains and operates storage facilities and
        material tracking systems required to support the engine/component repair operations.
     4.3. 76th Commodities Maintenance Group (76 CMXG). Directs, manages and operates the
     organic depot level maintenance production facilities in the restoration of Air Force and
     Navy equipment to serviceable condition. Implements policies designed to achieve the
     Command objective of providing a depot level industrial capability and capacity to support
     peacetime mission essential maintenance requirements and ready expansion to meet wartime
     emergency requirements.
        4.3.1. Process Control and Improvement Division (QP). Participates in and coordinates
        on workload negotiations. Performs preproduction engineering and planning. Provides
        cost estimates and source selection support. Performs methods/process engineering.
        Provides management consulting services. Designs tools, jigs, fixtures, equipment and
        production aids for industrial processes and determines certification/recertification
        requirements as necessary. Initiates and reviews proposals for equipment, products and
        industrial processes to determine application and acceptability. Develops and maintains
        plant layouts. Develops, monitors and prioritizes service orders, work orders and
        contract services.
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                 23


     4.3.2. Quality Assurance Division (QI). The Commodities Quality Assurance Division
     is the depot and MXW’s focal point on all commodity process and product quality
     matters. Provides quality management and training for the CMXG. Performs
     assessments, audits, inspections, investigations and task evaluations throughout the
     group. Manages and administers the AFMC Command Maintenance Standardization
     Effectiveness Program, Quality Deficiency Report Program, Unit Compliance Program ;
     and functions as the Group Quality Program Management Office for internal and external
     ISO 9000 & AS9100 compliance and certification. Group Pre-Production Team member
     and participates in and coordinates on workload negotiations. Manages the command’s
     tool control, Foreign Object Damage and Self-Inspection programs for the group.
     Performs surveillance and analysis of maintenance quality data for internal and external
     customers. Develops policies and procedures to improve programs, processes and
     products and maintains documentation required to support quality programs. Provides
     feedback to management on process and product quality. Collects, analyzes, trends and
     prepares data for presentation to customers, squadrons, divisions, group, wing and the
     ALC Director/Commander. Supports internal and external audits. Reviews and
     coordinates on all CMXG Statements of Work for quality compliance and provides
     management oversight of the group’s safety program.
     4.3.3. Business Operations Division (OB). Serves as primary office of responsibility for
     administrative and management functions within the 76 CMXG. Ensures accuracy and
     completeness of assignments levied on the group. Provides centralized management,
     analysis and control of the group’s programs and centralized management of Depot
     Maintenance Mission Area funds for the 76 CMXG. Centralized management includes
     development of all budgets, analysis of budget execution, development of workload
     review targets and analysis of all production related metrics. Serves as focal point for the
     76 CMXG training, security and stamp program. Provides Comprehensive Engine
     Management System repair reporting to the D042 system. Administers the Government
     Travel Card Program providing funds for administrative and production related TDY.
     Administers the Government Purchase Card program providing funds for administrative
     and production related consumable items.
     4.3.4. 550th Commodities Maintenance Squadron (550 CMMXS) (Air Accessories,
     Avionics). Directs and manages the repair, over haul and modification of components for
     airborne accessories and avionic/electronic systems in worldwide support of major
     weapon systems. Manages the production of these components in accordance with cost,
     schedule, quality and technical requirements that are extremely critical to the successful
     accomplishment of the DoD. Responsible for workloading, planning, financial
     management, scheduling, quality and material support functions in support of repair
     production.
     4.3.5. 551st Commodities Maintenance Squadron (551 CMMXS) (Sheetmetal and
     Composite). Direct and manages the repair, overhaul and modification of aircraft flight
     controls, advanced composite, fiberglass, foam and fibrous aircraft parts in worldwide
     support of major weapon systems. Manages the production of these components in
     accordance with cost, schedule, quality and technical requirements that are extremely
     critical to the successful accomplishment of the DoD. Responsible for workloading,
24                                                       TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


        planning, financial management, scheduling, quality and material support functions in
        support of repair production.
        4.3.6. 552d Commodities Maintenance Squadron (552 CMMXS) (Fuel Accessories and
        Manufacture). Direct and manages the repair, overhaul and modification of accessories
        for aircraft, engine, engine fuel controls, engine hydraulic, electrical, fuel, pneumatics,
        electrical/mechanical components and miscellaneous engine oil and valve accessories and
        all aircraft fuel flow transmitters, constant speed drives and engine bearings.
        Manufactures a variety of fixtures, tooling, electrical cables, springs, fabric, sheetmetal
        components, tubing and an assortment of machined components. Repairs a variety of
        fuel cells, cables, wing seals, tubes, heat exchangers, oil coolers, fuel doors and housings
        in worldwide support of major weapon systems. Manages the production of these
        components in accordance with cost, schedule, quality and technical requirements that
        are extremely critical to the successful accomplishment of the DoD. Responsible for
        work loading, planning, financial management, scheduling, quality and material support
        functions in support of repair production.
     4.4. 76th Maintenance Support Group (76 MXSG). Provides plant facilities, equipment
     engineering, calibration, laboratory services and installation support to the Maintenance
     Wing’s infrastructure.      Manages capital investment-related programs affecting the
     maintenance functions in the OC-ALC and MXW production and support organizations.
     Maintains and operates laboratories and provides technical support for various industrial
     processes.
        4.4.1. 76th Maintenance Support Squadron (76 MXSS) (Industrial Services). Oversees
        Maintenance Wing facilities and industrial production equipment. Responsible for the
        integration and synchronization of military construction and maintenance and repair
        activities in support of the 76 MXW’s infrastructure. Determines infrastructure priorities
        for the Wing and provides guidance to professional engineers in support of Wing
        infrastructure processes. Manages and facilitates Wing facility space and communication
        network requirements. Manages Maintenance Wing’s facility management office for
        overarching requirements associated with door lock keys/cores, fire/safety, facility
        reports and general facility maintenance. Provides engineering design required for
        installation, removal and relocation of industrial production equipment for industrially
        funded organizations. Serves as the ALC single source of engineering expertise covering
        hardware aspects of all types of automated/non-automated systems and equipment
        supporting production workloads. Provides installation and relocation of equipment,
        plant modification and relocation of overhead functions. Accomplishes trade functions,
        preventive and predictive maintenance and unscheduled repair on all DMAG Industrial
        Plant Equipment (IPE). Adjusts, tests, modifies and repairs production equipment
        providing 7-day, 24-hour support to production workloads. Administers Air Force
        Metrology and Calibration Program for OC-ALC. Ensures repair, calibration and
        certification service for all identified test, measurement and diagnostic equipment
        (TMDE) throughout OC-ALC and assigned geographical areas. Ensures electronic
        maintenance support for all computerized plant equipment. Provides broad spectrum
        chemical and materials analyses, evaluations, characterizations, materials testing and
        consultations, as well as precision measurement (metrology) and Special Skills
        Qualification (SSQ) certification for joining and nondestructive testing. Provides a wide
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                25


     range of engineering and technical support services to weapon system, engine a nd
     commodity/item Depot Maintenance, Product Supply Chain Management (PSCM) and
     Single Manager organizations within OC-ALC, other AFMC installations and other DoD
     and federal agencies. Conducts special skills qualification tests for non-destructive
     inspection, welding, brazing, soldering, cutting and joining fiberglass, etching and
     honeycomb repair. Provides systems/subsystems analysis through product qualification,
     failure identification, replication and analysis and field/depot inspection technique
     development. Performs reverse engineering and organic design in support of OC-ALC
     managed weapon systems, engines and commodities. Manages the OC-ALC tool
     program to include acquisition, issue, disposal, policy and procedures. Provides
     planning, scheduling and material control of 66 forward tool units throughout the Wing to
     include managing, tracking, purchasing tools and material in support of the Production
     groups. Serves as the Quality Management Office for the Maintenance Support Group.
     Serves as the Facility Equipment Management Software application manager for the
     Wing. Provides group support for resources, manpower, human relations, repair and
     installation material and funding. Accomplishes the Wing vehicle control program and
     visual information function. Manages, analyzes, develops specifications, reviews,
     validates, consolidates, purchases and installs all Point of Use applications for the Wing.
     Serves as the subject matter expert on point of use technology and material management
     for the Wing.
  4.5. 76th Software Maintenance Group (76 SMXG). Serves as ALC single organic source of
  Mission Critical Computer Resources and Automatic Test Equipment (ATE) software for all
  assigned prime systems and equipment and for all echelons of maintenance. Designs,
  develops and provides new, altered, updated or modified software and updates/corrects
  existing avionics items/system software. Provides on-site engineering assistance as required
  to identify and correct software deficiencies. Supports, monitors and coordinates on ALC
  acquisition programs for automated or programmable systems/equipment and coordinates
  with other agencies as appropriate. Provides specifications/performance criteria and
  documentation for automated equipment. Conducts feasibility studies for the application of
  automation to the depot maintenance process. Serves as the ALC single organic source of
  industrial automation software requiring computer programming skills in higher order and
  assembly level computer programming languages. Serves as Automatic Test Systems focal
  point with the wing. Participates in customer workload negotiation by preparing proposals
  and Memorandums of Agreement. Provides support to configuration management of
  automated systems. Provides acquisition support to AFMC and other agencies.
     4.5.1. Business Operations Division (OB). Provides planning, financial management,
     budgeting, manpower, training, facilities, system/operational safety, security, war and
     emergency planning, inspection programs and disaster preparedness and other
     administrative duties for the SMXG.        Provides the strategic planning and current
     administration of all process improvement activities for the SMXG. This includes efforts
     to achieve/maintain System Engineering Institute Capability Maturity Model/Capability
     Maturity Model Integration certification and International Standards Organization (ISO)
     registration. Provides the processes and resources necessary to accomplish customer
     funded Software Control Center functions necessary for configuration management and
     software distribution for the Air Force. Provides design, evaluation, implementation and
26                                                  TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


     support of computer networks/technology, office automation and application
     programming. Develops policy and procedures to effectively manage and utilize digital
     networks and computer resources. Provides support for the administration, operation and
     maintenance of computer resources, file servers, departmental servers.
     4.5.2. 555th Software Maintenance Squadron (555 SMXS) (Avionics Test and
     Industrial). Serves as OC-ALC single organic source of avionics, instruments, industrial
     automation, engine test, engine diagnostics and test system development test software for
     all echelons of maintenance. Designs, develops and provides new, altered, updated, or
     modified test software and updates/corrects existing avionics, instrument, industrial
     automation, engine test, engine diagnostics and test items/system software. Provides on-
     site engineering assistance as required by the production activity to identify and correct
     software deficiencies. Develops data for operator/user manuals. Supports, monitors and
     coordinates on OC-ALC acquisition programs for automated or programmable
     systems/equipment and coordinates with other agencies as appropriate. Provides
     specification/performance criteria and documentation for automated equipment.
     Conducts feasibility studies for application of automation to the depot maintenance
     process. Prepares workload budget inputs for customer budgeting and requirements.
     Participates in customer workload negotiation by preparing proposals and Memorandums
     of Agreement. Provides support to configuration management of automated systems.
     Provides acquisition support to AFMC product divisions and other agencies. Assigned
     responsibility is software support and development of automated testing for aircraft
     avionics and instruments items, automated industrial plant equipment, automated testing
     for engines and engine accessories, engine diagnostics and test systems development.
     4.5.3. 556th Software Maintenance Squadron (556 SMXS) (B-1B). Serves as OC-ALC
     single organic source of B-1 ATE software for all echelons of maintenance. Designs,
     develops and provides new, altered, updated, or modified tests software and
     updates/corrects existing avionics items/system software. Provides on-site engineering
     assistance as required by the production activity to identify and correct software
     deficiencies. Develops data for operator/user manuals. Supports, monitors and
     coordinates on OC-ALC acquisition programs for automated or programmable
     systems/equipment and coordinates with other agencies as appropriate. Provides
     specification/performance criteria and documentation for automated equipment.
     Conducts feasibility studies for application of automation to the depot maintenance
     process. Prepares workload budget inputs for customer budgeting and requirements
     identification. Participates in customer workload negotiation by preparing proposals and
     Memorandums of Agreement/Memorandums of Understanding/Statements of
     Objectives/Statements of Need. Provides support to configuration management of
     automated systems. Provides acquisition support to AFMC product groups and other
     agencies. Assigned responsibility is software support to automated testing for B-1
     avionics and support to Central Integrated Test System (CITS) Operational Flight
     Program (OFP) flight software. Assists in early inputs to the Statement of Need (SON) to
     ensure commonality, standardization and maximum utilization of existing computer
     resources. Participates in development of Computer Resources Lifecyle Computer
     Management Plan, Computer Resources Integrated Support Plan, Operational and
     Support Computer Management Plan and similar documents. Provides minimum
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                               27


     essential weapon system computer resources documentation requirements for operational
     support of aircraft and mission planning computer programs. Participates in and
     performs verification and validation of revised or newly developed compu ter programs.
     Assists in evaluation and defines the cause of software deficiencies related to weapon
     system support. Determines and recommends changes required to correct these
     deficiencies. Assists in integration of computer programs and system, subsystems and
     equipment to ensure design performance and compatibility in coordination with the
     system engineering functions.         Provides representation to the AFMC/OC-ALC,
     Configuration Control Board, Computer Resources Working Group, Computer Program
     Sub Control Board and Screening Panel as required. Ensures technical integrity and
     compatibility of B-1 CITS OFP computer programs. Determines technical feasibility of
     new applications of computer programs and methods. Evaluates contractor prepared
     ECPs for OFP computer programs and documentation and applies cost effectiveness
     criteria. Participates in or conducts Preliminary Design Reviews, System Design
     Reviews, System Requirements Reviews, Critical Design Reviews, Physical
     Configuration Reviews, Pre-Award Surveys, Functional Configuration Audits and other
     technical interchange meetings. Participates with AFMC during the acquisition phase of
     new weapon systems and equipment to provide advisory services on computer resources,
     including computers, ATE (Automatic Test Equipment) and related software programs.
     Participates in AFPD 99-1 (T&E), T&E Process and AFI 99-301 (DT&E) test and
     evaluation. Conducts or participates in verification and validation of assigned computer
     programs. Develops computer program documentation, test data requirements and test
     plans. Provides advisory/consultation services to other activities. Participates in
     development of computer resources for new systems equipment. Assists in maintaining
     liaison with using activities to identify existing and incipient support problems. Assists
     in identification of requirements, develops, manages, maintains and up-grades a computer
     resources facility (including an Avionics Integration Support Facility to support assigned
     embedded computer systems). Assists in performing system problem analysis, system
     performance evaluation, system integration test and evaluation of new, modified, or
     enhanced software and hardware, which affect assigned ECS. Assists in performing
     failure analysis, test void/material deficiency analysis, modifications, enhancements and
     prototypes of assigned Embedded Computer System hardware in support of the System
     Support Manager, System Program Manager, System Program Director and/or Item
     Manager. Assists in maintaining and updating the computer resources facility tools such
     as, hot mock-ups, dynamic simulators and host computer systems. Develops and tests
     new and maintains existing Air Force Mission Support System (AFMSS)
     Aircraft/Weapon/Electronics (A/W/E) hardware design and software as required by the
     customer. Manages Building 3220 facilities. Provides software engineering support for
     the B-1B Avionics/Air Vehicle Software and Simulation Computer Software
     Configuration Items.
     4.5.4. 557th Software Maintenance Squadron (557 SMXS) (B-52 and Missiles). Assists
     in early inputs to the SON to ensure commonality, standardization and maximum
     utilization of existing computer resources. Participates in development of the CRLCMP
     (Computer Resource Life Cycle Management Plan), CRISP (Computer Resource
     Information Security Program) and O/SCMP (Operational Software Configuration
     Management Plan). Provides minimum essential weapon system computer resources
28                                                   TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


     documentation requirements for operational support of OFP (Operational Flight Program)
     computer programs. Participates in and performs verification and validation of revised or
     newly developed OFP computer programs. Assists in evaluation and defines the cause of
     software deficiencies related to weapon system support. Determines and recommends
     changes required to correct these deficiencies. Assists in integration of computer
     programs and systems, subsystems, equipment to ensure design performance and
     compatibility in coordination with the system engineering functions.              Provides
     representation to the AFMC/ALC, CCB (Configuration Control Board), CRWG
     (Computer Resource Working Group), CPCSB (Computer Program Configuration Sub
     Board) and Screening Panel as required. Ensures technical integrity and compatibility of
     OFP computer programs. Determines technical feasibility of new applications of OFP
     computer programs and methods.            Evaluates contractor prepared Environmental
     Compliance Programs for OFP computer programs and documentation and applies cost
     effectiveness criteria. Assists in early inputs to the SON to ensure commonality,
     standardization and maximum utilization of existing computer resources. Participates in
     development of the CRLCMP, CRISP and O/SCMP. Assists in performing system
     problem analysis, system performance evaluation, system integration test and evaluation
     of new, modified, or enhanced software and hardware, which affect assigned ECS.
     Assists in performing failure analysis, test void/material deficiency analysis,
     modifications, enhancements and prototypes of assigned ECS hardware in support of the
     SPM/SPD/IM. Develops and tests changes to OFPs to correct deficiencies and add
     enhancements. Develops changes to simulation programs to reflect changes in the
     weapon system and as required to improve test capabilities. Develops changes to test
     programs used to test missile, empty and loaded pylons/launchers at the field level and
     maintains related resident test software and simulation programs. Maintains integrated
     test laboratory facilities/equipment and software. Performs integrated testing of aircraft,
     launcher/pylon and missiles to isolate reported deficiencies and to test changes to aircraft
     and missile software. Maintains and updates the computer resources facility tools such
     as: hot mock-ups; dynamic simulators; and host computer systems.                  Assigned
     responsibility is software support to the Operation Flight Programs for B-52, KC-135,
     Conventional Air Launched Cruise Missile, Air Launched Cruise Missile and the
     Advanced Cruise Missile.
     4.5.5. 558th Software Maintenance Squadron (558 SMXS) (E-3). Assists in early inputs
     to the SON to ensure commonality, standardization and maximum utilization of existing
     computer resources. Participates in development of CRLCMP, CRISP and O/SCMP.
     Provides minimum essential weapon system computer resources documentation
     requirements for operational support of OFP computer programs. Participates in and
     performs verification and validation of revised or newly developed OFP computer
     programs. Assists in the evaluation and defines the cause of software deficiencies related
     to weapon system support. Determines and recommends changes required to correct
     these deficiencies. Assists in integration of computer program and systems, subsystems
     and equipment to ensure design performance and compatibility in coordination with the
     system engineering functions. Provides representation to the AFMC/ALC, CCB, CRWG,
     CPCSB and Screening Panel as required. Ensures technical integrity and compatibility of
     OFP computer programs. Determines technical feasibility of new applications of OFP
     computer programs and methods. Evaluates contractor prepared ECPs for OFP computer
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                            29


     programs and documentation and applies cost effectiveness criteria. Participates in or
     conducts Preliminary Design Reviews, System Design Reviews, System Requirements
     Reviews, Critical Design Reviews, Physical Configuration Audits, Pre-Award Surveys,
     Functional Configuration Audits and other technical interchange meetings. Participates
     in the acquisition phases of new weapon system and equipment to provide advisory
     services on computer resources, including computers, ATE and related software
     programs. Participates in AFI 99-109 (Major Range and Test Facility Base (MRTFB)
     Test and Evaluation) test and evaluation. Conducts or participates in verification and
     validation of assigned computer programs. Assists in development of inputs in
     preparation for transition from acquisition to operations and maintenance. Develops
     computer program documentation, test data requirements and test plan. Provides
     advisory consultation services to other activities. Participates in the development of
     computer resources for new systems equipment. Assists in maintaining liaison with
     using activities to identify existing and incipient support problems. Assists in
     identification of requirements, develops, manages, maintains and up-grades a computer
     resources facility (including an AISF to support assigned embedded computer systems).
     Assists in performing system problem analysis, system performance evaluation, system
     integration test and evaluation of new, modified, or enhanced software and hardware,
     which affect assigned ECS. Assists in performing failure analysis test void/material
     deficiency analysis, modifications, enhancements and prototypes of assigned ECS
     hardware in support of the SPM/SPD/IM. Assists in maintaining and updating the
     computer resources facility tools such as, hot mock-ups, dynamic simulators and host
     computer systems. Assigned responsibility is software support for the E-3 surveillance
     radar computer program, surveillance radar maintenance computer program, surveillance
     radar ground support computer program, navigation computer program, maintenance
     computer program, electronic support system operational computer program and
     electronic support measures operational computer program for the U.S. and customers.
     4.5.6. 559th Software Maintenance Squadron (559 SMXS) (B-2). Serves as ALC single
     organic source of ATE software for depot maintenance for the B-2 Weapon system
     avionics. Designs, develops and provides new, altered, updated, or modified test
     software and updates/corrects existing avionics items/system software. Provides on-site
     engineering assistance as required by the production activity to identify and correct
     software deficiencies. Develops data for operator/user manuals. Supports, monitors and
     coordinates on ALC acquisition programs for automated or programmable
     systems/equipment and coordinates with other agencies as appropriate. Provides
     specification/performance criteria and documentation for automated equipment.
     Conducts feasibility studies for application of automation to the depot maintenance
     process. Prepares workload budget inputs for customer budgeting and requirements
     identification to G072E data system. Participates in customer workload negotiation by
     preparing proposals and Memorandums of Agreement. Provides support to configuration
     management of automated systems. Provides acquisition support to AFMC Product
     Divisions and other agencies. Assigned responsibility is software support to automated
     testing for avionics. Serves as ALC single organic source of ATE software for
     Intermediate Level maintenance for the B-2 Weapon system avionics and Rotary Launch
     Assembly. Designs, develops and provides new, altered, updated, or modified test
     software and updates/corrects existing items/system software. Coordinates with using
 30                                                      TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


         activities to identify, prioritize and correct software deficiencies. Develops data for
         operator/user manuals. Supports, monitors and coordinates on ALC acquisition programs
         for automated or programmable systems/equipment and coordinates with other agencies
         as appropriate. Provides specification/performance criteria and documentation for
         automated equipment. Conducts feasibility studies for application of automation to the
         intermediate maintenance process. Participates in customer workload negotiation by
         preparing proposals and Memorandums of Agreement. Assists in integration of computer
         programs and system, subsystems and equipment to ensure design performance and
         compatibility in coordination with the system engineering function. Evaluates Test
         Program Sets (TPSs) designs across the entire B-2 avionics program. Evaluates
         contractor prepared ECPs for Operational Flight Software (OFS), Ground Based
         Software (GBS) and TPSs. Participates in or conducts System/Software Requirement
         Reviews, Preliminary Design Reviews, Critical Design Reviews, Pre-Award Surveys,
         Functional Qualification Testing, Physical/Functional Configuration Audits and other
         technical interchange meetings for OFS, GBS and TPSs. Assists in evaluation and
         defines the cause of software deficiencies related to weapon system support. Determines
         and recommends changes required to correct these deficiencies. Assists in maintaining
         liaison with using activities to identify existing and incipient support problems. Assists
         in identification of requirements, develops, manages, maintains and up-grades computer
         resource facilities. Assigned responsibility is software support to B-2 OFPs, GBS and
         TPSs.
5. Command. Oklahoma City Logistics Center (OC-ALC), Tinker AFB, Oklahoma, is a
primary subordinate unit of the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) and is assigned to HQ
AFMC.
6. Organizational Structure. The organizational structures of OC-ALC and its subordinate
units are in accordance with the Air Force Objective Blueprint, AFI 38-101 (Air Force
Organization), Air Force Organization, and HQ AFMC/HQ USAF-approved variances to the
structures.
      6.1. Applicability Statement. This mission directive applies to OC-ALC. It does not apply to
      the Air Force National Guard (ANG) and US Air Force Reserve (USAFR).
      6.2. Approved Variances. The CSAF-approved Air Force Objective Blueprint authorizes
      Public Affairs, History, and Staff Judge Advocate (typical objective wing staff functions) to
      be on the staff of the OC-ALC Commander and authorizes wing comptroller and contracting
      functions to be aligned under the OC-ALC Commander. TMD 406-00, 1 February 2003.
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                             31




   6.3. Organization Changes. Requests to change the organizational structures of the OC-ALC
   and its subordinate organizations and units must be made in accordance with AFI 38-101 and
   HQ AFMC/A1/A1M policy guidance. Requests must be staffed through OC-ALC/DPB,
   approved by the OC-ALC Command Section, and submitted with justification, proposed
   mission statements and organizational charts, to HQ AFMC/A1/A1M for staffing approval.
7. Relationships to Other Units or Agencies.
8. Terms Explained. None.




                                          ROBERT D. LABRUTTA, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 72d Air Base Wing
 32                                                    TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
NATO Standardization Agreement (STANAG) 2473, Commander’s Guide to Radiation
Exposures in Non-Article 5 Crisis Response Operations, October 06, 2004
Code of Federal Regulations (CFRs), current editions
Title 10, Energy, Parts: May 21, 2010
Part 20, Standards for Protections against Radiation, May 25, 2010
Part 30, Rules of General Applicability to Domestic Licensing of Byproduct Material, May 19,
2010
Part 33, Specific Domestic Licenses of Broad Scope for Byproduct Material, May 19, 2010
Part 40, Domestic Licensing of Source Material, May 19, 2010
Part 70, Domestic Licensing of Special Nuclear Material, May 19, 2010
Title 29, Labor, Part 1910, Occupational Safety and Health Standards, Subpart 1096, Ionizing
Radiation, July 24, 2006
Title 49, Transportation, Part 173, Shippers--General Requirements for Shipments and
Packaging, June 14, 1984
DoD Instruction 6055.8, Occupational Radiation Protection Program, March 31, 1989
AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force, April 13, 2007
AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, October 12, 2001
AFI 91-108, Air Force Nuclear Weapons Intrinsic Radiation Safety Program, November 29,
1993
AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry, August 07, 2006
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, July 01, 2001
TO 33B-1-1, Nondestructive Inspection Methods, Basic Theory, June 15, 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF RDL—Air Force Radiation Dosimetry Laboratory
ALARA—As Low As Reasonably Achievable
BEF—Bioenvironmental Engineering Flight
Ci— Curie
DoD—Department of Defense
TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                 33


DoE—Department of Energy
DoT—Department of Transportation TINKERAFBI48-148 23 AUGUST 2010 23
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
ESOHC—Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Council
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulation
GLD—Generally Licensed Device
MML—Master Materials List
NDI—Nondestructive Inspection
NARM—Naturally-Occurring or Accelerator-Produced Radioactive Material
NRC—United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission
PWS—Performance Work Statement
RAM—Radioactive Material
RIC—United States Air Force Radioisotope Committee
RPD—Radiation Producing Device
RSO—Radiation Safety Officer or Radiation Protection Officer
SNM—Special Nuclear Material
SOO—Statement of Objectives
SOW—Statement of Work
TLD—Thermoluminescent Dosimeter

Terms
Air Force Radiation Dosimetry Laboratory (AF RDL).— The USAF School of Aerospace
Medicine, Occupational and Environmental Health (USAFSAM/OEHHD) Radiation Dosimetry
Laboratory, Brooks City-Base TX.
Air Force Radioactive Recycling and Disposal Office (AFRRAD).— The 88th Air Base
Wing, Office of Environmental Management (88 ABW/EM), Wright-Patterson Air Force Base,
OH.
As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA).— The principle that personnel exposures must
be maintained as low as possible consistent with existing technology, cost and operational
requirements.
Curie (Ci).— The Ci is a unit of radioactivity, defined as: 1 Ci = 3.7×1010 radioactive decays
per second. This is roughly the activity of 1 gram of the radium-226 (226Ra), a substance studied
by the pioneers of radiology, Marie and Pierre Curie (for whom the unit is named). Typical units
of measure in relation to the Curie are the milliCurie (mCi) and microCurie (μCi), 10-3 Ci and
10-6 Ci respectively.
 34                                                    TAFBIMD38-102 1 DECEMBER 2011


Radiation Safety Officer (RSO).— The person that the commander designates, in writing, as
the executive agent for the installation, organization or unit radiation safety program. Same as
radiation protection officer‖ or health physics officer.
IRSO.— An individual designated by the Installation Commander (72 ABW/CC) to manage the
base radiation safety program. This individual will usually be a bioenvironmental engineer or
health physicist, if assigned, but may be a Bioenvironmental Engineering Craftsman (AFSC
4B071). This individual conducts the base-wide radiation safety program which includes
surveillance of all RAMs and RPDs. The IRSO coordinates with and assists the unit, permit or
license and medical facility RSOs as necessary to ensure a comprehensive and coordinated
radiation safety program.
License RSO.— See Permit or License RSO.
Medical Facility RSO.— An individual designated by the Medical Treatment Facility
Commander (72 MDG/CC) to manage the medical facility’s radiation protection program. This
individual will usually be a health physicist or medical physician who has specialized training
and experience in medical radiation protection programs. In the absence of a health physicist, a
base bioenvironmental engineer may be designated (the same as Unit RSO), provided no nuclear
medicine services exist. In such circumstances, a physician will be identified as the RSO for
nuclear medicine.
Permit or License RSO.— An individual designated by the Unit Commander, directorate or
equivalent and approved by the NRC, State of Oklahoma or RIC to manage the radiation
protection aspects associated with the use of RAM or RPDs for which a specific NRC, State or
RIC permit or license has been issued.
Unit RSO.— An individual designated by the Unit Commander to act as the single focal point
for the unit on radiation protection matters. A Unit RSO will be appointed for each operational
unit which operates RPDs or uses RAM. The Unit RSO may also be a permit or other RSO. This
individual coordinates radiation surveys or hazard evaluation activities with the IRSO or
permit/license RSO; assists in investigation of suspected or actual overexposures and performs
those radiation protection duties at the unit level which are commensurate with his/her training
and experience. For units that are required to have radiation permits/licenses or have personnel
on the TLD program, a specially designated Unit RSO must be appointed.
Radioisotope.— Radioactive isotope is an isotope of an element or atom whose number of
neutrons makes the element radioactive. Radioisotopes may refer in general to materials that
contain radioactive isotopes, i.e. RAM.
Thermoluminescent Dosimeter (TLD).— A TLD is a type of dosimeter, an instrument that
measures the amount of radiation absorbed in a given period. A TLD measures ionizing radiation
exposure by measuring the amount of visible light emitted from a crystal in the detector when the
crystal is heated. The amount of light emitted is dependent upon the radiation exposure.
