BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                    TINKER AIR FORCE BASE
TINKER AIR FORCE BASE                                                            INSTRUCTION 31-103
                                                                                           26 JUNE 2007
                                                                         Certified Current on 2 April 2013
                                                                                                 Security

                                                      SERVICE OF CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PROCESS



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 72 SFS/S3                                          Certified by: 72 MSG/CC (Col Dean C Jackson)
Supersedes OC-ALC TINKERAFBR 125-3,                                                         Pages: 3
           3 February 2002

This instruction establishes policy and outlines procedures for serving civil and criminal processes on
Tinker Air Force Base by civil authorities and private process servers of the United States or of any state
of the United States. It is applicable to all military and civilian employees of the Oklahoma City Air
Logistics Center, associate organizations and military dependents residing in base housing. Refer recom-
mended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using
the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMTs 847 from the field through
the base publications/forms managers. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363),
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication contains changes to office symbols and primary office of responsibility and should be
completely reviewed.


1. WHO IS RESPONSIBLE:
   1.1. The 72d Security Forces Squadron, Operations Section (72 SFS/S3) is responsible for monitoring
   service of civil and criminal processes on military personnel, civilian personnel, military dependents
   residing on Tinker Air Force Base and personnel working on base. Civil and criminal processes are
   served in a law enforcement setting to ensure disruptive behavior is minimized to prevent disrupting
   installation work centers and to preclude undue embarrassment to the employee.
   1.2. The Installation Chief Security Forces (CSF), Operations Officer (S3), Security Forces Investiga-
   tions (S2) and their designated representatives are the only individuals authorized to carry out the pro-
   visions of this instruction as they relate to actual process serving. Prior to the scheduled time to serve
2                                                                  TINKERAFBI31-103 26 JUNE 2007


    court documents, one of the above mentioned individuals will ascertain the nature and validity of legal
    documents and the identity of the process server. They will also inform civil processors that it is the
    prerogative of military commanders to authorize delivery of papers to a member of the military under
    their command. Commanders, directors, or first sergeants may refuse service of a member while on
    duty, except in the case of service by civilian law enforcement agencies. NOTE: Civilian employees
    and military dependents have the same rights as active duty military.

2. POLICY:
    2.1. Routing requests from civil authorities will be received and processed during normal duty hours,
    0730-1630, Monday through Friday. Emergency requests, such as those which must be served on a
    weekend or holiday, will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis in accordance with Oklahoma statutes.
    Such requests will go through the TAFB Force Protection Operations Controller (FPOC) at 734-3737.
    2.2. For military members, the 72 SFS will notify the member’s first sergeant or commander, whereas
    for civilian members, notification will be made to the supervisor or branch chief of the person to be
    served.
    2.3. To facilitate serving of civil processes, the supervisor/organization commander of an on duty
    member will direct the person to report to the 72 SFS Operations Branch. The 72 SFS will advise the
    person of the nature of the papers to be served, the identity of the process server and that the process
    server may legally serve the papers. If the individual named in the process declines to voluntarily
    accept service of this process at 72 SFS Operations Branch, Security Forces will not allow private pro-
    cess servers to proceed on base to attempt to complete the process.
    2.4. Duly sworn officers/agents of City, County, State or Federal Law Enforcement agencies serving
    legal documents generally are handled in the same manner as private process servers, with few excep-
    tions. When an appointment is made through the supervisor and the employee refuses to report to the
    Security Forces building and accept the legal papers, the officers/agents will be escorted by SF mem-
    bers to the employee’s duty section. The supervisor of the individual will also be advised the
    employee is not allowed to take annual or sick leave to avoid the legal paper and must remain at their
    duty station until the law enforcement official arrives to effectively serve court documents

3. SERVING WARRANTS:
    3.1. AFI 51-1001 governs the delivery of personnel to United States civilian authorities for trial. In
    each instance of criminal prosecution, the case will be coordinated with the Staff Judge Advocate
    (OC-ALC/JA).
    3.2. In the event of a pending arrest, the CSF or S3 will determine what assistance will be provided to
    civil authorities upon their request. The supervisor/organization commander of the person being
    arrested will be notified of pending action unless the judgment of the 72 SFS authorities deem such
    notifications could endanger innocent personnel or cause the flight of the person being arrested. Upon
    presentation of a valid arrest warrant, Security Forces will escort civilian police authorities to arrest
    the person named, if located on base. If the Security Forces unit receives official notice that a person
    on base is wanted on a valid arrest warrant, SF may detain the person named in the warrant, for a rea-
    sonable period of time, until the arrival of civilian police authorities arrive to facilitate the arrest.
    NOTE: Only active paid deputies and sworn officers of the court with arrest authority are allowed to
    make an arrest on Tinker AFB.
TINKERAFBI31-103 26 JUNE 2007                                                                       3


4. TINKER AFB MILITARY DEPENDENTS BEING SERVED:
  4.1. Dependents of military personnel residing on base, or their guardian, will be notified by tele-
  phone of the date and time to report to the 72 SFS Operations Branch (Bldg 591).



                                            MARK A. CORRELL, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
