BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          TRAVIS AFB INSTRUCTION 32-307
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                                        15 JUNE 2001

                                                                                                    Housing

                                                                 RANDOM DORMITORY INSPECTION
                                                                                     PROCESS


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
              http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: 60 AMW/JA (Capt Sheri K. Jones)                      Certified by: 60 AMW/DS (Col Jack F. Peters)
                                                                                             Pages: 8
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 32-60, Housing. It prescribes policies and procedures for random
health, morale, and safety dormitory inspections of unaccompanied enlisted military dormitories. This
instruction applies to all dormitories on Travis Air Force Base.



1. OBJECTIVE:
   1.1. Provides general guidelines for conducting random health, morale, and safety dorm inspections.
   An inspection is defined as an examination of a person, property, or premises for the primary purpose
   of ensuring the security, military fitness, and/or good order and discipline of the organization or instal-
   lation. The goals of dormitory inspections are to ensure the dormitory is in good order, no damage to
   government property, no violation of dorm instructions, and no illegal contraband is stored in the dor-
   mitory.
   1.2. Distinction between Inspection and Search:
       1.2.1. Inspection: a tool used by a commander to determine and ensure the security, military fit-
       ness, or good order and discipline of the unit. It may include such purposes as determining the unit
       is properly equipped, maintaining proper standards of readiness, sanitation, cleanliness, and that
       personnel are present, fit and ready for duty, according to the Rules of Military Evidence 313(b).
       1.2.2. Search: any governmental intrusion or quest for incriminating evidence into an area in
       which an individual has a reasonable expectation of privacy; Katz vs United States, 389, U.S. 347
       (1967).

2. RESPONSIBILITIES:
   2.1. Wing Commander:
       2.1.1. Will ensure all health, safety, and morale dorm inspections are selected on a random basis
       to ensure fairness. At his/her discretion, the Wing Commander will randomly select a date and a
2                                                                      TRAVISI32-307 15 JUNE 2001


       dormitory for inspection. All dormitories are subject to the random selection including dorms pre-
       viously selected.
    2.2. Command Chief (CCM):
       2.2.1. Will notify/coordinate with applicable agencies to include first sergeants, commander(s) of
       selected dorm, Security Forces, Air Force Office of Special Investigations, Demand Reduction
       Office and Legal Office.
       2.2.2. Will detail first sergeants to provide Senior Noncommissioned Officers (SNCOs) to serve
       as monitors/observers.
    2.3. Squadron Commanders/First Sergeants of inspected dormitory:
       2.3.1. Will have an inspection kit readily available containing disposable gloves, paper bags, mas-
       ter keys, dorm roster reflecting date of birth, dorm layout with tentative areas designated for
       inspectors/perimeter monitors, magic markers, pens, stapler, and clipboards.
    2.4. Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI) and Security Forces (SF) Investiga-
    tions:
       2.4.1. AFOSI and SF personnel will serve primarily as advisors to the first sergeants/inspectors.
       2.4.2. AFOSI or SF personnel will be assigned to each dorm floor. Inspections should direct all
       questions/concerns about potential contraband to AFOSI or SF assigned to that floor.
       2.4.3. AFOSI and SF personnel do not inspect rooms. If questionable items are discovered, they
       will search the room, as required, based on probable cause.
       2.4.4. AFOSI and SF personnel will coordinate with JA personnel to determine probable cause as
       required.
       2.4.5. AFOSI and SF personnel will NOT conduct investigations regarding underage drinking or
       possession, wrongful cohabitation, or adultery. The squadron commander/first sergeant will han-
       dle these matters.
       2.4.6. SF personnel will assist in obtaining a blood alcohol content on an individual if requested
       by the commander/first sergeant.
       2.4.7. SF or AFOSI personnel will interview individuals who may want to provide a statement.
       First Sergeants will NOT conduct interviews.
       2.4.8. Security Forces Squadron (SFS) will provide military working dogs and handlers as
       required to assist with the inspection.
       2.4.9. SFS commander will coordinate with the fire department for fire alarm activation.
    2.5. Legal Office:
       2.5.1. Judge Advocate (JA) personnel will be available on-scene to provide assistance to the
       inspectors. JA personnel along with AFOSI will make the determination if probable cause exists
       for a search in the event an inspector finds a questionable item.
    2.6. Demand Reduction Office:
       2.6.1. Demand Reduction Office personnel are responsible for collection and safeguarding urine
       samples provided by dorm residents.
TRAVISI32-307 15 JUNE 2001                                                                                 3


     2.6.2. The preferred collection site is Building 381 at the Demand Reduction Office. This pre-
     vents chain of custody issues, transporting samples, and affords for secure storage of samples.
     However, an alternate location may be selected if appropriate for the dormitory inspection loca-
     tion.

3. INSPECTION PROCEDURES/GUIDELINES:
  3.1. Notification Procedures:
     3.1.1. Squadron commander(s) and first sergeant(s) of the dormitory being inspected will be noti-
     fied no earlier than two duty days prior to the inspection by the CCM. The CCM will notify legal
     office, AFOSI, SFS, and Demand Reduction Office. All other essential personnel will be notified
     no earlier than one duty day prior to inspection date. During final notification, the CCM will task
     first sergeants to bring SNCOs to the inspection to serve as monitors, as required. The first ser-
     geant detailing the SNCOs will follow the required guidelines/criteria established by the Demand
     Reduction Office as listed in Attachment 1.
     3.1.2. Upon initial notification, the first sergeant responsible for the applicable dorm will do the
     following:
        3.1.2.1. Make inspection assignments. Assign first sergeants as inspectors. As a minimum, the
        detailed SNCOs will be assigned (based on dormitory layout): two bus monitors, four dorm
        perimeter monitors, and four male/two female urinalysis observers.
        3.1.2.2. Coordinate with transportation for bus and driver. Contact Vehicle Operations not
        later than one hour prior to requirement. One hour minimum notice is required to request bus
        and driver after duty hours.
        3.1.2.3. Recall dormitory manager no earlier than 1 duty day prior to inspection. Dormitory
        manager is utilized for storing/safeguarding confiscated items during inspection and providing
        assistance to first sergeants/inspection team.
  3.2. The Inspection Process:
     3.2.1. On the morning of the inspection, the affected first sergeant/inspectors will do the follow-
     ing:
        3.2.1.1. Distribute inspection assignments to first sergeants and other monitors/observers as
        members arrive to inspection pre-brief.
        3.2.1.2. Provide dormitory roster to bus monitors, Demand Reduction Office, and JA.
        3.2.1.3. Upon fire alarm activation, inspectors will ensure all military members present have
        their military ID card before directing the member to get on the bus for transport to Demand
        Reduction Office. The bus monitor will ensure all military members fill out a urine specimen
        letter on the bus before arriving at Demand Reduction Office. Civilian guests will be asked to
        leave the dorm room during the inspection and directed to a central location such as a dayroom
        to wait for the sponsor to return. Members will print and sign name, annotate social security
        number and squadron. Additionally, the bus monitor will verify the member’s military ID
        against the urine specimen letter prior to arrival at collection site. Upon arrival at the collection
        site, the bus monitor will turn signed letters over to Demand Reduction personnel.
        3.2.1.4. No rooms will be inspected prior to the military working dog completing their portion
4                                                                       TRAVISI32-307 15 JUNE 2001


          of the inspection.
          3.2.1.5. Rooms with no occupants present can be inspected once the dogs are done. Rooms
          with occupants present will NOT be inspected until the member returns from providing a
          urine sample.
          3.2.1.6. Secure/safeguard confiscated items.
    3.3. Inspection Procedures/Parameters:
       3.3.1. Be consistent in your approach in each dormitory room; open the same closets and drawers
       in each room; do not target any particular room.
          3.3.1.1. Contraband items are rarely displayed in plain view. Typically they are well hidden or
          concealed. Do NOT let the fact that the military working dogs did not alert in the room lull
          you into a false sense of security. Military working dogs cannot detect all types of contraband.
          3.3.1.2. Open all closed closets and drawers where contraband could be stored.
          3.3.1.3. Do NOT open locked closets or lockers without consent of the dorm resident who
          occupies the room where the locked closet or locker is located. If the person does not consent,
          DO NOT open it. Consult AFOSI/SF/JA to determine if probable cause exists before opening
          a locked closet or locker.
          3.3.1.4. Do NOT open the locked storage bins without consent. Verbal consent is acceptable
          but ensure a third party is present when consent is given. If you believe you may have probable
          cause to open a locked storage bin, consult with a JA representative.
       3.3.2. Listed below are items to look for/confiscate, which are considered illegal contraband:
          3.3.2.1. Illegal narcotics and related drug paraphernalia. All drug paraphernalia, to include
          water bongs, are considered contraband even if displayed for decorative purposes.
          3.3.2.2. Weapons to include switchblade knives, double-edged knives, or other edged knives
          with a blade longer than two and one-half inch, cane gun, wallet gun, any undetectable fire-
          arm, any firearm which is not immediately recognizable as a firearm, any camouflaging fire-
          arm container, any ammunition which contains or consists of any flechette dart, any bullet
          containing or carrying explosive agent, any ballistic knife, any multiburst trigger activator, any
          nanchaku, any short barreled shotgun, any short barreled rifle, metal knuckles, belt buckle
          knife, leaded cane, zip gun, shuriken, unconventional pistol, lipstick case knife, cane sword,
          shobi-zue, air gauge knife, writing pen knife, metal military practice hand grenade or metal
          replica hand grenade, any instrument or weapon commonly known as blackjack, sling shot,
          billy club, sand club, sap, or sandbag, BB/pellet guns, paint ball guns, bows, compound bows,
          crossbows, blow guns and any other item to be used as a weapon or firearm.
          3.3.2.3. Alcohol, if the occupant is under legal drinking age.
          3.3.2.4. Child pornography or other types of sexual materials unlawful under California and
          Federal Code.
          3.3.2.5. Fraudulent military ID cards.
          3.3.2.6. Expired prescription drugs or any prescription drug not issued to the resident.
          3.3.2.7. Candles and incense that exhibit evidence of burning.
TRAVISI32-307 15 JUNE 2001                                                                          5


     3.3.3. If an illegal or questionable item is discovered, do NOT move or touch the item if at all
     possible. Notify an AFOSI or SF investigator immediately for clarification.
     3.3.4. If an individual tries to make a spontaneous statement that either incriminates, or may
     potentially incriminate, do NOT ask any questions and immediately coordinate an interview with
     the AFOSI or SF personnel.
  3.4. Post Inspection Considerations:
     3.4.1. Squadron commanders/first sergeants will track and follow-up on dormitory residents not
     present at the time of inspection. They will ensure the resident provides a urine sample the next
     duty day member is available.
     3.4.2. Squadron commanders/first sergeants will take appropriate administrative/disciplinary
     action based on findings/outcome of inspection.
     3.4.3. Provide feedback to CCM and other agencies as requested.



                                                     JACK F. PETERS, Col, USAF
                                                     Director of Wing Staff
6                                                      TRAVISI32-307 15 JUNE 2001


                                        Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-60, Random Dormitory Inspection Process.
TRAVISI32-307 15 JUNE 2001                                                                                7


                                                 Attachment 2

            DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM INFORMATION – DRUG TESTING
                            OBSERVER BRIEFING
1. To qualify as an observer, you MUST meet the following criteria:
1.1. You are of the same sex as the member being observed.
1.2. Not selected for testing in the same session as the one in which they are observers.
1.3. No UIF.
1.4. No history of conviction by court-martial or civilian court, non-judicial punishment under Article 15,
UCMJ, or letter of reprimand or similar administrative action for misconduct involving dishonesty, fraud,
or drug abuse (including possession or distribution).
1.5. No pending action under the UCMJ or pending administrative action.
1.6. Not within six months of either separation or retirement from active duty or in the case of the Air
National Guard and Air Force Reserve, one year of either separation or transfer from an active participa-
tion status.
1.7. No medical profile which will prevent them from performing their assigned duties as observers.
1.8. Commissioned officer or enlisted member in the grade of Senior Airman or above. The use of
non-commissioned officers (NCO) as enlisted observers is strongly recommended unless the situation
dictates otherwise. In the event of the unavailability of NCOs to perform observer duties, personnel in the
grade of Senior Airman may be used, but only with the concurrence of the servicing Staff Judge Advo-
cate.
1.9. Not assigned to work in any legal office.
2. The following are duties and responsibilities as an observer:
2.1. Direct the individual providing the specimen to remove bulky outer garments.
2.2. You must observe the member verify the correct SSAN, batch and bottle numbers, and date. You must
observe the member sign and initial the ledger (Drug Abuse Testing Roster) to verify this information.
You must then sign and initial the ledger.
2.3. You must observe the member receiving the empty specimen bottle from the laboratory-testing mon-
itor. Once the member has been handed the specimen bottle, you must observe the specimen bottle at all
times until the collection process is completed.
2.4. You must accompany the member to the designated collection area. Make sure the member does not
open the specimen bottle until he/she is ready to urinate into the specimen bottle.
2.5. Direct the member to wash his/her hands with only water and dry them prior to providing a specimen.
2.6. You must DIRECTLY observe the flow of urine from the member’s body into the specimen bottle.
Females may urinate into a sterile wide-mouth specimen cup. The female member, under your direct
observation, will then pour her urine into the labeled specimen bottle. Ensure the specimen bottle is
recapped and not reopened by the member. The member may blot the recapped specimen bottle with a
paper towel. The member may NOT run the bottle under the water. To prevent damage/smearing of the
label, the member may NOT wash/rinse their hands until the specimen bottle has been turned into the lab-
8                                                                       TRAVISI32-307 15 JUNE 2001


oratory-testing monitor. If the member cannot produce the required amount of urine in a single collection,
have the member recap the specimen bottle and return it to the laboratory-testing monitor for further
instructions.
2.7. You must stay with the member until ready to exit the bathroom. Neither the member nor the speci-
men bottle can be out of your sight at any time. You must observe the member carry the specimen bottle
out of the bathroom and hand it to the laboratory-testing monitor.
2.8. You must report any unusual or suspicious activity observed during the collection process to the drug
testing office. If contamination or adulteration is suspected, prepare MFR to accompany specimen.
2.9. The laboratory-testing monitor will inspect the specimen bottle for adequate volume and any evi-
dence of tampering or adulteration. If the specimen bottle is acceptable, you must observe the laboratory
testing monitor apply tamper resistant tape to the specimen bottle.
2.10. You must observe the member initial and date the specimen bottle. You will then be asked by the
laboratory-testing monitor to initial and date the specimen bottle. This is the only time you are permitted
to have any contact with the specimen bottle. NOTE: DO NOT HANDLE THE SPECIMEN BOTTLE
AT ANY TIME UNTIL IT IS TIME TO INITIAL THE LABEL.
3. You must report all incidents of known, or suspected abuse, adulteration, or unusual behavior immedi-
ately to the proper authorities.
