BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                INSTRUCTION 38-101


                                                                          4 DECEMBER 2008
                                                             Certified Current on 28 April 2011

                                                                  Manpower and Organization

                                                                  WING DETAIL PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 60 AMW/CCK              Certified by: 60 AMW/CCC (CMSgt Michael M. Williams)
Supersedes: TRAVISAFBI38-101, 23 January                                Pages: 10
2004

This instruction implements AFPD 38-1, Organization. It establishes policies and procedures for
administering the wing detail program. It prescribes how details will be requested and tasked.
The procedures ensure equitable selection of detail personnel and apply to all assigned Air
Mobility Command organizations assigned to Travis Air Force Base.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
to include: Updates instructions; realigns text formatting and incorporates ratio of groups to
determine manning for details (i.e., Base Appearance Team).

1. General.

1.1. Definition. A base detail is a special, required task that must be accomplished when an
OPR does not have the necessary manpower. It is normally a one-time, temporary requirement.
A detail is separate and distinct from an additional duty assigned and performed on a continual
basis.

1.2. Groups/squadrons will use their own resources for details and additional duties caused by
temporarily increased workloads, relocations, etc. They will consider only military personnel
assigned to their unit as available resources for internal details and other special duties.

1.3. Requirements for specialized support or military formations, i.e., administrative personnel,
parades, retreat ceremonies, project officers, and honor guards, are not base details.
Appointments to serve on boards, panels, councils, projects, or committees are considered
additional duties.

1.4. Whenever possible, details will not exceed 10 days in duration and should be limited to duty
days only, except for Inspector General preparation, highly visible trials, and the Base
Appearance Team which is a daily recurring detail (each group will be accountable for a 30-day
period). Group superintendents may assign personnel to details on a daily, weekly, or monthly
basis depending upon work center manning requirements. However, on recurring details, every
attempt should be made to assign personnel for at least one (1) full week to eliminate the
necessity of training of new personnel on a daily basis.

2. Tasking Requirements.

2.1. Base details are limited to Public Affairs (PA)/Protocol support, local Commander
Readiness Exercise (CRE) assistance, and specific 60 AMW/CC requests. Based on manning
availability, First Term Airman Center (FTAC) personnel may be used to fill local CRE
assistance type details. Details not falling in the above categories will be accomplished in-house,
but not higher than the group level of the requesting organization.

3. Responsibilities.

3.1. The Superintendent, Wing Executive Services (60 AMW/CCK) will:

3.1.1. Manage the Base Detail Program for the 60 AMW/DS.

3.1.2. Coordinate detail actions with 60 AMW/CCC and group superintendents.

3.1.3. Compute monthly, the total number available for each group based on the group assigned
strength summary provided from 60 FSS/FSMP and the approved group detail exemptions.
Confirm validity of requirement and determine appropriate tasking. Maintain a file copy of
request letter until tasking is completed. (see paragraph 5 for ratios).

3.1.4. Forward 60 AMW Form 89, Request for Detail to group superintendents (Attachment 4).
On short-notice details, group superintendents are informed via e-mail or telephone. Written
justification is required when groups are unable to support detail taskings.
3.2. 60 FSS/FSMP will email to 60 AMW Wing Administration (distribution list) an assigned
strength summary of all groups on Travis AFB, NLT the 30th of each month.

3.3. All group superintendent/detail managers will:

3.3.1. Maintain a copy of TAFBI 38-101, Wing Detail Program.

3.3.2. Notify the Base Detail Manager immediately through written correspondence (or verbally,
if a conflict exists) signed by the group commander when assigned personnel strength changes
occur (i.e., large number of people TDY, or on group deployments). Departure and return dates
shall be included in the correspondence.

3.3.3. Forward annual Detail Exemption Letters to 60 AMW/CCK NLT 1 January of each year.
Exemption Letter must be endorsed by the group commander. (See paragraph 5).

3.3.4. Complete 60 AMW Form 89, Blocks 1-13, or return reply via e-mail or fax, upon receipt
of a tasking notice and forward to 60 AMW/CCK by the established suspense date.

3.3.5. Ensure individuals selected for details are notified of the date, time, reporting place,
POC’s name, duty phone, and uniform requirements. For any additional information individuals
selected for details need to call the detail POC, not 60 AMW/CCK.

3.3.6. All efforts should be made to ensure individuals selected for details are not scheduled for
leave, appointments, etc., during the entire detail period. If replacements are required, the tasked
group superintendent or representative must notify the detail POC, NLT the day before the
replacement is scheduled to take place.

3.3.7. Notify 60 AMW/CCK whenever group personnel have been assigned permanently to base
details (e.g., removing a member from the duty section due to conflicts, investigations, etc.) This
action will eliminate double tasking of details to groups by 60 AMW/CCK.

3.3.8. Uniform requirements for individuals performing details consist of appropriate clothing
items listed as initial issue in AFI 36-3014, Clothing Allowance for Air Force Personnel, e.g.,
BDUs, appropriate headgear, boots, gloves, and jacket with liner. OPRs requesting a detail will
specify uniform requirements and provide all necessary organizational equipment, tools, and
additional required clothing, e.g., heavy duty gloves, rain gear, extreme cold weather gear, steel-
toed boots, etc., to perform the detail.

4. Annual Detail Exemption/Relief from Details.

4.1. No organization on Travis AFB is exempt/excused from base details unless an approval
letter is on file with 60 AMW/CCK prior to the established suspense date. NOTE: A group’s
participation in a base exercise is not an automatic exemption from recurring details.

4.2. Every group superintendent on Travis AFB must submit an annual detail exemption letter
to 60 AMW/CCK, NLT 1 January of each year, using the format in Attachment 3. Letters will
be revalidated on an annual basis. If no exemption letter is received, taskings will be based on
strength available from 60 FSS/FSMP. NOTE: Exemption letters require group commander
signature.

4.3. Exemptions will be broken down by number in each grade/rank (e.g., 3 E-6s, not 3
personnel). This breakdown is to differentiate all E-1s through E-6s, since the majority of base
details are filled by these grades. For disapproved exemptions, 60 AMW/CCK will hand carry a
copy of the disapproved endorsement to the requesting group superintendent for notification. If
you do not receive a disapproved endorsement letter within three (3) duty days and/or an email,
all endorsements requested were approved.

4.4. If a group requires relief from the base detail program, the commander will submit written
justification immediately to 60 AMW/CCK using Attachment 3. Detail taskings will be filled
by tasked organizations until the group’s request is approved by 60 AMW/DS. NOTE:
Coordinate with respective squadrons for replacements, prior to submitting relief letters.

5. Categories for Base Details. Normally, details will consist of the following categories.

Table 1. Field Grade Officers
Field Grade Officers                              Maj through Col
Company Grade Officers                            2d Lt through Capt
SNCOs                                             MSgt through CMSgt
NCOs                                              SSgt through TSgt
Airman                                            AB through SrA

Table 2. Base Appearance Team Detail Ratios
Base Appearance Team Detail Ratios/month as of 1 Jan 2004:
MSG                                           3
MDG                                           2
OG                                            1
MXG                                           3
615 CRW                                       1 (every 2 months)—2 months on/1 month off
Wing Staff/Tenant Units                       1 (every 3 months)—1 month on/2 months off


5.1. Group quotas in each category will be determined by subtracting the number of excused
personnel from the number assigned. Then, the resulting figure will be used to determine the
number of personnel available to pull details in each category.

6. Detail Request Letters.

6.1. Submit 60 AMW Form 89 to 60 AMW/CCK NLT 15 workdays, prior to detail date.
(Attachment 4).

7. Administrative Procedures.
7.1. The group superintendent or their designated representative must sign Block 13 of 60 AMW
Form 89.

7.2. It is the responsibility of the requesting agency to prepare administrative orders or letters of
appointment, if required. Also, the requesting agency should maintain a copy of the tasking
letter for future reference. The 60 AMW/CCK will dispose of records IAW the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af/mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/, after completion of tasking.

8. No Shows.

8.1. Detail OPRs will notify the individual’s first sergeant for a replacement when detail
personnel fail to report on the appointed date and time. The OPR will contact 60AMW/CCK
with all “No Shows.” Missed requirements will be added to that group’s next tasking.

9. Forms Prescribed. 60 AMW Form 89, Request for Detail.

10. Forms Adopted. AF IMT Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




MARK C. DILLON, Colonel, USAF
Commander, 60th Air Mobility Wing
                                     ATTACHMENT 1

GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFI 36-3014, Clothing Allowance for Air Force Personnel
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/, Records Disposition Schedule
AFPD 38-1, Organization

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB—Airman Basic
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMW—Air Mobility Wing
CAPT—Captain
CCC—Command Chief Master Sergeant
CCK—Commander’s Knowledge Operations
CGO—Company Grade Officer
CMSGT—Chief Master Sergeant
COL—Colonel
CRE—Commander Readiness Exercise
CRW—Contingency Response Wing
FSMP—Personnel Employment
DS—Director of Staff
FSS—Force Support Squadron
FTAC—First Term Airman Center
IAW—In Accordance With
IMT—Information Management Tool
LT—Lieutenant
MAJ—Major
MDG—Medical Group
MSG—Mission Support Group
MSGT—Master Sergeant
MXG—Maintenance Group
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
NLT—No Later Than
OG—Operations Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PA—Public Affairs
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SRA—Senior Airman
SSGT—Staff Sergeant
TDY—Temporary Duty
TSGT—Technical Sergeant
                           ATTACHMENT 2

Figure A2.1. WING DETAIL FLOW CHART
                                    ATTACHMENT 3

                            DETAIL EXEMPTION LETTER

                          DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                           60TH AIR MOBILITY WING (AMC)




                                                                       (DATE)

MEMORANDUM FOR FOR 60 AMW/CCK

ATTENTION: WING DETAIL MANAGER

FROM: 60 MXG/CC
      501 Hanger Avenue
      Travis AFB CA 94535

SUBJECT: Detail Exemption Letter

3.1. The 60th Maintenance Group requests exemption from all details for quarters CY03/00 and
CY04/00. AFSC manning across the group is down 28% on top of the 12 percent of our people
that are scheduled for deployment during this same time period.

3.2. My POC for this request is CMSgt Johnson.




                                                     JOHN D. DOE, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander
                            ATTACHMENT 4

Figure A4.1. 60 AMW IMT 89 - REQUEST FOR DETAIL




                                    (Group Superintendent or Designee)
