BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                         33-109

                                                                                  19 APRIL 2011

                                                                Communication and Information

                                                      SOFTWARE LICENSE MANAGEMENT
                                                                          PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 60 CS/SCO                                                            Certified by: 60 CS/CC
                                                                         (Lt Col Ian G. Schneller)
                                                                                          Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Information Resource
Management, and AFI 33-114, Software Management. It establishes policies, procedures, and
responsibilities for software license management at Travis Air Force Base (TAFB). It applies to
all personnel (officer, enlisted, and civilian) assigned or attached to units located at TAFB. This
instruction clarifies commander involvement in the Travis Software Licensing Program. It also
outlines responsibilities for the 60th Communications Squadron Commander (60 CS/CC), Base
Software License Manager (BSLM), Unit Software License Managers (USLMs), Client Support
Technicians (CSTs)/Functional Service Administrators (FSAs), and individual users. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.

1. 60th CS/CC Responsibilities.
   1.1. The 60 CS/CC will designate primary and BSLM to manage the wing and base software
   license programs.
2. Unit Commander Responsibilities.
 2                                                       TRAVISAFBI33-109 19 APRIL 2011


     2.1. All unit commanders will:
        2.1.1. Appoint a primary and alternate USLM to administer the software license
        programs. At the discretion of the Group Commander, unit level responsibilities may be
        assumed by the Group. See Attachment 2.
        2.1.2. Forward USLM appointment memorandums to the BSLM.
        2.1.3. Ensure the outgoing and incoming license managers conduct a joint inventory of
        all software and endorse all inventories.
        2.1.4. Annually certify in writing to the BSLM that the annual inventory list or
        memorandum has been completed by the USLM. This is accomplished by signing the
        annual inventory list or memorandum.
        2.1.5. Ensure software acquisitions are coordinated through the respective software
        license manager and BSLM prior to purchase.
        2.1.6. Ensure delivered software is routed through the respective software license
        manager. Ensure the BSLM is informed so the software can be added to the inventory.
        2.1.7. Ensure necessary training for users and maintainers is obtained for unique
        software purchased or developed by the unit.
     2.2. Alternatively, waived from paragraph 1.1, Unit CC’s annually certifies they have no
     software requiring USLM responsibilities and will ensure internally that training
     requirements in paragraph 4.1.11. are met. Unit CC will notify BSLM if unit purchases
     software.
3. BSLM Responsibilities.
     3.1. BSLM will:
        3.1.1. Place semiannual reminders of the need for proper software license management
        in base bulletins and other media to increase and reinforce the legal requirement of
        maintaining software licenses according to their stated conditions.
        3.1.2. Provide software license training for newly appointed BSLMs and USLMs and
        cross feed locally developed materials between unit managers, CSTs, and FSAs. This
        training will include, but is not limited to:
            3.1.2.1. Ensuring USLMs are familiar with AFI 33-114, paragraph 9
            3.1.2.2. Ensuring USLMs complete the United States Air Force Software License
            Management and Anti-Piracy computer-based training.
            3.1.2.3. Explaining how to maintain accurate records of installed software.
            3.1.2.4. Learning the basics of software licenses and the Copyright Act.
            3.1.2.5. Ensuring Commercial-off-the-Shelf (COTS) application has a license.
            3.1.2.6. Verifying that the use of software corresponds to the applicable license
            agreement.
TRAVISAFBI33-109 19 APRIL 2011                                                                  3


         3.1.2.7. Identifying software that does not have associated licenses, coordinating with
         USLMs for assembling proofs of purchase, and requesting replacement licenses from
         publishers, as needed.
         3.1.2.8. Performing periodic compliance visits to base units. Inspect unit accounts at
         least once annually.
         3.1.2.9. Conducting annual software license meetings for USLMs.
         3.1.2.10. Maintaining current list of all USLMs.
         3.1.2.11. Ensuring automated tools are used to the maximum extent possible for
         tracking software installed on the base network.
         3.1.2.12. Ensuring approval is obtained from the Designated Approval Authority
         (DAA) for any software placed on computers or computer systems on the base
         network.
4. USLM Responsibilities.
   4.1. USLM will:
      4.1.1. Become familiar with license agreements of software used in his/her
      organizations.
      4.1.2. Coordinate with the BSLM, FSAs, CSTs, users, and/or purchasers on all software
      acquisitions.
      4.1.3. Combine software acquisitions, if possible.
      4.1.4. Receive all new software, inform the BSLM of the new software, and become
      familiar with license agreements prior to releasing software for installation.
      4.1.5. Store evidence of license agreements of licenses (user manuals, purchase
      documentation, CD-ROMs, etc.) and physical software media in a secure location (locked
      drawer, file cabinet, room, etc.).
      4.1.6. Ensure the legal acquisition and use of all software.
      4.1.7. Identify software that does not have associated licenses, assemble proofs of
      purchase, and request replacement licenses from publishers, as needed.
      4.1.8. Act as liaison between personal computer (PC) users and BSLM.
      4.1.9. Respond to the BSLM as necessary.
      4.1.10. Coordinate training with the BSLM, as needed.
      4.1.11. Ensure newly assigned personnel receive software license training within 30 days
      of their arrival and annually thereafter. This training will include, but is not limited to:
         4.1.11.1. Promoting user awareness of unauthorized or illegal use of computer
         software.
         4.1.11.2. Providing how and to what extent the user may be held liable for
         unauthorized or illegal use of computer software.
         4.1.11.3. Training users on procedures for acquiring new software.
 4                                                        TRAVISAFBI33-109 19 APRIL 2011


            4.1.11.4. Make users aware of the importance of identifying unauthorized or illegal
            software on their systems.
        4.1.12. Circulate software licensing information throughout the organization.
        4.1.13. Support and implement the base software license program.
        4.1.14. Perform an annual inventory of all unit software.
        4.1.15. Perform a joint inventory of software before transferring responsibility to another
        software license manager. Ensure the unit commander endorses the hard-copy report.
5. CST/FSA Responsibilities.
     5.1. CSTs and FSAs will:
        5.1.1. Notify USLMs when installing software from shared folders or using installation
        compact read-only memory disks.
        5.1.2. Notify USLMs when uninstalling, upgrading, or performing any actions that
        change the amount or number of licensed software products installed on the base
        network.
        5.1.3. Ensure software covered by an enterprise license agreement is not transferred with
        hardware when performing Information Technology Hardware Asset Management
        transfers.
        5.1.4. Not purchase or obtain software without prior coordination of the USLM.
6. PC User Responsibilities.
     6.1. Each PC user will:
        6.1.1. Assist USLMs with software inventories on PCs as required.
        6.1.2. Not install or remove any software application without first coordinating with the
        USLM.
        6.1.3. Not make any illegal copies of copyrighted software.
        6.1.4. Not install personally owned software on his/her government system unless DAA
        approval is obtained and documented in the Certification and Accreditation package or
        the Department of Defense (DoD) Information and Technology Security Certification
        Process (DITSCAP). Refer to DoD Instruction 52040, Information and Technology
        Security Certification.
        6.1.5. Report all unauthorized or illegal software on his/her system to the USLM for
        resolution.
        6.1.6. Complete initial software license training within 30 days of arrival and annually
        thereafter.




                                             JAMES C. VECHERY, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 60th Air Mobility Wing
TRAVISAFBI33-109 19 APRIL 2011                                                                       5


                                           Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 5200.40, DoD Information and Technology Security Certification Process (DITSCAP), 30
Dec 1997
AFI 33-114, Software License Management, 13 May 2004


Prescribed Forms: None
Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.


Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADPE—Automated Data Processing Equipment
BSLM—Base Software License Manager
COTS—commercial-off-the-shelf
CST—Client Support Technicians
FSA—Functional Service Administrators
PC—personal computer
USLM—Unit Software License Manager

Terms
DoD Information Technology Security Certification and Accreditation Process
(DITSCAP)—The DoD standard for certifying and accrediting IT systems that collect, store,
transmit, or process unclassified or classified information. The standard applies to any IT life
cycle, including the development of new IT systems, incorporation of IT systems outside the
infrastructure, development of prototype IT systems, and reconfiguration or upgrade of existing
systems and legacy systems.
License Agreement—A contract between the software publisher and the user which instructs
and limits how the software is to be used. When software is purchased, the purchaser acquires a
license to use it, but the publisher retains full rights to the software and can further distribute and
reproduce it. License agreements generally fall into the following categories:
Enterprise License—The DoD Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI) and the Enterprise Software
Agreements (ESA) entered into by DoD components who manage the acquisition of
commercially available software at the DoD Enterprise level to reduce the cost of acquiring and
maintaining software products. By aggregating requirements and leveraging DoD’s buying
power together with the buying power of related communities of interest such as the Intelligence
Community, the DoD is able to achieve the most favorable terms and pricing for commercially
available software and software maintenance.
 6                                                     TRAVISAFBI33-109 19 APRIL 2011


Individual License—A license for use on a single machine only.
Network License—A license that allows every member of the network to access the software.
Site License—A license defined by a geographic restriction, such as a building, unit, wing, or
base.
TRAVISAFBI33-109 19 APRIL 2011                  7


                                 Attachment 2
                        SAMPLE MEMORANDUM
