BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                INSTRUCTION 33-305

                                                                            28 JANUARY 2009


                                                             Communications and Information

                                            INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY HARDWARE
                                                             ASSET MANAGMENT


         COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
———————————————————————————————————————
ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
———————————————————————————————————————

OPR: 60 CS/SCOSW                             Certified by: 60 CS/CC (Maj Robert A. Sylvester)

                                                                                       Pages: 8

This instruction implements AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management. It establishes
local procedures for improving the accuracy of Information Technology (IT) Hardware Asset
Management accounts of assigned equipment custodians. Historically, annual IT inventories
have been accomplished late and incomplete generating a significant number of Reports of
Survey due to missing equipment. Although the existing Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-112,
Information Technology Hardware Asset Management covers individual responsibilities within
units, in practice these procedures are difficult to maintain throughout each year. This
publication adds procedures not covered within the AFI but necessary to improve equipment
accountability base wide. This policy applies to all units and tenants on Travis AFB serviced by
60 CS for IT accountability.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af/mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
2                                                      TRAVISAFBI33-305 28 JANUARY 2009

1. Responsibilities.

1.1. Base Equipment Custodian Officer (BECO) will:

1.1.1. Conduct inspections of Equipment Custodian (EC) accounts every 24 months.

1.1.1.1. BECO will look for evidence of excess and unauthorized equipment, compare contents
of EC's 6-part folder with the BECO maintained folder and assess overall effectiveness of IT
management within the unit.

1.1.1.2. Accounts not being properly managed will be re-inspected in approximately four weeks.

1.1.2. Train ECs on local procedures.

1.1.3. Provide updates to ECs via e-mail regarding new requirements and hot topics.

1.1.4. Manage the planning and purchase of IT assets to refresh out of warranty systems for
O&M funded items per the direction/funding from HQ/AMC.

1.1.4.1. Coordinate with EC’s to distribute assets and advise them of out of warranty turn-ins.

1.1.4.2. Assist EC’s with purchase and planning for new requirements or special IT needs
outside the normal QEB (Quarterly Enterprise Buy) program.

1.1.5. Advise ECs of receipt of equipment (within five duty days) and establish a pick-up time.

1.1.5.1. Commanders will be notified of items not picked up.

1.1.6. Establish 90 day suspense from time of receipt of new equipment for turn-in or transfer of
old assets.

1.1.7. Provide ECs with an updated inventory upon request.

1.1.8. Periodically advertise available serviceable IT assets to all Travis AFB ECs.

1.2. Commanders will:

1.2.1. Appoint a primary and at least one alternate for each account. ECs must be highly
motivated individuals with sufficient understanding of operations to assist with determining
requirements.

1.2.2. Ensure the primary or alternate are available at all times (i.e.; not on the same Air
Expeditionary Force (AEF) rotation).
TRAVISAFBI33-305 28 JANUARY 2009                                                                  3

1.2.3. Appoint a replacement when the EC receives departure notification, but No Later Than
(NLT) 90 days prior to EC's date of departure.

1.3. Equipment Custodians (ECs) will:

1.3.1. ECs must complete online training at https://private.amc.af.mil/owgm/index.cfm and
request local procedures training from the BECO prior to assuming responsibility for an IT
equipment account.

1.3.2. Conduct annual inventory of IT equipment upon direction by the BECO. ECs request a
Report of Survey (ROS) be initiated for any asset identified as missing and after all means of
locating the item have been exhausted. Refer to AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air
Force Property, for guidance and information pertaining to individual liability.

1.3.3. Ensure users sign for all IT assets outside of the EC’s span of control. EC’s may use hand
receipts, logs, databases etc. to meet their needs. Do not delegate accountability to section
supervisors or executive assistants for portable IT assets.

1.3.4. EC’s are encouraged to use additional labels to include Account number, and EC contact
information to help manage assets for large accounts or accounts that span multiple facilities.

1.3.5. Ensure all purchased IT equipment (O&M, TWCF, NAF, DGMC funding) is shipped to
the following address:

60 CS/SCOSW Attn: Base Equipment Control Officer
Mark for: (Requesting Account Number, Unit/Office Symbol)
581 Waldron Street Bay G
Travis AFB, CA 94535-2120

1.3.6. Report all equipment not shipped directly to the above address to 60 CS/SCOSW for
immediate accountability.

1.3.7. Out-process BECO NLT 60 days prior to estimated date of departure due to Permanent
Change of Station (PCS), Permanent Change of Assignement (PCA), separation or retirement. A
new primary EC must be appointed and a joint inventory must be conducted before an EC may
out-process. Failure to accomplish these actions may delay EC out-processing from the base. 60
CS/SCOSW is listed in the Virtual Military Personnel Flight (vMPF) out-processing for all
Travis members.

1.3.8. Notify the BECO when IT equipment is considered excess.

1.3.9. Turn excess equipment identified by the BECO into Defense Reutilization Marketing
Office (DRMO). Provide the BECO with signed DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt
4                                                    TRAVISAFBI33-305 28 JANUARY 2009

Document within one duty day of turn in. Copies of DD Form 1348-1A’s will be maintained by
ECs in their folder. (Note: ECs responsible for NAF-purchased equipment may sell that
equipment through approved methods. A receipt from the sale will serve as the signature on the
DD Form 1348-1A.)

2. Excess Equipment.

2.1. In accordance with current AMC policy, squadrons are allowed one desktop or laptop per
person, unless mission dictates otherwise. Squadrons are responsible for reducing computer
requirements to meet that standard.

2.2. Units will keep only equipment necessary to meet mission requirements. A maximum of
2% excess above authorizations outlined in paragraph 2.1. may be maintained by a unit to
provide emergency replacement in the event of equipment failure.

2.3. Squadrons must turn in like items after receipt of IT refresh items. For example, if a
squadron has received 10 new computers through the QEB program (O&M, TWCF, NAF,
DGMC funding), the EC must turn in or transfer 10 old computers. ECs will be given 90 days to
complete turn in or transfer of assets when new items are picked up from the BECO.

2.4. ECs wishing to turn-in equipment not identified for IT refresh must contact the BECO for
approval to begin the process. Upon approval, the BECO will generate the DD Form 1348-1A.

3. Technology Refresh.

3.1. IT assets should be planned for technical refresh upon expiration of their warranty period as
funding allows. Refer to documentation or manufacturer’s website for warranty information.
Additionally, the BECO can assist with providing warranty information for IT assets.

3.2. 60 CS/SCOSW will plan for replacement of desktops, laptops, and monitors over a rolling
3-year period as funding allows. Purchases will be made through the QEB program at the
AFWAY website: https://www.afway.af.mil.

3.2.1. 60 CS/SCOSW will plan monitor purchases based on 1 monitor per desktop. Units
desiring multi-monitor installations will have their EC’s purchase additional monitors via
QEB/AFWAY using unit funds (O&M, TWCF, NAF, DGMC funding).

3.2.2. Units with specialized IT requirements that cannot be met by the refresh will be required
to submit a PWRR and fund the purchase with unit funds upon approval.

3.3. IT assets not specifically mentioned in paragraph 3.2. (For example; printers, digital
cameras, scanners etc.) are the responsibility of unit EC’s to plan and purchase with unit funds
(O&M, TWCF, NAF, DGMC funding) via QEB/AFWAY.
TRAVISAFBI33-305 28 JANUARY 2009                                                                      5

3.4. Equipment will not be purchased outside the QEB/AFWAY program without an approved
waiver from AMC/CIO. This includes O&M, TWCF, and DGMC funding. Contact the BECO
for guidance on the waiver process.

3.5. Non Appropriated Funds (NAF) purchases are encouraged to use AFWAY if it is the most
cost effective means. However, if alternate purchasing sources offer a lower cost, NAF
purchases may make the purchase from those sources without a waiver. Regardless of the
purchase avenue, all NAF IT purchases must be delivered to the address outlined in paragraph
1.3.5. of this instruction.

3.6. Minimum operating standards for computers on an Air Force network are available from the
BECO. As those minimum standards change, ECs will be notified.

3.7. Units will ensure their most mission critical IT assets are replaced first so those items have
warranty support and move older items to less critical/non-essential positions.

4. Maintenance and Warranties.

4.1. Warranties for most IT equipment expire after three years. For items covered under a valid
warranty, all maintenance will be performed by the manufacturer IAW their warranty
instructions.

4.2. If the warranty is a "mail-in" warranty, the EC will ship at the direction of the vendor. The
EC will maintain a complete record of the shipped item, date of shipment and tracking
documentation. ECs will closely monitor vendor progress until the item is returned.
Immediately report losses of shipped items to the BECO and request ROS initiation through their
unit commander.

4.3. If the vendor ships a replacement part, the EC may notify the 60 CS Communications Focal
Point to request assistance with installation of the replacement part. The EC is responsible for
repackaging the failed part and promptly returning it IAW the vendor’s instructions.

4.3.1. If the vendor ships a replacement computer, notify BECO upon receipt to allow for
inventory adjustment. EC will provide copies of the shipping and maintenance documentation
from paragraph 4.2. to the BECO.

4.4. The 60th Communication Squadron will not perform maintenance on any IT asset that is out
of warranty. Units are not authorized to purchase parts to repair assets no longer covered by
warranty. The BECO will provide warranty status for assets upon request.
6                                              TRAVISAFBI33-305 28 JANUARY 2009

4.5. Adopted Forms.
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1348-1A, Issue Release/Receipt Document

4.6. Prescribed Forms.
No Forms prescribed by this publication.




                                                       MARK C. DILLON, Colonel, USAF
                                                       Commander, 60 AMW
TRAVISAFBI33-305 28 JANUARY 2009                                              7

                             Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 Jun 2006
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 20 April 2006
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AEF—Air Expeditionary Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMW—Air Mobility Wing
BECO—Base Equipment Custodian Officer
CIO—Chief Information Officer
DGMC—David Grand Medical Center
DRMO—Defense Re-utilization Marketing Office
EC—Equipment Custodian
HQ/AMC—Headquarters Air Mobility Command
IAW—In Accordance With
IMT—Information Management Tool
IT—Information Technology
ITHAM—Information Technology Hardware Asset Management
NLT—No Later Than
NAF—Non Appropriated Funds
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCA—Permanent Change of Assignment
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PWRR—Project Workflow Requirement Resource
QEB—Quarterly Enterprise Buy
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
ROS—Report of Survey
vMPF—Virtual Military Personnel Flight
8                                          TRAVISAFBI33-305 28 JANUARY 2009

                                    Attachment 2
                            IT ASSET LIFECYCLE FIGURE

Figure A2.1. IT Asset Lifecycle Chart
