BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                INSTRUCTION 47-101

                                                                                  22 JULY 2009
                                                              Certified Current on 28 April 2011
                                                                                         Dental

                                                                         DENTAL SERVICES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 60 DS/CC                                             Certified by: 60 MDG/CC (Col Lee E.
                                                                                      Payne)
Supersedes:   TRAVISAFBI47-101, 11 February                                         Pages: 4
              2002



This instruction implements AFPD 47-1, Dental Services. It outlines the responsibilities,
requirements and procedures of the 60th Dental Squadron (60 DS). This instruction applies to all
units assigned, attached, tenant or associate to the 60th Air Mobility Wing, and who are
authorized dental care in accordance with the provisions of AFI 47-101, Managing Air Force
Dental Services and AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in Military
Service System (MHSS).

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af/mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974, authorized by 10 U.S.C. § 55, Medical and Dental Care, and Executive Order 9397.
System of records notices F162 AF SG A, Dental Health Records, and F168 AF SG A,
Automated Medical/Dental Record System, apply. All forms subject to AFI 33-332, Air Force
Privacy Act Program, and required by the original publication or this supplement either contains
or has a Privacy Act statement attached.
2                                                           TRAVISAFBI47-101 22 JULY 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include:
deletion of the following statements: “appointments will be documented by the use of the AF
Form 490, Medical/Dental Appointment” and “only the unit health monitor may
cancel/reschedule the periodic dental exam”.
1. Responsibility.
    1.1. The mission, responsibilities, organization, and administration of dental activities are
    defined in AFPD 47-1 and AFI 47-101.
    1.2. The 60 DS/CC has responsibility for ensuring effective dental service is provided in
    compliance with the Joint Commission and Air Force Inspection Agency Health Services
    Inspection standards.
    1.3. Organizational commanders are responsible for implementing and enforcing policies
    and procedures that will ensure compliance with this instruction.
2. Established Guidelines.
    2.1. The 60 DS/CC establishes procedures and guidelines for receiving dental care and
    ensures dental treatment is readily available based on staffing, facilities, and mission
    requirements.
    2.2. The 60 DS/CC establishes priorities for access to dental care and determines the levels
    of treatment available for the various beneficiary groups.
    2.3. Emergency Dental Care. Emergency dental treatment for patients in need of immediate
    attention to relieve undue pain and suffering, control bleeding, manage acute infections or
    injuries to the oral and maxillofacial structures is available at all times. Emergencies are seen
    at the dental clinic during normal duty hours. After duty hours, non duty days and holidays,
    emergency dental care may be obtained by reporting to 60 MDG Emergency Room (ER).
    ER physicians will contact the dental officer on call when indicated. Emergencies will be
    treated based on immediacy, not beneficiary status or time of arrival.
    2.4. Appointment Scheduling. Appointments may be scheduled or canceled during clinic
    duty hours by telephone or in person, except as noted in paragraph 2.6 Patients must notify
    the Dental Clinic at least 24 hours in advance if unable to keep an appointment.
    2.5. Broken Appointments. Patients failing to meet an appointment or those arriving late for
    a scheduled appointment without appropriately notifying the dental service are charged with
    a broken appointment (i.e., failure to go). Organizational commanders should take
    appropriate action upon notification of a broken appointment and counsel personnel under
    command of the necessity and personnel responsibilities to meet scheduled appointments.
    2.6. Dental Readiness Assurance Program. The 60 DS/CC ensures all dental programs
    enhance the dental readiness of the military force. The main components of the program are
    periodic dental exams to determine individual's dental readiness classification, ongoing
    dental treatment to maximize dental "oral health," accomplishing active duty dental
    clearances for remote duty and communication with commanders on the dental readiness of
    their personnel. Organizations are notified through their unit health monitors when their
    members require the mandatory periodic dental exam. Commanders at all levels must ensure
TRAVISAFBI47-101 22 JULY 2009                                                            3


   maximum participation by unit members. The 60 DS monitors compliance and maintains
   participation rates, which will be forwarded to commanders as needed and upon request.
   2.7. 60 DS/CC establishes an ongoing Preventive Dentistry Program incorporating clinical
   and community aspects, and children's health phase.
3. Prescribed Forms. AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                         MARK C. DILLON, Colonel, USAF
                                         60th Air Mobility Wing Commander
4                                                    TRAVISAFBI47-101 22 JULY 2009


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program
AFI 41-115, Authorized Health Care and Health Care Benefits in Military Service System
(MHSS)
AFPD 47-1, Dental Services
AFI 47-101, Managing Air Force Dental Services
