BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                  TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              INSTRUCTION 21-202
                                                                                  10 NOVEMBER 2004

                                                                                           Maintenance

                                                                    MUNITIONS RECONCILIATION
                                                                                 PROCEDURES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 60 EMS/CC (Major Charles S. Nesemeier) Certified by: 60 MXG/CC (Colonel Keith D. Frede)
                                                                                    Pages: 5
                                                                             Distribution: F

This operating instruction implements AFPD 21-1, Managing Aerospace Equipment Maintenance. This
instruction prescribes policy and procedures for the reconciliation of built-up Aerial Defense System
(ADS) flares to include AFI 36-2217, Munitions Requirements for Aircrew Training, and AFI 21-201,
Management and Maintenance of Non-Nuclear Munitions. Procedures established herein are applicable
to peacetime, wartime, and contingency operations. This instruction pertains to all personnel attached or
assigned to Travis Air Force Base.


1. Safety Precautions.
   1.1. The Maintenance Operations Center (MOC), Munitions Flight, Fire Department, Explosives
   Ordnance Disposal (EOD), Squadron Explosives Safety, and Wing Weapons Safety will be notified
   immediately in the event of any mishap involving munitions. All nonessential personnel will be evac-
   uated to a minimum distance of 600 feet from the mishap area.
   1.2. Any flare-loaded magazine dropped in excess of 10 feet (packaged) or three feet (unpackaged)
   will be rejected and returned to the munitions storage area for proper inspection and disposition.
   1.3. Assembled flare magazines are Electro-Explosive Devices (EEDs). Do not transmit on hand-held
   radios or cellular telephones within 10 feet of flare magazines.
   1.4. When a “lightning warning” is issued, or when lightning is observed within five nautical miles,
   all flare-handling/transportation operations will cease and explosive-laden vehicles will immediately
   be parked at a safe distance (at least 100 feet) from resources and the vehicle occupants evacuated.
   1.5. Expended flare modules will be handled as serviceable (non-expended) until inspected and certi-
   fied by qualified Munitions Flight personnel.

2. General Procedures.
   2.1. On normal duty days, built-up ADS flares will be reconciled daily no later than 1100 hours.
2                                                           TRAVISAFBI21-202 10 NOVEMBER 2004


    2.2. All units involved with the build-up, delivery, and upload/download operations will maintain
    strict documented accountability of all munitions assets.

3. Munitions Flight Responsibilities.
    3.1. Will perform flare delivery and pick-up as directed by 60 EMS Maintenance Supervision
    (ECHO-3).
    3.2. Perform all maintenance actions needed to ensure serviceable flares are available for upload.
    3.3. Account for and track munitions loaded on aircraft by performing the following:
       3.3.1. Annotate all deliveries and downloads on the designated flare tracking sheets in the Aircraft
       Defense System (ADS) LOG, and enter into the Combat Ammunition System (CAS).
    3.4. Ensure that downloaded flare sets are inspected prior to being returned to service.
    3.5. Notify the munitions account custodian of expenditure quantities by flare, squib lot number, and
    set number daily upon processing.
    3.6. Ensure that the flight line is inventoried and reconciled against the Flare Status Tracking Board
    daily by 1100 hours, process flare downloads as applicable.
       3.6.1. Munitions Flight will not accept downloaded flare sets that are packed with squibs facing
       down.
    3.7. Reconciliation will be accomplished by conducting a physical inventory of the flares built-up in
    the munitions structures, those loaded on aircraft, and in flight line holding areas. Results of inventory
    will be compared against the MOC munitions tracking sheet, flare tracking system or G081 (if appli-
    cable). During war time or contingency operations, AMC assets and all AMC aircraft will be sup-
    ported regardless of ownership, however, all efforts will be made to load home-station munitions
    assets onto home-station aircraft prior to utilizing a different organization’s assets. If none are avail-
    able, the Munitions Flight will support munitions requirements for AMC off-station aircraft in support
    of wartime or contingency requirements. If other than the aircraft’s owning organization’s assets are
    used, the issuing organization will notify the aircraft’s owning organization’s Munitions Accountable
    Supply Officer (MASO) of the transaction. If both organizational MASOs agree, organizations will
    create turn-in and shipping documents for transfer of assets as applicable.
    3.8. Upon receipt of munitions tracking sheet from MOC, the Munitions Flight will verify reconcili-
    ation of all built-up flares including training, operational, and mobility assets.
    3.9. The Munitions Flight, in coordination with MOC, will be the focal point in resolving all recon-
    ciliation discrepancies. Only upon successful completion of munitions reconciliation will more muni-
    tions be delivered. Notify ECHO-3 when reconciliation is complete.
    3.10. Monitor flare service life, start and expiration dates on all built-up flares and components.
    Notify the Munitions Flight Chief, 60 EMS Maintenance Supervision, and MOC of upcoming flare
    expiration 30 days prior to the actual expiration date. Notification will include flare set number, appli-
    cable lot numbers, and current location of the flare set. Include aircraft tail number if applicable. Flare
    sets within 30 days of expiration will immediately be removed from service upon return to home sta-
    tion.
TRAVISAFBI21-202 10 NOVEMBER 2004                                                                             3


   3.11. Munitions Flight is responsible for ensuring the flight line storage conex is stocked with ser-
   viceable flare sets for use during non-duty hours.
   3.12. Provide ECHO-3 annual training on proper handling and transportation of MJU-10/MJU-7 flare
   sets.
   3.13. Monitor squib miss poll records for trends and forward information to Item Manager for further
   action. In the event a flare set fails to register “bingo” level of 60 or more, set will be returned to muni-
   tions flight, set will be cleaned IAW Item Manager direction and returned to service. If set fails to reg-
   ister on second attempt, set will be disassembled and rebuilt before return to service.

4. 60 EMS Maintenance Supervision/ECHO 3 responsibilities.
   4.1. Focal point for delivery, pick-up, and cross loading of ADS munitions during non-duty hours.
   4.2. Will ensure only serviceable and certified sets of flare are dispatched for upload.
   4.3. Will ensure flare tracking and accountability sheet is properly annotated.
   4.4. Will comply with all safety regulations governing handling of explosives.
   4.5. Assumes responsibility, accountability, and safekeeping of assets stored in flight line storage
   conex.
   4.6. Will contact munitions flight standby personnel for flare set removal/re-supply in the event phys-
   ical capacity if conex is exceeded, or in need of re-supply. Munitions standby will be notified when
   the serviceable number of flare sets falls below two serviceable sets.

5. Maintenance Operation Center (MOC) Responsibilities.
   5.1. MOC is the 60th Air Mobility Wing focal point for the verification of aircraft parked on the flight
   line loaded with flares. It is imperative the MOC maintain visibility/tracking of all flares loaded on
   TAFB aircraft.
   5.2. Document flare load status in G081 for all aircraft parked at Travis Air Force Base.
   5.3. Notify the fire department of all aircraft loaded with flares by means of the Situation Report.

6. 60 CMS Responsibilities.
   6.1. Maintain sufficient quantities of spare replacements parts to repair flare modules.

7. Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (AMXS) Responsibilities.
   7.1. Provide adequate control, safety/security for munitions issued to them.
   7.2. Inspect the flare set and sign the Flare Tracking Sheet upon delivery to the aircraft.
   7.3. The flight line expediter will notify the ECHO-3 and MOC upon completion of upload, cross
   load or download of flares by aircraft tail number and flare set number.
NOTE: The set number can be obtained from the flare transportation container.
   7.4. Complete an AFTO Form 350, Repairable Item Processing Tag, Misspoll Tally Sheet tag for
   defects noted with either the flare or the module and provide information to Munitions Line Delivery
   driver/ECHO-3.
4                                                         TRAVISAFBI21-202 10 NOVEMBER 2004


    7.5. Ensure that all downloaded flares are placed in containers with plates facing up. Munitions Flight
    will not accept flare sets that are positioned upside down.
    7.6. Flight Line Expediter or Transient Alert will notify MOC of the flare load status when aircraft
    land.

8. Adopted Forms: AFTO Form 350, Repairable Item Processing Tag.



                                               ALLARD R. CARNEY, Colonel, USAF
                                               Director of Wing Staff
TRAVISAFBI21-202 10 NOVEMBER 2004                                      5


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards
AFI 21-101 and AMCSUP1, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
AFI 21-201, Management and Maintenance of Non-Nuclear Munitions
AFI 36-2217, Munitions Requirements for Aircrew Training
T.O. 11A-1-33, Handling and Maintaining of Explosive loaded aircraft
