BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                INSTRUCTION 91-212

                                                                         13 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                         Safety

                                                 THE BIRD/WILDLIFE AIRCRAFT STRIKE
                                                 HAZARD (BASH) REDUCTION PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 60 AMW/SEF                                                       Certified by: 60 AMW/SE
                                                                 (Lt Col Christopher Van Hoof)
Supersedes:   TRAVISAFBI91-212,                                                        Pages: 17
              25 February 2008


This instruction provides a base program to minimize aircraft exposure to potentially hazardous
wildlife strikes. It implements AFI 91-202, US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program and
AFPAM 91-212, Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH) Management Techniques. This
instruction applies to all host, associate, and TDY organizations on Travis AFB, including US
Air Force Reserve members and units. The 60 AMW/CC is responsible for implementation of
this instruction. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM)
publications/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: No substantive changes were made to the current instruction (grammatical corrections
only).
 2                                                   TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012


1. General Information.
     1.1. The purpose of this instruction is to significantly reduce the bird/wildlife aircraft strike
     hazard at Travis AFB. Aircraft bird/wildlife strikes cannot and will not be accepted as
     unavoidable. This plan should be used in conjunction with the Integrated Natural Resources
     Management Plan (INRMP). Small mammal control operations needs to be listed in the
     INRMP. This instruction establishes procedures to reduce the Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Strike
     Hazard through bird/wildlife avoidance and control (including harassment, grounds
     maintenance, habitat modification, and depredation) to allow for operational mission
     departures/arrivals and local training.
     1.2. This instruction will be implemented upon receipt and remain active year-round, as a
     significant bird hazard exists at Travis AFB. This plan contains two phases of operation:
     Phase I and Phase II. Phase I concentrates on wildlife control and dispersal and is in effect
     year round. Phase II is used in conjunction with Phase I procedures and concentrates on
     wildlife avoidance, using scheduling and airfield operating restrictions. Phase II is
     implemented during the September through April migration period. These dates may vary if
     migratory waterfowl arrive/depart the local area early/late. The Operations Group
     Commander will implement and terminate Phase II upon advisement from Wing Safety that
     the migratory wildlife populations have increased or decreased significantly.
2. BASH Program Information.
     2.1. A significant bird/wildlife hazard exists at Travis AFB. The hazard is a result of the
     close proximity of the installation to several wildlife refuges and the presence of landfill
     facilities near both ends of the runways.
     2.2. Two passes through the hills west of Travis AFB act as major flight paths for birds
     flying inland from the San Francisco Bay area. One of the passes is in close proximity to
     Travis AFB and is part of the Suisun Marsh, one of the last remaining natural wetlands in
     Northern California. Gulls, ducks, geese, and other birds leave and return to the marsh
     through this southwest pass en-route to the Sacramento River Delta and lands surrounding
     Travis AFB.
     2.3. The wildlife strike problem at Travis AFB is further complicated by numerous hunt
     clubs who maintain habitats to attract waterfowl for hunting and nearby landfills which
     attract large numbers of gulls. Two landfills are located on opposite ends of the Travis AFB
     runways. The Fairfield landfill is located 1.5 miles from the approach end of Runway 03L
     and the Vacaville landfill is 4 miles from the approach end of runway 21L. Considerable
     gull flight activity between the two sites increases the risk to aircraft.
     2.4. Agricultural activities play a key role in maintaining large populations of small birds in
     the spring and early fall, as well as 400,000 to 500,000 blackbirds during the winter months.
     A large rodent population on the base and the surrounding agricultural land supports a large
     numbers of raptors.
     2.5. Bird strikes with waterfowl are a serious problem at Travis AFB. This is due to Travis
     AFB being situated on the Pacific Flyway and is a wintering area for a very large population
     of ducks and a significant population of geese and swans. Migratory and diurnal flight
     activities by the birds create a substantial risk to flight operations. Ducks begin their daily
     flights just before sunrise and may continue to fly for up to two hours after sunrise. Morning
TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                3


  duck movements begin east of Travis AFB with birds flying out of the Yolo Bypass,
  Hastings Slough, and the refuges north of Sacramento. Flocks flying east out of the Suisun
  Marsh and the Nurse, Denverton, and Hill Sloughs soon join these westerly flights. Low
  clouds, haze or fog often delay the departure of the birds, causing them to fly later in the day.
  Most late afternoon bird flights occur at sunset and may last up to an hour.
  2.6. Bird Hazard Working Group (BHWG). The BHWG meets to review wildlife strike data,
  identify and recommend actions to reduce hazards, and changes in operational procedures.
  The BHWG meetings should discus, at a minimum following topics: wildlife strike statistics,
  bird activity, habitat management/modification, BASH plan procedures, BASH awareness
  and education, and activities/results of the wildlife management contractor. The BHWG may
  meet quarterly. The BHWG is hosted by Wing Safety and is chaired by the Vice Wing
  Commander. Other members of the BHWG include: Command Post, Operations Group
  Commander, Standardization/Evaluation, Operations Support Squadron Commander,
  Airfield Management, Tower, Current Operations, Natural Resource Manager, Civil
  Engineer Operations Flight, CONS, Travis Aero Club, 349 AMW Chief of Safety, and World
  Bird Sanctuary Wildlife Control Team.
  2.7. Concept of Operations. Bird/wildlife aircraft strike hazard reduction operations will be
  implemented in two phases.
     2.7.1. Phase I: Bird/wildlife control and dispersal. This phase also includes procedures
     to discourage the presence of birds and warn of bird conditions. These measures will be
     implemented year round.
     2.7.2. Bird Dispersal Operations. The Wildlife Control Contractor, Airfield Management
     or Wing Flight Safety may accomplish bird dispersal operations. Dispersal operations
     include, but are not limited to the use of working dogs, falcons, pyrotechnics, and paint
     ball guns. Prior to conducting dispersal, the airfield control tower will be contacted by
     telephone or radio for movement coordination. No bird movements will be accomplished
     until cleared by tower personnel. Personnel performing dispersal will inform tower of the
     location of birds and anticipated movement direction. Tower will upgrade the bird watch
     condition (BWC) for the airfield as appropriate under advisement of the wildlife
     contractors. Once dispersal operations are complete and the birds have vacated the area,
     personnel will contact tower with this information. Once bird dispersal has been
     accomplished, Airfield Management will give Tower the current BWC to be updated, as
     appropriate.
     2.7.3. Grounds Maintenance. By incorporating specific practices into the base land
     management plan, Travis AFB can maintain a flightline habitat less attractive to birds and
     other wildlife. Refer to AFI 91-202 for further information. The grass height goal is 7-
     14 inches “effective height.” This refers to the grass depth after it is cut, not the actual
     height of the mower blade. When cut to the minimum 7-inch level, slower growing grass
     species are not allowed to grow properly, while other species are allowed to grow to
     extreme lengths before being cropped back. The result is a patchwork of short, stumpy
     grass species interspersed with longer, fast-growing patches. Faster growing species of
     weeds should be eliminated or reduced by the controlled use of herbicides and the
     mowing contractor should maintain grass to achieve the 7-14 inches “effective height.”
4                                               TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012


    A properly designed and maintained long grass management program strives to reduce
    the bird population on the airfield.
    2.7.4. Habitat Modification. Meetings and conversations will continue with local fish
    and wildlife representatives, Base Civil Engineer, Natural Resource Manager, and
    Environmental Management to discourage industries that attract birds to the local area.
    These include, but are not limited to, seed crop planting in fields around approach and
    departure corridors, landfill operations, and industries or ventures that create standing
    water.
    2.7.5. Remove Bird And Animal Carcasses From The Airfield. In an effort to avoid
    attracting scavengers, remove carcasses as soon as they are discovered. Forward remains
    which may have been caused by collision with aircraft to 60 AMW Flight Safety for
    identification.
    2.7.6. Pest Controls. Invertebrates and rodents are key food sources for many birds.
    Periodically survey and reduce these pest populations by trapping or other means when
    required.
    2.7.7. Maintaining drainage ditches. Regularly inspect ditches to keep them clear of
    vegetation and debris. Maintain ditch sides as steep as possible (minimum slope ratio of
    5:1) and mow vegetation to discourage wading birds and emergent vegetation. Improve
    drainage as necessary to inhibit temporary ponds or puddles and coordinate with the
    Natural Resource Manager to ensure no impact on wetlands.
    2.7.8. Eliminate Roosting Sites. Where possible, control roosts through vegetation
    management of roost sites. If necessary, prune trees to reduce the number of available
    perches.
    2.7.9. Discourage wildlife feeding. Signs should be placed in picnic areas to educate the
    public on the hazard posed by feeding wildlife, particularly geese.
    2.7.10. Depredation. Studies have shown that over time, wildlife becomes accustomed
    to harassment techniques. Depredation will be used as a last resort and only when there
    is grave threat to personnel or aircraft. Prior coordination is not necessary in the event of
    an emergency. The Migratory Birds Treaty Act (MBTA) defines the guidelines which
    should be followed when executing the depredation permit. The Natural Resource
    Manager should be notified in a timely manner after depredation occurs. Wing Safety is
    the OPR for all planned depredation and permits.
       2.7.10.1. All Military/DOD civilian personnel selected to take part in depredation
       will be certified by Security Forces Squadron through the shotgun qualification
       course IAW AFMAN 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Manual and AFI 31-207,
       Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel. Only qualified Airfield
       Management, Wing Safety personnel and authorized Wildlife Control Contractors
       will conduct depredation activities within the boundaries of the depredation permit.
       2.7.10.2. 60 AMW/SE will issue a letter to 60 SFS authorizing the Wildlife Control
       Contractor to transport weapons and ammunition on base.
       2.7.10.3. Transport weapons and ammunition IAW California state law.
TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                5


        2.7.10.4. Notify 60th Security Forces Control Center (SFCC) and Command Post
        anytime firearms will be discharged on base. Include number of personnel, location,
        start time, and estimated completion time. Notify 60 SFCC and Command Post when
        shooting is actually completed.
        2.7.10.5. All participants will wear blaze orange during depredation operations.
        2.7.10.6. A safety observer who is not shooting will act as a depredation supervisor
        and will have authority to stop shooting or the depredation operations at any time.
        Depredation will be stopped anytime an unsafe act or condition exists. The safety
        supervisor will be trained in accordance with paragraph 2.7.10.1. of this instruction.
        2.7.10.7. The depredation supervisor will brief all participants on purpose of
        depredation, fields of fire, bird height restrictions, no fire zones, and start/stop firing
        signals.
        2.7.10.8. Clear “hold fire” communication will be established and briefed prior to
        depredation.
        2.7.10.9. Instructions for dispersal operations will also apply for bird depredation.
     2.7.11. Bird Watch Condition (BWC). Bird/wildlife activity includes any birds or
     wildlife which may create a hazard. The Airfield Manager, Wildlife Control Contractors,
     or Tower Watch Supervisor may raise the BWC. Aircrew, safety personnel, or other
     operations personnel will call tower to report observed bird activity. Only the Operations
     Group Commander, Operations Support Squadron Commander, Airfield Management, or
     Wildlife Control Team may lower the BWC from MODERATE. Only the Operations
     Group Commander or their designee will have the authority to lower the BWC from
     SEVERE. The standard BWC definitions are listed below and are used AMC-wide to
     warn aircrew and support personnel of the current bird threat to operations. Conditions
     are:
        2.7.11.1. LOW: Normal wildlife activity (fewer than 5 large birds [waterfowl,
        raptors, gulls, etc.] or 15 small birds [terns, swallows, etc.]) on or above the airfield
        with a low probability of hazard.
        2.7.11.2. MODERATE: Increased wildlife population (5 to 15 large birds or 15 to
        30 small birds) in locations that represent an increased potential for a strike.
        2.7.11.3. SEVERE: High wildlife population (more than 15 large birds or 30 small
        birds) on or immediately above the active runway or other specific locations
        (taxiways, in-field areas, and departure or arrival routes) that represent a high
        potential for a strike. Keep in mind a single bird in a critical location may elevate the
        BWC to SEVERE.
        2.7.11.4. The announced BWC will remain in effect until the identified concentration
        of wildlife can be dispersed either through harassment or natural bird movement
        (MODERATE or SEVERE).
     2.7.12. Phase II: Wildlife Avoidance. These procedures used in conjunction with Phase
     I to reduce the potential for wildlife strikes during migratory waterfowl season. Phase II
     normally begins each fall (1 September) with the arrival of the migratory birds and will
     be discontinued in spring (30 April). This period can be shifted when significant
6                                             TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012


    migratory wildlife activity occurs earlier/later than the listed dates. The 60 OG/CC will
    implement Phase II upon notification from Wing Safety when migratory activity has
    increased. Wing Safety will ensure official notification of the start and termination of
    Phase II.
    2.7.13. Phase II BASH window: The Phase II BASH window is in effect from one hour
    before to one hour after sunrise and 30 minutes before to 30 minutes after sunset. BWC
    MODERATE (or SEVERE if activity warrants) restrictions apply during the entire Phase
    II BASH window, even if the actual bird activity is low. All departures during Phase II
    BASH windows require OG/CC approval. Aircrews will coordinate approval through 60
    AMW/CP. Unless observed bird activity dictates, at the conclusion of the BASH
    window, the BWC will automatically revert back to the preceding condition. Current
    Operations will implement the following Phase II scheduling restrictions:
       2.7.13.1. When Phase II is in effect no training mission will be scheduled to
       depart/arrive within the BASH windows. Deviations from this policy require OG/CC
       approval. Operational missions (including civil carriers) should not be scheduled to
       depart/arrive within the BASH windows. The total number of scheduled missions
       (training and operational) which fall within the BASH windows will be approved by
       OG/CC and annotated in the monthly Wing Operations Plan. Additionally, all
       missions will be reviewed and approved bi-weekly at the Air Operations Directive
       meeting.
    2.7.14. BWC Operational Restrictions, All aircraft, including non-AMC aircraft
    (excluding civilian carriers), will adhere to the following restrictions.
       2.7.14.1. LOW: There are no operational restrictions, except during the Phase II
       BASH window (see Paragraph 2.7.17).
       2.7.14.2. MODERATE: The following operational restrictions apply any time a
       MODERATE BWC has been declared.
       2.7.14.3. Initial takeoffs and full stop landings will be allowed only when departure
       and arrival routes avoid identified bird activity.
       2.7.14.4. All local IFR/VFR traffic pattern activity will cease (airborne aircraft/crews
       will terminate transition training in the Travis local pattern).
       2.7.14.5. All aircraft departures require approval by the 60 OG/CC. Airfield
       Management or wildlife control personnel will survey the runways/airfield
       environment for significant bird activity prior to any aircraft departures. Aircrews
       will coordinate approval through 60 AMW/CP. ATC and 60 AMW/CP, in
       coordination with Airfield Management, will advise aircraft on the anticipated delay,
       if known, for bird dispersal or a return to a BWC LOW.
       2.7.14.6. Airborne aircraft will divert, hold, or land. When making this decision,
       Aircraft Commanders should assess the risk by considering fuel status, weather,
       wildlife location, etc.
       2.7.14.7. SEVERE: All flight operations (takeoffs, landings and approaches) are
       prohibited. Airborne aircraft will divert or hold. Deviations require Operations
       Group Commander approval.
TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                              7


          2.7.14.8. When the Travis BWC is MODERATE or SEVERE, all aircraft will be
          issued the appropriate BWC by Airfield Management, ATC or Command Post. Refer
          to paragraph 3.7.4. for ATIS broadcast.
          2.7.14.9. Prior to transitioning at non-AMC airfields, planners/aircrews will obtain
          any available information on anticipated/actual bird activity at the airfield. Aircrews
          experiencing high wildlife activity at these locations will advise their respective
          safety office BASH representative.
          2.7.14.10. When operating at non-AMC airfields, aircrews will use the BWC
          definitions in paragraph 2.7.11 to assess the bird hazard and apply the operational
          restrictions in paragraph 2.7.14
          2.7.14.11. Regardless of Phase I or Phase II operations, all low levels will be
          assessed utilizing the Avian Hazard Avoidance System (AHAS). AHAS should be
          used in mission planning to select a route that will allow for safe mission execution.
          As a minimum, AHAS will be checked prior to mission execution. In an effort to
          reduce the bird strike hazard along low-level routes, crews will observe the following
          restrictions on training missions:
             2.7.14.11.1. AHAS Bird Condition LOW: No restrictions.
             2.7.14.11.2. AHAS Bird Condition MODERATE: Crews will fly no faster than
             250 knots on affected route segments.
             2.7.14.11.3. AHAS Bird Condition SEVERE: Crews will fly no faster than 250
             knots and no lower than 1000 feet AGL (3000 feet AGL at night) on affected
             route segments. Also, the PIC will obtain 60 OG/CC approval prior to
             commencing any flight on affected route segments during Bird Condition
             SEVERE.
          2.7.14.12. The 618th Tanker Airlift Control Center (TACC) or designee has approval
          authority for AMC-tasked flight operations at non-AMC locations. ARC missions
          originating from their home station will obtain approval from their Operations Group
          Commander.
          2.7.14.13. Aircrews requesting waivers while at non-AMC locations will coordinate
          approval with TACC. Exception: The Operations Group Commander is the waiver
          authority for local training missions.
          2.7.14.14. In all cases, operational mission priority must be weighed in determining
          waiver approval. When a waiver is approved for operation during BWC SEVERE at
          AMC locations, the local Operations Group Commander (or higher) must actively
          monitor launch and recovery of aircraft.
3. Organizational Tasking.
   3.1. Vice-Wing Commander.        Chairs the BHWG and is the approval authority for
   recommendations.
   3.2. The BHWG is the primary agency responsible for the control of wildlife affecting
   airfield/flight operations.
   3.3. Operations Group Commander.
8                                                  TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012


       3.3.1. Implement and terminate Phase II upon notification from Wing Safety that bird
       populations have increased or decreased significantly. 60 OG/CC has approval authority
       for AMC aircraft departures during BWC MODERATE and departures or arrivals in
       BWC SEVERE.
       3.3.2. Issue specific guidance on procedures during Bird Watch Conditions.
       3.3.3. Make operational changes to avoid areas and times of known hazardous bird
       concentrations, mission permitting.
    3.4. Wing Flight Safety.
       3.4.1. OPR for the BASH program.
       3.4.2. Complete annual review of this instruction and forward to HQ AMC/SEF
       electronically.
       3.4.3. OPR for the BHWG, which may be held quarterly. Provide locally developed
       metrics to measure and report on wildlife hazard identification, habitat management,
       wildlife watch conditions, and wildlife harassment actions which have actually occurred
       in the previous 90 days.
       3.4.4. Responsible for the reporting of all bird/wildlife strikes (damaging and non-
       damaging) in accordance with AFPAM 91-212 and AFI 91-204 by means of reporting to
       the USAF BASH Team using the Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS) found
       on the Air Force Safety Center web page. Strikes should be reported as they occur using
       AFSAS but must be reported not later than the 15th of the following month.
       3.4.5. Recommend implementation/termination of Phase II of this plan in response to
       significant changes in the local wildlife population or wildlife strike potential. Sources of
       information include the wildlife control contract personnel (Falconer), California Fish
       and Wildlife Division, visual sightings, and historical data.
       3.4.6. Serve as the Quality Assurance Evaluator for the wildlife control contract.
       3.4.7. Maintain liaison with California Department of Natural Resources and
       Environmental Control, Fish and Wildlife Division, and HQ AFSC/SEFW to stay abreast
       of local wildlife populations, movement, and control techniques.
       3.4.8. Educate base population on wildlife strike potential and procedures at Travis AFB,
       to include flying squadron safety offices. Also, educate aircrews of the wildlife strike
       potential at Travis AFB and those airfields frequently transited.
       3.4.9. Ensure TAFBI 91-212 (BASH program) is available on 60 AMW safety web page.
       Notifies AMC/SEF if address changes.
       3.4.10. Advise 60 AMW/CP when Phase II is implemented or discontinued and Post and
       ensure a wildlife strike hazard advisory message is dispatched to agencies that transit and
       fly transition at Travis AFB.
       3.4.11. In conjunction with Civil Engineer and Airfield Management, seasonally inspect
       the "clear zone" areas off the approach end of runways 21L/3R and 21R/3L for grain type
       crops, vegetation, or industrial development that may attract wildlife. Maintain grass
       height on airdrome between a minimum of 7 to a maximum of 14 inches (18 to 36 cm) to
TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                               9


     reduce attractiveness to wildlife/birds. Grass should be cut before seed heads develop to
     avoid attracting grain-eating birds. If a contractor performs grass cutting, monitor
     performance to ensure compliance with this instruction. When necessary, eliminate
     foliage in drainage ditches. As a last resort, consult with the Environmental for the best
     course of action in dealing with a large vernal pool that is attracting waterfowl.
     3.4.12. Maintain a BASH information file containing applicable BASH directives and
     correspondence.
     3.4.13. Consult with the Travis AFB Natural Resource Manager prior to trapping and
     relocation of base wildlife, unless trapping is accomplished by the Falconer within
     guidelines listed in the current depredation permit. The Wildlife Control Contractor will
     exercise his/her best judgment on when trapping wildlife is appropriate.
     3.4.14. Obtain Depredation permit from the Fish and Wildlife Service, 2800 Cottage
     Way, Suite W2606 Sacramento California 95825-1846911.
     3.4.15. Provide the Wildlife Control Contractor with an authorization letter to transport
     weapons and ammunition on Travis AFB for depredation purposes.
     3.4.16. Provide 60 SFS with a letter that states the weapons qualifications of the wildlife
     control contract personnel.
  3.5. Wildlife Control Contractor (Falconer).
     3.5.1. Patrol Travis AFB airfield areas.
     3.5.2. Notify tower of hazardous bird activity presence on or around airfield.
     3.5.3. Conduct dispersal operations.
     3.5.4. Conduct depredation.
     3.5.5. Coordinate with Pest Management Shop for rodent and insect control.
     3.5.6. Consult with the Travis AFB Natural Resource Manager prior to trapping and
     relocation of base wildlife, unless trapping is accomplished within guidelines listed in the
     current depredation permit.
  3.6. Command Post.
     3.6.1. Disapprove any request from transient crews to train in the local area if Phase II
     restrictions are in effect. Ensure all aircraft, both local and transient, comply with flight
     restrictions listed in paragraph 2.7. of this instruction.
     3.6.2. Coordinate aircraft departure requests during BWC MODERATE with 60 OG/CC.
     3.6.3. Coordinate delays, diversions, and release of AMC controlled aircraft based on
     BWC. Issue bird watch advisories to all aircraft arriving and departing Travis AFB.
     Notify TACC when wildlife conditions could result in possible aircraft diversions or
     delays.
     3.6.4. Assign X113 delay code for all AMC missions delayed due to wildlife hazard
     conditions.
     3.6.5. When requested, brief crews (including transients) on local Travis wildlife
     avoidance procedures. Broadcast the current BWC, if MODERATE or SEVERE, and
10                                               TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012


     advise crews of the Phase II BASH windows. In addition, Command Post will
     immediately notify the 60 Operations Group Commander any time the BWC increases to
     MODERATE or SEVERE or is downgraded. Command Post will broadcast the change
     in BWC to all aircraft on frequency. Ensure transient aircraft involved in a wildlife strike
     fill out an AF Form 853 and forward it to Wing Safety.
  3.7. Air Traffic Control.
     3.7.1. Monitor level of bird activity using tower observation, aircrew reports, and
     wildlife control contractor reports. Notify Airfield Management whenever wildlife
     activity on the airfield requires action from a wildlife control team.
     3.7.2. Tower supervisors can raise the BWC based on wildlife activity. The tower
     supervisor can forward downgrade requests of the BWC to the Airfield Manger if visual
     observation of bird activity reveals activity is not a probable hazard to flying safety.
     After a reported bird strike, the BWC may be raised to MODERATE or SEVERE as
     necessary. At a minimum, the tower supervisor will ensure a reassessment of the BWC
     occurs. Traffic conditions permitting, RAPCON will use the northern radar traffic
     pattern or a minimum radar traffic pattern altitude of 3,000 feet to the south when a bird
     hazard exists at low altitude over the wetlands south of the runways.
     3.7.3. Tower will notify Airfield Management and RAPCON when the BWC is changed.
     Airfield Management will notify Command Post and on-duty weather personnel.
     3.7.4. During the Phase II BASH windows, tower will broadcast the BWC on the
     Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS). The BWC shall be included on the
     ATIS when the BWC is MODERATE or SEVERE, regardless of Phase I or II. When the
     BWC is rapidly changing, tower will include the following statement on the ATIS: “Due
     to rapidly changing bird watch conditions contact Travis Tower or Travis Approach for
     current bird watch condition.”
     3.7.5. Coordinate activities with bird dispersal units.
  3.8. Airfield Management.
     3.8.1. Coordinate on-base wildlife controls including harassment, grounds maintenance,
     and depredation.
     3.8.2. Coordinate with the Wildlife Control Contractor (Falconer) for assistance in
     wildlife dispersal.
     3.8.3. Notify tower of hazardous wildlife/bird activity on or around airfield.
     3.8.4. Notify Command Post of BWC.
     3.8.5. Report known wildlife strikes to Wing Safety.
     3.8.6. Notify the Travis AFB Natural Resource Manager of the need to trap and relocate
     base wildlife. Retrieve or contact Pest Management Shop to retrieve carcasses on
     taxiways and runways.
     3.8.7. Maintain any bio-acoustic and pyrotechnic equipment necessary for bird control.
     Personnel assigned will maintain proficiency on above devices. Only stock-listed, USAF
     approved munitions will be procured or utilized on the airfield. Munitions must be
TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                              11


     ordered through 60th Maintenance Squadron Munitions Flight. Munitions will be stored
     in approved areas in quantities not to exceed a projected 60-day supply IAW Wing
     Weapons Safety Guidance. Munitions will be provided to contract personnel of the
     World Bird Sanctuary (falconer) on demand while their contract is in force. An AF Form
     2047, Explosive Facility License will be current and posted on the storage locker door or
     side panel.
     3.8.8. Airfield Management will be responsible for notifying all aircrews (military and
     civilian) of the BWC and BASH window when the aircrews file their flight plan. ATIS
     will broadcast the effective times of the Phase II BASH windows. Additionally, ATIS
     will broadcast the current BWC when the condition is MODERATE or SEVERE, when
     practical.
  3.9. Civil Engineer Squadron.
     3.9.1. Monitor contractor compliance with the grass management program.
     3.9.2. Coordinate depredation. Depredation will be used as a last resort only when there
     is grave threat to people or aircraft. Prior coordination is not necessary in the event of an
     emergency. The Migratory Birds Treaty Act (MBTA) defines guidelines to be followed
     when executing the depredation permit. Environmental should be notified in a timely
     manner after depredation occurs.
     3.9.3. Conduct pest management including insect and rodent control.
     3.9.4. Plan, Program, Design and Execute Work Orders submitted to correct
     environmental conditions that increase BASH potential.
     3.9.5. Comply with INRMP.
  3.10. Current Operations.
     3.10.1. Schedule takeoffs/arrivals to comply with BASH Phase II restrictions.
     3.10.2. Coordinate with TACC to schedule mission departures to comply with BASH
     Phase II restrictions to the maximum extent possible.
     3.10.3. Enter BASH Phase I and Phase II start/end dates (normally 1 September and 30
     April) into the Global Decision Support System (GDSS) Airfield Data Base (AFD) as a
     planning remark in the Temporary Restrictions/Planning Remarks section.
     3.10.4. Enter sunrise, sunset, and BASH windows on the daily schedule.
  3.11. Maintenance Group.
     3.11.1. Will establish procedures for responding when an aircraft is known or discovered
     to have a bird strike. As a minimum:
         3.11.1.1. Determine inspection requirements for all engine inlets/exhaust, engine fan
         blades, cooling air inlets, pitot/static inlets, and flight controls.
         3.11.1.2. Collect all bird remains found to include whole birds, beak, feet, feathers,
         and blood smear remains. Bag remains and provide to Wing Flight Safety through
         established procedures.
12                                               TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012


         3.11.1.3. When Maintenance discovers a bird strike, complete as much of the AF
         Form 853, Bird Strike Report and local QRC as soon as possible and forward to Wing
         Flight Safety.
         3.11.1.4. If considering impounding an aircraft for bird strike damage for
         investigation, notify Command Post and Wing Safety immediately.
  3.12. Public Affairs.
     3.12.1. Maximize public awareness and understanding of the impact wildlife has on safe
     flying operations.
     3.12.2. Inform internal and external audiences of the reason for, and ethical means of,
     controlling wildlife populations on Travis AFB.
     3.12.3. Act as the approving official for information requests/news releases regarding the
     wildlife control program.
  3.13. Operations Group Standardization/Evaluation.
     3.13.1. Establish procedures for aircrew following a known or suspected bird/wildlife
     strike. The procedures should direct crews to land and conduct a complete inspection of
     the aircraft. As a minimum, all engine inlets, engine fan blades, cooling air inlets,
     pitot/static inlets, and flight controls will be inspected for bird strike damage, regardless
     of the location of the known bird strike. Guidelines will also require aircrews to
     complete an AF Form 853, and AMC Form 97, AMC In-Flight Occurrence Worksheet.
     3.13.2. Disseminate BASH procedures for aircrew with the respective weapons systems
     regulations (TAFB Sup 1) and FCIFs/FCBs. The Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard
     will be continually evaluated and appropriate risk-reducing changes for aircrew flight
     operations will be disseminated via FCIF directives.
  3.14. Operations Group Tactics and Training.
     3.14.1. Assess all low altitude tactical and VFR training areas routes using AHAS and
     Bird Avoidance Models (BAM) and ensure flying operations follow restrictions (altitude
     and airspeed) outlined by AHAS, BAM, and Phase II restrictions.
  3.15. Weather.
     3.15.1. Provide weather observations and forecasts, as requested, to organizations
     evaluating the BWC. Include sunrise and sunset times in aircrew briefings during Phase
     II.
  3.16. Security Forces Squadron.
     3.16.1. Ensure Weapons Qualification Training is conducted and current for
     military/DOD civilian personnel. Provide training to Safety and Airfield Management to
     maintain currency in use of the shotgun, in accordance with AFMAN 31-229, USAF
     Weapons Handling Manual and AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force
     Personnel. 60 SFS will only certify qualified Airfield Management or Safety Office
     personnel. Authorized Wildlife Control Contractors will have a signed letter from Wing
     safety to SFS stating current qualifications.
TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                            13



4. Reports and Forms.
   4.1. All wildlife strikes (damaging and non-damaging) will be reported to Wing Flight
   Safety on an AF Form 853.
   4.2. Wildlife strikes resulting in damage greater than $20,000 will be reported IAW AFI 91-
   204, Safety Investigations and Reports and AFMAN 91-223, Aviation Safety Investigations
   and Reports.
   4.3. Wildlife strikes will be entered into the Air Force Safety Automated System (AFSAS)
   as they occur.
   4.4. Wing Safety will forward wildlife remains to the Smithsonian Institution IAW AFMAN
   91-223.
   4.5. Bird Data information on bird strikes is gathered empirically by the Air Force BASH
   team (HQ AFSC/SEFW), Travis AFB agencies, and the California Division of Fish and
   Wildlife. Examples include:
      4.5.1. Peak concentration by species of bird, time of day, and location.
      4.5.2. Bird harassment, depredation, ground maintenance, and habitat management.
      4.5.3. Bird aircraft strike incidents at Travis AFB.
5. Local Transition Hazards.
   5.1. The purpose of this section is to highlight both general and specific wildlife hazard
   information for local transition airfields.
   5.2. The Sacramento area is situated on the Pacific Flyway and is in a wintering area for a
   very large population of ducks and significant populations of geese and swans. Bird strikes
   with waterfowl are a serious problem. Migratory and diurnal flight activities by the birds
   create a substantial risk to flight operations. Ducks begin their daily flights just before
   sunrise, continuing for up to two hours after sunrise. Morning duck movements begin east of
   Travis AFB, with birds flying out of the Yolo Bypass, Hastings Slough, and from refuges
   north of Sacramento, California. Flocks flying east out of the Suisun Marsh and Nurse,
   Denverton, and Hill Sloughs soon join these westerly flights. Low clouds, haze or fog delays
   the departure of the birds, causing them to fly later in the day. Most late afternoon flights
   occur at sunset, lasting up to an hour.
   5.3. Before initial approach, aircraft commanders will check on the current wildlife hazard
   conditions. If information is not available (especially during Phase II), pilot discretion
   should be used before conducting the approach at an airfield. Airfields listed below may be
   in Phase II at the same period as Travis, and Operational Phase II restrictions would then
   apply.
   5.4. Beale AFB. During the Phase II period, a significant wildlife hazard exists. Large rice
   fields are located on the approach end of runway 33, which provided winter nesting areas for
   waterfowl (swans, raptors). Local hunting clubs raise a large population of pheasant in the
   same area. The airfield area has a large number of meadowlarks and horn larks during the
   Phase II period. The base also has a significant coyote population that can pose a year round
 14                                               TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012


   hazard to operations. The USDA-Wildlife Services have employees working at Beale AFB
   to reduce the threats wildlife cause to aircraft operations. Contact base operations for current
   conditions.
   5.5. Sacramento International Airport. Extensive agricultural areas (rice and corn) and brush
   lands that are highly attractive to many species surround the airfield. The airfield is also
   surrounded by waterways, including the Yolo Bypass, Tule Canal, Sacramento River, the
   irrigation canal maze, and Teal Bend Golf Course. Civilian airports do not identify daily
   "Bird Watch Conditions". However, the FAA provides information about civilian airports in
   the quarterly publication of the Airport/Facility Directory-Southwest US. Pilots should
   consult NOTAMS and the control tower for the latest wildlife information. The USDA-
   Wildlife Services have employees working at Sacramento International Airport to reduce the
   threats wildlife cause to aircraft operations.
   5.6. Stockton Airport. The USDA has not surveyed this airfield recently but it does have a
   landfill approximately two miles south of runway 29. The landfill turns the soil to reduce
   bird activity but caution should be used to avoid this area. In addition, wetlands are located
   south of the field. Tower may be contacted for current wildlife activity.
6. Aero Club Operations.
   6.1. The purpose of this section is to address the Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazards
   affecting the Travis Aero Club.
   6.2. The Travis Aero Club operates from a civilian airfield at Rio Vista Municipal Airport,
   CA. Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazards exist to a much lesser degree for Aero Club
   aircraft due to their lower airspeeds, reciprocating engines, and mission operations.
   Approximately 80% of operations are conducted under VFR (1500-foot ceiling and 3 mile
   visibility) conditions. IFR departures and arrivals are conducted using a VOR or GPS
   approach.
   6.3. A significant bird hazard exists at Rio Vista Municipal Airport and bird strikes with
   waterfowl are highly probable. The airport is bordered by the Sacramento River to the east
   and several canals surrounding the airport to the north, east and south. The canals cross the
   approach/departure path within close proximity of both runways. The strike problem is
   further complicated by a large number of inland waterways to the east and southeast of the
   Sacramento River. Many farmers in this same region flood fields, which attract waterfowl
   from October through March and lease land to duck hunters.
   6.4. Rio Vista Airport is situated on the Pacific flyway and is within close proximity to
   wintering areas for very large populations of ducks and significant populations of geese.
   Migratory and diurnal flight activities by birds create a substantial risk to flight operations.
   6.5. Travis Aero Club pilots will be responsible for all wildlife hazard avoidance. Standard
   Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Hazard (BASH) procedures are not applicable at Rio Vista Municipal
   Airport since it is under FAA and local municipal authority. Aero Club pilots are reminded
   as a rule, significant bird activity can be expected from one hour before and after
   sunrise/sunset. Flight operations during this time period should be avoided, especially during
   the spring and fall migrations.
TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012                                                             15


  6.6. Prior to departure, Travis Aero Club pilots should check the Avian Hazard Advisory
  System (AHAS) web page at: http://www.usahas.com to determine bird activity around
  military fields or training routes along their expected route of flight. Pilots should also
  contact airfield management at departure and destination airfields to assess actual bird
  activity.
  6.7. Prior to departure, Travis Aero Club pilots will observe runway/airfield for wildlife
  activity which may pose a threat during takeoff or departure. Report wildlife activity to Aero
  Club Management and request assistance with wildlife dispersal if needed using the Unicom
  frequency. Use the following standard AMC Bird Watch Conditions (BWC) as a guide to
  determine the current bird threat. Conditions are:
     6.7.1. LOW: Normal wildlife activity (fewer than 5 large birds [waterfowl, raptors,
     gulls, etc.] or 15 small birds [terns, swallows, etc.]) on or above the airfield with a low
     probability of hazard.
     6.7.2. MODERATE: Increased wildlife population (5 to 15 large birds or 15 to 30 small
     birds) in locations that represent an increased potential for a strike.
     6.7.3. SEVERE: High wildlife population (15 large birds or 30 small birds) on or
     immediately above the active runway or other specific locations (taxiways, in-field areas,
     and departure or arrival routes) that represents a high potential for a strike. Keep in mind
     a single bird in a critical location may elevate the BWC to SEVERE.
  6.8. Travis Aero Club management will notify inbound aircraft of known significant wildlife
  activity on or near the airfield posing a threat to arriving aircraft using the UNICOM
  frequency.
  6.9. All damaging and non-damaging wildlife strikes will be reported to 60 AMW Flight
  Safety on an AF Form 853 and will include remains if available.
  6.10. On occasion Travis Aero Club aircraft may receive approval to conduct transition
  training or full stop landings at Travis AFB. Aero Club aircraft will follow procedures and
  operating restrictions contained within this instruction when operating at Travis AFB.




                                           DWIGHT C. SONES, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 60 AMW (AMC)
 16                                             TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 13-213, Airfield Management, 01 June 2011
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 15 March 2005
AFI 32-1053, Pest Management Program, 23 June 2009
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, 01 November 2004
AFI 91-202, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 05 August 2011
AFI 91-202 AMC Sup 1, The US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, 21 May 2012
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFI 91-212, Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard (BASH), Management Techniques, 01February 2004
AFMAN 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Manual, 24 May 2004
AFMAN 91-223, Aviation Safety Investigations and Reports, 06 July 2004
UFC 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design, 17 November 2008
Prescribed Forms: None
Adopted Forms: AMC Form 97, AMC In-Flight Occurrence Worksheet; AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; AF Form 853, Bird Strike Report, AF Form 2047,
Explosive Facility License.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFM—Air Force Manual
AGL—Above Ground Level
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AHAS—Avian Hazard Advisory System
ASR—Airfield Surveillance Radar
ATC—Air Traffic Control
ATIS—Airport Terminal Information System
BAM—Bird Avoidance Model
BASH—Bird Aircraft Strike Hazard
BHWG—Bird Hazard Working Group
BWC—Bird Watch Condition
CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
TRAVISAFBI91-212 13 NOVEMBER 2012              17


DER—Departure End of Runway
EPA—Environmental Protection Agency
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
IAW—In Accordance With
IMC—Instrument Meteorological Conditions
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RAPCON—Radar Approach Control
AFSAS—Air Force Safety Automated System
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
TACC—Tanker Airlift Control Center
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
USDA—United States Department of Agriculture
VMC—Visual Meteorological Conditions
