BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                  INSTRUCTION 32-2001

                                                                           28 DECEMBER 2012

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                        INSTALLATION FIRE PREVENTION
                                                                            PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no restrictions on the release of this publication.


OPR: 60 CES/CEF                                                          Certified by: 60 CES/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Daniel A. Guinan)
Supersedes:    TRAVISAFBI32-105,                                                          Pages: 9
               5 August 2005


This instruction implements Department of Defense Instruction 6055.06, DoD Fire and
Emergency Services Program, and Air Force Policy Directive 32-20, Fire Emergency Services.
It establishes specific lines of authority for Travis Air Force Base and sets policy and procedures
to meet the objectives of Air Force Instruction 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program. It
applies to all military and civilian personnel assigned, attached to, or quartered at Travis AFB
(including contractors, residents and concessionaires). Through the guidance contained herein,
fire prevention can eliminate or minimize needless waste of human lives or property, thus
allowing continuation of the assigned mission.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                TRAVISAFBI32-2001 28 DECEMBER 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised. Major changes include: It incorporates changes
to Department of Defense (DoD) and Air Force (AF) publications. The updated test is intended
to eliminate redundancy, incorporate national consensus standards, and set the framework for fire
prevention measures on Travis Air Force Base.
1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. Installation Commander. The installation commander is responsible for the fire safety
     of personnel and property under their control, provided for by the Fire and Emergency
     Services (FES) programs contained in this instruction. This responsibility is discharged
     through the Fire Marshal and executed by the Fire Chief. The installation commander
     reviews and approves Operational Risk Management (ORM) plans that address facility fire
     safety and reductions in FES capability. The Fire Marshal and Fire Chief provide periodic
     updates to keep the commander aware of FES capability and risk.
     1.2. Fire Marshal. The Civil Engineer (CE) Squadron Commander or the Base Civil
     Engineer (BCE) is the Fire Marshal. The Fire Marshal is responsible to the Installation
     Commander for oversight of FES programs and provides the Fire Chief the resources to
     execute the FES mission.
     1.3. Fire Chief. The Installation Fire Chief is the FES Flight Chief and is directly
     responsible to the Fire Marshal for establishing, executing and maintaining FES programs.
     1.4. FES Fire Prevention. The Fire Prevention Section is the representative office that
     implements and manages the fire prevention program objectives. The Fire Prevention
     Section represents the Fire Chief on all matters relating to life safety and code enforcement
     with delegated authority to act on his/her behalf.
2. Mission and Standards.
     2.1. Fire Prevention Mission. Fire Prevention is the primary mission of the FES flight.
     2.2. Fire Prevention Objectives. The objective of the Fire Prevention Program is to
     prevent fires. This objective is accomplished through four program elements: FES facility
     plan reviews, fire prevention inspections, code enforcement and fire safety education.
     2.3. Fire Prevention Program Elements.
        2.3.1. FES Facility Plan Reviews. The Fire Chief will provide design review comments
        to the CEP Flight Chief for incorporation into facility design and modification projects.
        The Fire Prevention Section will review all plans with special attention to fire department
        personnel and vehicle access and verification of Fire Protection Engineer coordination as
        applicable.
        2.3.2. Fire Prevention Inspections. Fire prevention inspections are conducted at least
        annually for all facilities. Privatized Family housing is excluded. The Fire Chief may
        institute more frequent inspections to include unannounced and after hours inspections.
        2.3.3. Code Enforcement. Code enforcement includes authority delegated by the
        installation commander to the Fire Chief to affect actions necessary to correct fire
        hazards and deficiencies. The using organization’s commander is responsible for ORMs
TRAVISAFBI32-2001 28 DECEMBER 2012                                                               3


      to mitigate fire hazards and deficiencies for their area of responsibility. The Fire Chief is
      responsible to track mitigation actions until deficiency is corrected or waived.
      2.3.4. Fire Safety Education. Fire safety education is an essential part of workplace
      safety training, and is promoted during fire inspections and other personal contacts. It
      may be tailored for specific audiences and purposes, such as fire extinguisher training or
      public assembly employee training. Fire safety education objectives are to equip
      personnel with the information needed to prevent fires, protect themselves and intervene
      early when fire occurs.
   2.4. Scope of Additional Services. The Fire Prevention Section provides additional
   services to ensure program objectives are met. These services include approval for all
   operations on the installation that require independent, unsecured, or sustained ignition
   sources. The Fire Prevention Section provides interpretation services on codes and standards
   concerning fire and life safety topics.
      2.4.1. The Fire Prevention Section will provide technical assistance to Commanders and
      Facility Managers concerning extinguisher selection and placement within a facility. It is
      the responsibility of the owning unit to purchase and maintain fire extinguishers to
      standards set forth in NFPA 10, Portable Fire Extinguishers.
   2.5. Standards and Regulatory Guidance. National Fire Protection Agency (NFPA)
   standards and recommended practices affecting FES Fire Prevention are adopted either as
   written or as implemented with specific Technical Implementation Guides (TIG). Fire
   protection requirements are contained in Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-600-01, Fire
   Protection Engineering for Facilities and Engineering Technical Letters (ETL).
3. Program Elements.
   3.1. FES Plans Review
      3.1.1. The Fire Prevention Section provides fire prevention approval and consultation
      services for new construction, facility modification, and self-help projects. The primary
      role of the FES Plans Review is to ensure emergency response procedures are not limited
      or altered by construction or engineering projects, and to ensure the presence of a Fire
      Protection Engineer certification when applicable.
      3.1.2. The Fire Prevention Section provides review and approval services through the CE
      Tools portal and Civil Engineering Work Request Review Board. The Fire Prevention
      Section will contact the appropriate point of contact (POC) if a project alters the
      emergency response procedures, or causes a change in applied fire prevention codes.
      3.1.3. All facilities and structures are engineered with fire protection criteria in mind.
      Prior to new construction of any facility, a Fire Protection Engineer and Fire Prevention
      Inspector will review drawings and specification s to ensure life safety considerations and
      fire protection features are incorporated.
   3.2. Fire Prevention Inspections
      3.2.1. The Fire Prevention Section performs facility inspections and advises unit
      commanders, facility managers, and supervisors of hazards and fire safety deficiencies in
      their facilities. The responsibility for correcting indentified hazards or deficiencies rests
      with the unit commander.
4                                                TRAVISAFBI32-2001 28 DECEMBER 2012


       3.2.2. The Fire Prevention Section utilizes local forms and AF Form 218 to document
       completion of inspections.
       3.2.3. There are instances where multiple agencies share office space within a facility.
       In these instances, the identified Facility Manager will assist the Fire Prevention Section
       with scheduling inspections, and disseminating to responsible agencies fire safety
       deficiencies for correction.
       3.2.4. FES utilizes the fire safety discrepancy (FSD) program, and ensures notification
       and tracking of each identified FSD corresponds with AFI 32-10141, Fire Safety
       Deficiency Program.
       3.2.5. Any FSD will be documented on AF Form 1487, and presented to the appropriate
       Commander and Facility Manger for correction. A deadline of 30 days from date of issue
       will be established for correction or presentation of an acceptable plan of action.
    3.3. Code Enforcement
       3.3.1. The Fire Emergency Services Flight is directed in accordance with AFI 32-2001,
       Fire Emergency Services Program with authority derived from the Installation
       Commander, 60 AMW/CC, to implement and enforce fire prevention policy.
       3.3.2. Upgrades in infrastructure, new operations, or changes to interior configurations
       may change the applied life safety standard by changing the “occupancy type” as defined
       in NFPA 101, Life Safety Code. The 60 CES/CEF will assist Facility Managers and
       Commanders in determining new requirements and restrictions under newly applied
       codes as occupancy loads, fire suppression requirements, electrical or explosive standards
       may require stricter guidance.
       3.3.3. The Fire Prevention Section utilizes Air Force Instructions (AFIs), National Fire
       Protection Agency (NFPA) standards, Uniform Facility Code (UFCs), and all other
       applicable government or departmental guidance during inspections, site visits, or
       customer inquiries.
       3.3.4. The Fire Prevention Section will utilize established regulations and forms to assist
       Facility Mangers and Commanders in developing the appropriate corrective action plans
       in the event a fire safety deficiency is assigned to a facility.
       3.3.5. The Fire Emergency Services Flight, 60 CES/CEF, has the authority to halt any
       action or condition that is determined hazardous to life and property, or that poses an
       unnecessary risk of fire. (Examples of this include unsafe practices by personnel
       concerning operations that involve an ignition source, unsafe practices involving
       confined spaces, unsafe storage practices, improper use of facilities, occupant overload
       situations, etc.)
          3.3.5.1. The Travis AFB Safety Office will be notified anytime an operation or
          condition is determined unsafe and declared terminated by 60 CES/CEF.
          3.3.5.2. The 60 CES/CEF will work with the 60 AMW/SE to resolve the situation,
          develop potential alternative solutions, and return operations to normal.
       3.3.6. The 60 CES/CEF will evaluate waivers on a case-by-case basis. The 60 CES/CEF
       will not waive any condition that violates NFPA 101, Life Safety Code.
TRAVISAFBI32-2001 28 DECEMBER 2012                                                             5


      3.3.7. The 60 CES/CEF employs a Board of Appeals as listed below. All disputed fire
      discrepancies must be submitted in writing or electronic correspondence to the issuing
      authority with intent to appeal. Once an appeals request is received the issuing authority
      will route the dispute to the next highest appellate authority for processing. Final
      appellate authority rests with the 60 AMW/CC.
          3.3.7.1. Issuing Fire Inspector.
          3.3.7.2. Assistant Chief of Prevention (60 CES/CEFT).
          3.3.7.3. Fire Chief (60 CES/CEF).
          3.3.7.4. Base Fire Marshall (60 CES/CC).
          3.3.7.5. Installation Commander (60 AMW/CC).
   3.4. Fire Safety Education.
      3.4.1. The Fire Prevention Division provides briefings and training to the following
      audiences.
          3.4.1.1. First Term Airmen’s Council.
          3.4.1.2. Right Start/Newcomer’s Briefing.
          3.4.1.3. Family Day Care Provider Program.
          3.4.1.4. Fire Prevention Week.
      3.4.2. The Fire Prevention Division will coordinate all emergency evacuation training
      (fire drills) with the appropriate agency given the required frequency.
          3.4.2.1. Facility Managers and Commanders are encouraged to exercise the readiness
          of their personnel, and do not require coordination with 60 CES/CEF to do so. The
          Fire Prevention Division can assist, if requested and if personnel are available.
      3.4.3. The Fire Prevention Division is available to present fire safety specific briefings,
      training, or demonstrations not listed above upon request.
      3.4.4. The 60 CES/CEF recognizes the fire extinguisher training located on the
      Advanced Distributed Learning Service (ADLS) as a sufficient platform for initial and
      reoccurring training. The computer based training (CBT) program is named Fire
      Extinguisher Safety, and is located under the miscellaneous section of the course list.
4. Travis Air Force Base Specific Guidance.
   4.1. Fire Reporting Procedures. All fires must be reported to the fire department
   regardless of size to include those already extinguished. Contact numbers for the Fire
   Department are:
             9-1-1 - All government and on base phone lines
             (707) 424-4911 - All private residential phone lines to include cell phones
      4.1.1. Dialing “9-1-1” from a cell phone or non-government phone while on Travis Air
      Force will be received by the Solano County Emergency Dispatch Center. Personnel
      who report emergencies to the Solano County Emergency Dispatch Center will
6                                                 TRAVISAFBI32-2001 28 DECEMBER 2012


       experience a delay as the emergency will be routed to the Travis Air Force Base
       Emergency Communication Center for processing and response.
       4.1.2. Personnel reporting an emergency should provide the following information:
       name, call back number, location, and nature of the emergency. Personnel must remain
       on the line until directed by the emergency operator to end the call.
    4.2. Prohibited Operations. The authority having jurisdiction has determined that the
    following operations are prohibited within the confines of Travis Air Force Base. Each
    operation has been determined to present a particularly high risk of fire, injury, or death and
    therefore cannot be allowed to take place.
       4.2.1. Operations that impede or degrade installed fire detection or suppression systems
       are prohibited. Formal coordination with 60 CES/CEF is required for any operation that
       affects the normal operation of these systems.
       4.2.2. Fireworks are prohibited on Travis Air Force Base.
       4.2.3. Tampering with or impeding the operation of installation fire hydrants is
       prohibited without consent from the 60 CES/CEF. Vehicles are not to park closer than
       15-feet from hydrants, post indicator valves, or fire department sprinkler connections.
       4.2.4. Operations or parking configurations that block designated emergency “fire lanes”
       is prohibited without coordination with the 60 CES/CEF.
       4.2.5. Tampering with or disabling installed fire detection or fire suppression system
       components is strictly prohibited.
       4.2.6. Smoking or the use of any ignition source within 50-feet of hangars, aircraft,
       aircraft parking areas, warehouses, repair and loading docks, paint shops, petroleum oil
       lubricants, vehicle maintenance shops, gasoline dispensing operations, bulk oxygen
       storage facilities, flammable liquid or gas handling storage areas, or munitions storage
       areas is prohibited.
       4.2.7. Open fires or burning operations are prohibited unless coordinated through the 60
       CES/CEF.
       4.2.8. The burning of candles, incense, potpourri pots, and similar open-flame devices is
       prohibited except in religious facilities or base privatized housing.
       4.2.9. The use of “live” Christmas trees is prohibited except in base family housing.
       4.2.10. Storage within mechanical, electrical, and boiler rooms is prohibited.
    4.3. Operations that require 60 CES/CEF coordination. The Authority having
    jurisdiction has determined the following operations to present a potential hazard of
    accidental ignition or pose a threat of degradation to intended emergency response operations
    and require coordination with the 60 CES/CEF prior to engagement.
       4.3.1. Welding, cutting, brazing, soldering, or any other industrial operation that requires
       the use of an open flame must be coordinated and approved by the 60 CES/CEF prior to
       engagement.
TRAVISAFBI32-2001 28 DECEMBER 2012                                                            7


     4.3.2. The storage of flammable or combustible materials must be consistent with AFI
     91-203, and when the quantities of storage lockers exceed two they must be coordinated
     and approved by the 60 CES/CEF.
     4.3.3. The storage of explosive materials must be coordinated and approved by the 60
     CES/CEF
     4.3.4. The use of outdoor cooking equipment that utilizes an unsecured ignition source
     (i.e.; grill, sterno fuel, charcoal, etc.) must be coordinated through the 60 CES/CEF
     except in base family housing, fixed barbeque facilities at parks or dormitories, or at the
     FamCamp.
  4.4. Seasonal Considerations. Travis Air Force Base’s location and environmental
  conditions require that certain operations require a higher level of education.
     4.4.1. Travis AFB poses a seasonal threat of wildland, brush, or grass fire. Personnel are
     encouraged to remain mindful of unsecured ignition sources. The disposal of improperly
     extinguished smoking material, charcoal briquettes, or cooking grease for example can
     inadvertently start a fire.
  4.5. Facility Manager, Contractor, and Military Family Housing Fire Prevention
  Handbooks. The 60 CES/CEF has developed fire prevention specific handbooks for Facility
  Managers, contractors operating within the jurisdiction of Travis AFB, and residents of
  privatized family housing. These handbooks serve as an extension of this regulation, and
  provide a “living” and flexible platform for the 60 CES/CEF to adjust fire prevention
  measures and public education delivery to conform to updated requirements or standards.
  These handbooks are available upon distribution or request through the Fire Prevention
  Section.




                                          DWIGHT C. SONES, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 60th Air Mobility Wing
 8                                               TRAVISAFBI32-2001 28 DECEMBER 2012


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, 9 September 2008
AFI 32-10141, Planning and Programming Fire Safety Deficiency Correction Project, 3 March
2011
AFI 34-276, Family Child Care Programs, 2 November 1999
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
AFJMAN 23-210, Joint Service Manual (JSM) for Storage and Materials Handling, 12 April 1994
AFPD 32-20, Fire Protection, 21 June 2012
NFPA 1, Fire Code Handbook, 2012 edition
NFPA 13, Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems, 2010 edition
NFPA 51B, Standard for Fire Prevention in Use of Cutting and Welding Processes, 2009 edition
NFPA 70, National Electrical Code, 2010 edition
NFPA 72, National Fire Alarm Code, 2010 edition
NFPA 96, Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking
Operations, 2011 edition
NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, 2012 edition
T.O. 00-125-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding, 15 July 2002
Unified Facilities Criteria 3-600-01, Design: Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities, 14 July
2009
Unified Facilities Criteria 3-600-02, Operations and Maintenance: Inspection, Testing, and
Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems, 1 January 2001
Adopted Forms The following is a list of forms used to implement and enforce the Installation
Fire Prevention Program. Contact the Fire Prevention Office for assistance in acquiring or
utilizing the below forms.
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting, and Brazing Permit
AF 218, Facility Fire Prevention and Protection Record
AF 1024, Confined Spaces Entry Field Permit
AF 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report
AF 1028, Facility Pre-Fire Plan
AF 2047, Explosives Facility License
Travis AFB Fire Inspection Checklist (Local) Travis AFB Fire Drill Checklist (Local)
TRAVISAFBI32-2001 28 DECEMBER 2012       9


Prescribed Forms
There are no Prescribed Forms.

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AHJ—Authority Having Jurisdiction
BCE—Base Civil Engineer (Fire Marshal)
CES—-Civil Engineer Squadron
FES—Fire Emergency Services
NFPA—National Fire Protection Agency
UFC—-Unified Facilities Criteria
UL—-Underwriters Laboratories
