BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                 INSTRUCTION 91-104


                                                                             28 JANUARY 2009

                                                                                           Safety

                                            EXPLOSIVE, FIREARMS AND HAZARDOUS
                                        MATERIALS (HM) TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 60 AMW/SEW                          Certified by: 60 AMW/SE (Lt Col Jeffrey Pierce)
Supersedes: TRAVISAFBI91-104, 15 April 2003                                   Pages: 23

This instruction implements AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs. It establishes the Explosives,
Firearms, and Hazardous Materials (HM) Transportation Safety Programs for Travis Air Force
Base in accordance with AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards. It applies to all 60th Air
Mobility Wing, tenant units, reserve activities, and personnel assigned or attached to Travis
AFB.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes include
updates; Attachments 2 through 6, all pertaining to Net Explosive Weight (NEW) limits for
explosive sited locations and a map outlining primary and alternate explosive routes; changed
paragraph 6 makes 60 AMW/SE responsible for submitting explosive site plans, coordinate
construction and land use within explosive clear zones to; substantially revised two Chapters, 15
(On-Base Explosive Movements) and 20 (Explosive Facility License). Typographical and
formatting errors were corrected throughout this document.

1. Explosives, Firearms and Hazardous Materials (HM) Transportation Safety Programs.
2                                                TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009

1.1. These programs involve all explosives and other HM regulated by public law and the
Department of Defense (DoD), firearms used, handled, stored, and maintained on Travis AFB.
Implementation of effective safety programs must be equally shared by the host and tenant units
and supported by all levels of management supervision and operations. Overall objective of the
programs is to prevent and/or minimize property damage, injury, and loss of life. The cardinal
rule of Explosives Safety is: Expose the minimum amount of people to the minimum amount of
explosives for the minimum amount of time. Implementation of these programs will be
accomplished by:
1.1.1. Coordination between host and tenant representatives in explosives, firearms and HM
transportation operations.
1.1.2. Enforcement of and compliance with safety regulations, standards, and application of
safety engineering principles.
1.1.3. Recurring inspections of operations and facilities for identification and elimination of
hazards.
1.1.4. Investigating, analyzing, and reporting of accidents and incidents.
1.1.5. Use of technically qualified personnel and proper equipment operators.
1.1.6. Adequate training for personnel on a continuing basis.
1.1.7. Review of selected, potentially dangerous operations, by the Environmental Safety and
Occupational Heath Council (ESOHC).
1.1.8. Review and evaluation of reports on surveys and visits conducted by higher headquarters.
2. Accident Prevention and Control.
2.1. All organizational elements, including tenants, having a mission or participating functions
involving explosives, HM transportation and handling of firearms are responsible for execution
of effective accident prevention programs, and will:
2.1.1. Recognize, review, and enforce accident prevention and damage control techniques,
procedures, and requirements.
2.1.2. Coordinate all unusual/significant matters pertaining to explosives, HM transportation and
firearms operations with Weapons Safety (60 AMW/SEW).
2.1.3. Comply with AFMAN 24-204, Preparing Hazardous Material for Military Air
Shipments, AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force for Air Force Personnel and AFMAN 91-201
requirements.
2.1.4. Ensure operating instructions (OI) covering all explosives operations are maintained.
Locally developed instructions will contain information outlined in AFMAN 91-201, Paragraph
2.4, and will be coordinated with the 60 AMW/SEW and any other involved activity. Approval
of these instructions will be by the squadron commander. For those activities assigned to
headquarters squadrons, approval will be by the flight or division chief. Coordination/approval
of local written procedures will be accomplished using AF Form 673, Request to Issue
Publication or appropriate coordination documentation. Each locally issued publication will be
reviewed annually by the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) and 60 AMW/SEW. Reviews
will be documented.
2.1.5. Use personnel qualified through training and/or experience to ensure application of
accident prevention principles and safety standards.
2.1.6. Notify the Fire Alarm Control Center (60 CES/CEF) when explosives locations or fire
symbols/hazard markers change.
TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009                                                            3

2.1.7. Forward all requests for waivers, exemptions, and deviations from mandatory provisions
of AFMAN 91-201 to 60 AMW/SEW for review prior to submitting to the 60 AMW
Commander for signature and forwarding to HQ AMC for approval.
2.1.8. Request AF Form 2047, Explosives Facilities License for locations where explosives
operations are conducted. Exception: AF Form 2047 is not required for formally sited
explosives locations.
2.1.9. Ensure assigned vehicles and equipment are operated and serviced in compliance with
AFMAN 91-201, Paragraph 2.74 for on and off base transport of explosives.
2.1.10. Provide vehicle/equipment operators with regulatory information on hauling explosives
and hazardous materials.
2.1.11. Ensure munitions components or other items containing explosives or hazardous
material are not brought into or stored in an office, barracks, warehouse, hangar, or other
structure not specifically authorized or licensed for such storage.
3. Weapons Safety Manager (60 AMW/SEW).
3.1. Review and coordinate operating instructions for all explosives, HM transportation and
firearms operations conducted on Travis AFB, including tenant organizations.
3.1.1. Coordinate all joint OIs through appropriate tenant units’ safety office.
3.2. Perform spot inspections of activities and operations involving explosives, HM
transportation, and firearms to ensure compliance with listed safety directives. Submit pertinent
reports of unsatisfactory conditions noted and ensure corrective action or actions by activities
concerned.
3.3. Perform annual inspections of explosive storage locations for compliance with safety
criteria, prepare report to appropriate agencies, and ensure adequacy of corrective action.
3.4. Provide guidance/technical assistance to all organizations involved in explosives, HM
transportation, and firearms operations.
3.5. Review, coordinate, and recommend approval or disapproval to the 60 AMW Commander
on new site plans or modification of explosives facilities or facilities not involving explosives
which would be exposed to such hazards if not properly located.
3.6. Evaluate, review, and process requests for waivers, exemptions, and deviations to explosive
safety criteria and recommend approval or disapproval.
3.7. Investigate and ensure proper processing of accident/incident report and hazard reports
involving explosives.
3.8. Approve or disapprove requests for, and ensure compliance with, explosives facility
licensing (AF Form 2047) requirements.
3.9. Recommend approval or disapproval for deviation from mandatory quantity distance
criteria when required by emergency conditions or operational necessity.
3.10. Coordinate plans and policies involving explosive materials.
3.11. Serve on boards, committees, councils, and attend meetings/conferences when explosives,
HM transportation, and firearms safety are involved.
3.12. Review agreements between 60 Air Mobility Wing and other units for compliance with
explosives, HM transportation, and firearms safety directives.
3.13. Provide initial and annual explosives safety training to unit explosive safety
representatives.
4. Unit Weapons Safety Representatives.
4.1. Organizational commanders will appoint primary and alternate Additional Duty Weapons
Safety Representatives (ADWSR) in each activity involved in storing, maintaining, installing,
4                                                TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009

removing, or functioning of explosives within the unit. In some units, it may be desirable for the
commander to appoint squadron representatives to oversee the weapons safety program for all of
the unit's weapons safety related activities. Provide the name, office symbol, and telephone
number of appointed ADWSR to 60 AMW/SEW.
4.2. ADWSR are required to provide initial and reoccurring explosives safety training to
individuals within the unit who are involved in explosives operations. This training is in addition
to job proficiency training provided by the supervisor. Record such training on AF Forms 1098,
Special Task Certification and Recurring Training, AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health
Record, or a computer product that accurately reflects the training status.
4.3. All units which storing, maintaining, installing, removing, or functioning of explosives must
maintain a unit Weapon Safety continuity binder, organized as followed:
4.3.1. Tab a Appointment letter and ADWSR training
4.3.2. Tab b Copy of facility license (AMC Form 2047) and supporting documents
4.3.3. Tab c Applicable OI’s
4.3.4. Tab d Inspection results
4.3.5. Tab e Documented Spot inspections or reference to actual location
4.3.6. Tab f Explosive safety training or a reference to actual location
4.3.7. Tab g Miscellaneous Information (i.e.; Self Inspection Checklists, GBS trained
authorization)
4.4. ADWSR will accomplish a minimum of one spot inspection per month of their Weapon
Safety program and or facility. If munitions are stored in multiple locations, then perform one
spot inspection per area.
4.4.1. Minimum documentation will include; date, inspectors name, organization or activity
inspected, brief description of what was observed, if there was or no discrepancy, and status
(open or closed).
4.5. Ensure all unit OI pertaining to explosive, HM transportation and firearms operations are
coordinated through 60 AMW/SEW. Joint OIs must also be coordinated through all applicable
units to include parent Weapon Safety Offices.
4.6. ADWSR are required to ensure 60 AMW/SEW is aware of all locations within their units
that contain explosives.
5. Defense Re-utilization and Marketing Office (DRMO).
5.1. Receive, store, and dispose of munitions components, and packing materials certified as
properly inspected, processed, and suitable for sale to private and commercial purchasers.
5.2. Contact Munitions Management Element (60 EMS/MXMW) personnel to inspect the out
loading of any suspect scrap metal shipment to a civilian buyer, when required.
5.3. Comply with DOD guidance for disposition of scrap metal generated from expended
munitions.
5.4. Maintain a current listing of authorized munitions inspectors.
5.5. Maintain a current local operating instruction detailing correct turn-in procedures for
munitions residue and emergency actions in the event of a mishap.
6. 60th Civil Engineering Squadron (60 CES).
6.1. Ensure all construction, land use, or future planning that will occur within or near explosive
clear zones are coordinated with the 60 AMW/SEW.
6.2. Coordinate with 60 AMW/SEW to ensure existing and proposed explosives facility and
explosives safety quantity-distance clearance zones are shown on the base master plan,
information reflected is current.
TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009                                                             5

6.3. Provide inspection and testing of lightning protection and static ground systems, vegetation
control, and fire protection support for all units handling or storing explosives.
6.3.1. Maintain test and inspection records for a minimum of six inspection cycles for explosives
locations lightning protection and grounding systems. Submit a copy of test results to the facility
user.
6.4. Ensure that base maps and pre-fire plans show all current explosives storage areas or
locations and their applicable fire symbols or hazard markers are maintained at the Fire Alarm
Communications Center.
6.5. Ensure fire drills are conducted at least semi-annually at 60 EMS (A-Bunker) and 60 APS
(B-bunker) explosives storage areas. The drills will be coordinated with personnel occupying the
areas to ensure that they are all aware that only a drill is to be conducted.
6.6. Perform necessary maintenance on explosive facilities consistent with explosive safety
standards.
7. 60th Equipment Maintenance Squadron (60 EMS).
7.1. Coordinate with 60 AMW/SEW on all plans, unsatisfactory reports in accordance with
(IAW) T.O. 00 35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System, and programming
actions involving explosives.
7.2. Ensure information on restricted, suspended, and released lots of munitions is promptly
distributed to affected agencies.
7.3. Ensure all authorized munitions serviceability inspections and tests are performed IAW
appropriate 11-series technical orders for stocks in base storage, in the possession of activities
assigned, or attached to Travis AFB. In-transit munitions are excluded from this requirement.
7.4. Provide in-transit munitions storage support, when possible, during increased munitions
shipments which exceed 60 APS’s explosives storage capacity.
7.5. Inspect, certify, and dispose of munitions residue IAW T.O. 11A-1-60, Inspection of
Reusable Munitions Containers and Scrap Material Generated from Items Exposed to or
Containing Explosives. Munitions Residue Inspectors will be appointed in writing by the 60
EMS Squadron Commander or Munitions Flight Chief. Provide a list of authorized inspectors,
certifiers and verifiers to DRMO.
7.6. When required, provide technically qualified guidance and supervisory assistance in support
of any Travis AFB explosives operation.
7.7. Ensure proper controls are in effect for supply transactions of explosives to preclude
unauthorized procurement or disposition. Request for local purchase munitions/explosives must
be approved by the base Munitions Accountable System Officer (MASO), Environmental
Management, Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD), and 60AMW/SEW prior to submitting
request to the Chief of Supply. All purchases of explosives will be IAW AFI 21-201,
Management and Maintenance of Non-Nuclear Munitions, and will be limited to quantities that
can be consumed within a 30-day period.
7.8. Ensure qualified Technical Specialists are appointed to certify explosives shipments by
military aircraft. Technical Specialists must have satisfactorily completed required training as
outlined in AFJMAN 24-204.
8. 60th Aerial Port Squadron (60 APS).
8.1. Ensure all explosives and other hazardous material operations are under the direct
supervision of personnel who thoroughly understand the hazards and risks involved.
8.2. Ensure all explosives operations are controlled by approved operating instructions and
personnel are properly instructed before starting the operation(s).
6                                              TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009

8.3. Maintain written procedures for the implementation of tier II or III munitions operations
when high fragmenting category (18) or (21) munitions are present on the Hotel Ramp or “B-
Bunker” area.
8.4. Ensure Reports of Discrepancies (RODS) are accomplished when deficiencies are noted in
shipments.
8.5. Ensure personnel most knowledgeable of the requirements accomplish inspection and
certification of hazardous materials shipments. Personnel must be authorized in writing to
accomplish Shipper's Declaration for Dangerous Goods.
8.6. Establish procedures to ensure all surface shipments arriving via commercial carrier are
directed to the proper location for inspecting/holding/delivery IAW paragraph 17 of this
instruction.
8.7. Information Control will ensure Command Post Operations Controllers receive a copy of
AMC Form 4080, Load/Sequence Breakdown Worksheet, for each departing mission containing
hazardous materials (HM) scheduled for airlift. Information will include HM class/division
number, compatibility code, inhabited building distance (IBD) if applicable, gross weight, net
explosives weight (NEW), position on aircraft, and number of pieces. This information will be
provided for departing aircraft.
8.8. Prepare, process, and dispatch complete information for hazardous cargo on the departure
message required by AMCI 24-101, Volume 9, Air Terminal Operations Center.
9. Command Post (60 AMW/CP).
9.1. Coordinate with interested activities to ensure compliance with explosives and hazardous
materials movement requirements.
9.2. Ensure personnel performing actions involving explosives/hazardous materials are familiar
and comply with the following:
9.2.1. Mission briefings and tower reporting IAW AFJI 11-204, Operational Procedures for
Aircraft Carrying Hazardous Material, AFJMAN 24-204, and AMCI 24-101, Volume 9.
9.2.2. Operational requirement for aircraft hauling DoD sponsored cargo under DOT-
exemption-7573 (DoD Contract Airlift).
9.2.3. Procedures for parking aircraft loaded with hazardous cargo at authorized and designated
spots and for ensuring the authorized NEW for the location is not exceeded.
9.3. When it has been determined that the mandatory quantity-distance requirements of AFMAN
91-201 cannot be met due to an emergency condition or unpredicted operational necessity,
contact the 60 AMW/SE or 60 AMW/SEW to request the 60 AMW Commander's approval for a
one-time, 72 hour Emergency Event Waiver IAW AFMAN 91-201, Chapter 5.
9.4. Develop OI's or checklist governing incoming and outgoing aircraft laden with
explosives/hazardous materials, Safe Haven requests, or requests for assistance involving DoD
explosives shipment mishaps.
9.5. Pass hazardous materials load information on arriving/departing aircraft to Airfield
Management Operations (60 OSS/OSAA).
10. Airfield Management Operations (60 OSS/OSAA).
10.1. Request the following information when notified of an inbound/outbound aircraft with
hazardous cargo.
10.1.1. Aircraft call-sign.
10.1.2. Type of aircraft.
10.1.3. ETA/ETD.
10.1.4. Type/class of hazardous cargo.
TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009                                                            7

10.1.5. Net explosive weight and/or line number.
10.1.6. Confirm information is provided on the aircraft flight plan.
10.2. Provide the information in paragraphs 10.1.1.-10.1.6. to the 60 AMW/CP if it was received
through sources other that the 60 AMW/CP.
11. 60th Security Forces Squadron (60 SFS).
11.1. All commercial carriers transporting explosives will enter Travis AFB via the South Gate
only. See paragraph 17 of this instruction for duty and non-duty hour entry procedures.
11.1.1. Any arrivals at gates other than the south gate will be turned around and directed to the
South Gate by Security Forces Personnel. Use the most direct route taking into consideration the
least populated areas.
11.2. Security Forces will provide very high risk category weapons or explosives with
continuous armed surveillance when loading/off-loading.
12. Wing Plans (60 AMW/XP).
12.1. Coordinate all operational plans and programming actions and support agreements
involving explosives with 60 AMW/SEW.
13. 60th Logistics Readiness Squadron (60 LRS).
13.1. Ensure all explosives and other hazardous material operations are under the direct
supervision of personnel who thoroughly understand the hazards and risks involved.
13.2. Ensure all explosives operations are controlled by approved operating instructions and
personnel are properly instructed before starting the operation(s).
13.3. Ensure Reports of Discrepancies (RODS) are accomplished when deficiencies are noted in
shipments.
13.4. Establish procedures for the inspection of incoming/outgoing hazardous materials loaded
vehicles using DD Form 626, Motor Vehicle Inspection (Transporting Hazardous Material).
13.5. Ensure all hazardous material shipments departing Travis AFB via surface mode are
properly loaded, blocked, braced, and appropriate shipping documents are prepared IAW
applicable directives.
13.6. Ensure that personnel most knowledgeable of the requirements accomplish inspection and
certification of hazardous materials shipments. Personnel must be authorized in writing to
accomplish Shipper's Declaration for Dangerous Goods.
13.7. Ensure Military Traffic Management Command (MTMC) Terminal Facilities Guide
contains current information concerning storage and handling capability of Travis AFB for
explosives, poisons, and biological agents.
13.8. Ensure emergency contact telephone numbers and shipment specific hazard information is
included on shipping papers as directed in paragraph 27.4 of this instruction.
14. Correspondence and Messages.
14.1. All activities will immediately advise 60 AMW/SEW of correspondence and messages
(including classified), for which they are OPR, relating to unusual or abnormal handling, use,
storage, or movement of explosives on Travis AFB.
15. On-Base Explosives Movements.
15.1. Transport vehicles will be placarded to identify the highest hazard being transported.
(Exception: HC/D 1.4 explosives do not require placards on base.)
15.2. Explosive laded vehicles will use prescribed explosive routes in Attachment 6. Exception:
Movements of munitions within a munitions storage area, flightline, to and from licensed storage
locations; and transportation of explosives in support of the training of working dogs are not
restricted to designated routes.
8                                                 TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009

15.3. Vehicles transporting explosives that are exempt from following explosives routes will
proceed to their destination via the most direct route, avoiding built up areas as much as possible
and key, mission-oriented facilities and equipment to the maximum extent possible.
15.4. Access to the Sugar Area should be via the Perimeter Road or across the North Runway at
Taxiway “D.” Vehicles accessing the Sugar Area via Taxiway “D” will do so under the escort of
a vehicle radio equipped for Tower frequency. The escort vehicle will obtain clearance from the
tower to cross the runway. Airfield Management Operations will be notified in advance of
vehicles requiring access to the Sugar Area via Taxiway “D.”
15.5. Personnel that transport explosives, are responsible to promptly notify the Fire Alarm
Central Communications center (FACC) whenever there is a change in fire or hazard symbol at
facilities or aircraft. Notification will be accomplish via 60 AMW/CP.
16. Off-Base Explosives Movement.
16.1. For transporting military explosives and munitions not on an Air Force installation, but in
an Air Force conveyance, operated by Air Force personnel, the rules in Title CFR 49,
Transportation, must be applied to the extent they are prescribed in USAF/DOD directives.
16.2. Transport vehicles will be placarded to identify the highest hazard being transported.
(Exception: 1000 lbs. or less gross weight of 1.4 explosives does not require placards.)
16.3. Drivers will be qualified on transport vehicle, inspect transport vehicle using DD Form
626), and complete DD Form 836, Dangerous Goods Shipping Paper and Emergency Response
Information, identifying all hazardous cargo being transported.
16.4. DD Form 836s must be certified by qualified Traffic Management Office (TMO)
personnel who have completed a “Hazard Material Preparer Course” or qualified Technical
Specialist as outlined in AFJMAN 24-204.
17. Surface Explosives Shipments.
17.1. When explosives-loaded vehicles arrive at the South Gate while the gate is manned by
Security Forces personnel, the gate guard will phone Air Terminal Operation Center (ATOC) to
inform them of the truck arrival. ATOC will ask the gate guard to direct the truck to the B-
Bunker. ATOC will notify the TMO Truck Dock personnel that the truck is being directed to the
B-Bunker. TMO Truck Dock personnel will send a representative to the B-Bunker to inspect the
truck IAW paragraph 13.4. of this instruction. For after hours procedures see paragraph 17.3.
17.2. B-Bunker/TMO personnel will check the shipment documentation and accomplish the
necessary inspections and processing IAW paragraph 13.4. If abnormalities are detected during
the vehicle inspection, the vehicle will be escorted to the suspect vehicle area located at the
railhead.
17.2.1. If the documentation reveals the shipment is destined for 60 EMS/MXMW, the
Munitions Flight will be contacted. 60 EMS Munitions personnel will proceed to the B-Bunker
to take delivery of the munitions or escort the driver to the desired location.
17.3. Commercial vehicles arriving after duty hours (1500-0800) will be afforded access to the
base for parking until delivery can be accepted.
17.3.1. Drivers will contact ATOC at the phone number posted on the sign located on the
outside of the South Gate.
17.3.2. ATOC will notify freight personnel and Security Forces Control Center of the truck
arrival.
17.3.2.1. ATOC/60 APS personnel will send a representative to inspect the truck IAW
paragraph 13.4 of this instruction. APS personnel will provide the net explosive weight (NEW),
Class/Division and inhabited building distance (IBD) to ATOC and direct the truck to the
TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009                                                            9

railhead. The truck driver will be informed of the responsibility to stay with the load until the
next morning.
17.3.2.2. Security Forces Control Center will dispatch personnel to escort for the vehicle to the
railhead for temporary holding. Security Forces personnel will instruct the driver as to the
carrier's responsibility to maintain security surveillance until delivery is accepted.
17.3.3. Escort personnel will ensure appropriate fire symbols are posted at the railhead when
explosives loaded trucks are present.
17.3.4. ATOC will notify the Base Fire Department and Special Handling personnel with the
truck cargo information.
17.3.5. 60 APS personnel will remove all fire symbols and notify the fire department change of
fire symbol when retrieving trucking the morning after arrival.
17.4. Safe refuge for DoD explosive shipments will be provided upon request. Requests for
Safe Refuge will be coordinated through the 60 AMW/CP. Holding areas for safe refuge
vehicles are the railhead (primary) and Hotel Area aircraft parking spots (alternate).
17.5. Department of Energy request for Safe Haven will be handled IAW 60 AMW Installation
Security Plan 31-101.
18. Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard (AFOSH).
18.1. AFOSH training for newly assigned personnel conducted IAW AFI 91-301, Air Force
Occupational and Environment Safety, Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH) Program, will
include explosive hazards and precautions for those personnel engaged in explosives operation.
19. Task Qualification.
19.1. Personnel involved in explosives operations will be trained and qualified in the task to be
performed.
19.2. Task qualification will be reflected on individual Special Training Standards (STS), locally
developed AF Form 797, Job Proficiency Guides Continuation Sheets or AF Form 1098, Special
Task Certification and Recurring Training. For example: "inspects and packs distress signal
and survival equipment in life rafts"; or “inspects, stores, and issues munitions used by security
personnel”. For civilians, record qualifications on AF Forms 1098 and file with AF Form 971,
Supervisor's Record of Employee.
19.3. Where task involves, the handling and transport of explosives using materials handling
equipment and vehicles, individuals must be licensed IAW AFJMAN 24-306, Manual for the
Wheeled Vehicle Driver and receive specific training on the use of such equipment in the
handling and transport of explosives. Training records (as indicated in Paragraph 19.2. above)
will reflect appropriate qualifications. For example, "Handles, load/unloads, and transports
explosives.”
19.3.1. Personnel required to use Material Handling Equipment (MHE) will be evaluated
annually IAW AFOSHSTD 91-46, Material Handling and Storage Equipment.
20. Explosives Storage Licensing.
20.1. Explosive storage and handling locations that are not formally sited to contain explosives
will be licensed IAW AFMAN 91-201, Paragraph 2.35. Quantities of munitions depicted on the
license are limited to minimum quantities necessary to support specific, mission essential,
explosives operations or missions. Licenses will not be used for convenience.
21. Exceptions to Explosives Licensing Requirements.
21.1. The above licensing requirements do not apply to those locations formally sited for
explosives IAW AFMAN 91-201, or to the storage of small arms ammunition, commercial
maritime distress signals, and like items in the Base Exchange or family housing. Formally sited
10                                                 TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009

explosives locations are identified in Attachments 2 through 5 and on the base Comprehensive
Plan-Base Layout Explosives Safety Zones Map, Tab D-8.
22. Prohibitions.
22.1. Explosives items, including powder and primers for hand loading of ammunition, boating
distress signals, amateur rockets and fireworks, will not be stored in dormitories or transient
quarters.
22.2. The 60 EMS/MXMW, base munitions personnel, cannot store or dispose of any
commercial munitions/explosives. Units in possession of any commercial explosives requiring
disposal must contact 60 CES/CEV for hazardous waste disposal.
22.3. Purchase of any commercial explosive item is strictly prohibited without prior coordination
and approval. Detailed procedures are contained in AFI 21-201, and TAFBI 21-202, Control of
Local Purchase Munitions.
23. Placarding of Explosives Loaded Aircraft.
23.1. A single prominently displayed explosives fire symbol at the nose of aircraft parked on
spots H13, H14, and S9 thru S12 may be used to satisfy explosives loaded aircraft identification
requirements. For all other spots, post explosives fire symbols at the front and tail of the aircraft.
Full sized fire symbols will be used on spots H13 and H14.
23.2. Promptly notify the Fire Alarm Central Communications center (FACC) whenever there is
a change in fire or hazard symbol. Notification will be accomplish via 60 AMW/CP.
24. Mishap Reporting.
24.1. All explosive mishaps (example: damage, inadvertent functioning, involvement in a flight
or ground mishap) regardless of the cost involved will be reported to the 60 AMW/SEW.
Additionally; all incidents of dropped munitions/explosives, whether any apparent damage
occurred or not, will be reported.
25. Exercises Involving Live Explosives.
25.1. All personnel functioning smoke grenades and simulators must complete initial and
annual proficiency training provided by 60CES/EOD personnel.
25.2. All exercises involving the functioning of live explosives (example: Blank ammunition,
smokes, flare, and simulators) must be coordinated with 60 AMW/SEW IAW TAFBI 91-105,
Training Exercises with Explosives, before scheduling the exercise. This requirement does not
apply to the following:
25.3. Explosive Ordnance Disposal Team training conducted on the EOD Proficiency Range.
25.4. Small Arms Training conducted on the Small Arms Firing range.
25.5. Blank Small Arms used by the Base Drill Team.
25.6. Blank Small Arms used for Military Working Dog training.
26. Inspections and Testing of Lightning Protection and Static Ground Systems.
26.1. Inspections and tests of explosives storage area lightning protection and static ground
systems are outlined in AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems, Table 1, Category #12, (Non-
Hazardous Explosives Area).
26.2. The user will accomplish a visual inspection of all static wire bonds quarterly.
26.3. The user will accomplish a continuity check from equipment to static ground every 24
months.
26.4. 60 CES/CEOIE will perform a visual inspection of lightning protection systems every 12
months.
26.5. Base Civil Engineers will perform a resistance check on lightning protection earth ground
systems and conductivity checks on air terminals, bonds and conductors every 24 months.
TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009                                                              11

26.6. Inspections and tests will be documented. The using agency will be provided a copy of
lightning system inspections and test results.
27. Vehicle Accidents Involving DOD Munition and Explosives.
27.1. It is DoD policy that representatives of the military respond as quickly as possible when
alerted that a vehicle accident involving DoD munitions or explosives requires a response to help
safeguard the public. In such cases, action will be promptly taken to prevent loss of life, injury,
and property damage, maintain security, and minimize public inconvenience. Resolution of
questions or problems regarding the service or agency having primary responsibility will be a
secondary priority after the fact. Assistance will be provided first, and resolution of institutional
issues later.
27.2. Travis AFB agencies (for example, Aerial Port, Security Forces, etc.) receiving
notification or request for assistance for an accident involving a shipment of DoD munitions or
explosives will immediately refer the caller to the 60 AMW/CP.
27.3. Travis Command Post will be notified of all requests for assistance. They will
immediately notify the Army Operations Center, or Defense Switch Network, and relay all
available information. The Command Post will be the focal point for coordinating Travis'
response and assistance efforts.
27.4. Logistics Readiness Squadron will ensure emergency contact telephone numbers and
shipment specific hazard information are included on the shipping papers.
28. Weapon Clearing and Transfer Procedures.
28.1. Weapon clearing barrels will be available and used at locations where firearms are
routinely issued and stored. Clearing barrels and procedures will meet the standards outlined in
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force for Air Force Personnel and AFMAN 31-229, USAF
Weapons Handling Manual.
28.2. If a clearing barrel is not available, firearms may be loaded/unloaded and cleared in an
open area as far as practicable from aircraft, equipment, buildings, and personnel. Point the
weapons down towards an unpaved surface in a direction presenting the least likelihood of
something being struck by an inadvertently discharged round.
28.3. Do not use hand-to-hand transfer of loaded handguns. If a loaded handgun must be
transferred between individuals, the person surrendering the weapon will place it on a flat
surface, (for example, floor, table top, counter top, vehicle seat, etc.) and the receiver will
immediately pick it up and take control.
12                                         TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009


29. Forms Adopted.
AF Form 673, Request to Issue Publication
AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 626, Motor Vehicle Inspection (Transporting Hazardous Material)
DD Form 836, Dangerous Goods Shipping Paper and Emergency Response Information
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 797, Job Qualification Standard Continuation/Command JQS
AF Form 971, Supervisor's Record of Employee
AF Form 1098, Special Task Certification and Recurring Training
AF Form 2047, Explosives Facilities License
AMC Form 4080, Load/Sequence Breakdown Worksheet


                                                   STEVEN J. ARQUIETTE, Col, USAF
                                                    Commander, 60th Air Mobility Wing
TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009                                                     13


                           ATTACHMENT 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFJI 11-204, Operational Procedures for Aircraft Carrying Hazardous Material
AFI 21-201, Management and Maintenance of Non-Nuclear Munitions
AMCI 24-101, Volume 9, Air Terminal Operations Center
AFMAM 24-204, Preparing Hazardous Material for Military Air Shipments
AFJI 24-211, V4, Terminal Facilities Guide
AFJMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Driver
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force for Air Force Personnel
AFMAN 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Manual
AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems
AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs
AFOSHSTD 91-46, Materials Handling and Storage Equipment
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environment Safety, Fire Protection and Health
(AFOSH) Program
Code of Federal Regulation Title 49, Transportation
T.O. 00-35D-54, USAF Deficiency Reporting and Investigating System
T.O. 11A-1-60, Inspection of Reusable Munitions Containers and Scrap Material Generated
from Items Exposed to or Containing Explosives
TAFBI 21-202, Munitions Reconciliation Procedures
TAFBI 91-105, Training Exercises with Explosives
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADWSR—Additional Duty Weapons Safety Representatives
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFJI—Air Force Joint Instructions
AFJMAN—Air Force Joint Manual
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health
AFOSHSTD—Air Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health Standard
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMC—Air Mobility Command
AMW—Air Mobility Wing
APS—Aerial Port Squadron
ATOC—Air Terminal Operation Center
14                                           TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009

CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DD Form—Department of Defense Form
DoD—Department of Defense
DOT—Department of Transportation
DRMO—Defense Re-utilization and Marketing Office
EMS—Equipment Maintenance Squadron
EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
ESOHC—Environmental Maintenance Squadron
e-Publishing—the e-Publishing website (Air Force E-Publishing - Home)
FACC—Fire Alarm Control Center
GBS—Ground Burst Simulator
HM—Hazardous Materials
IAW—In Accordance With
IBD—Inhabited Building Distance
MASO—Munitions Accountable Systems Officer
MTMC—Military Traffic Management Command
NEW—Net Explosive Weight
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
RODS—Report of Discrepancies
SE—Wing Safety
SEW—Wing Weapons Safety Office
STS—Special Training Standards
T.O.—Technical Order
TAFBI—Travis Air Force Base Instruction
TMO—Traffic Management Office
USAF—United States Air Force
TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009                                                            15


Terms
Deviation—Written authorization that allows specific departure from mandatory explosives
safety requirements other than quantity-distance criteria.
Explosives—All ammunition, biological and chemical fillers, demolition material, solid rocket
motors, liquid propellants, cartridges, pyrotechnics, mines, bombs, grenades, warheads of all
types, explosive elements of ejection and air crew egress systems, explosive components of
missile/space systems, and assembled kits/devices containing explosives materials.
AF Form 2047—This license is required for all activities/locations involving storage, handling,
or use of explosives outside formally sited locations. Requests for licenses will be submitted to,
60 AMW/SEW for approval.
Firearms—Includes military and privately owned rifles, shotguns, pistols and automatic
weapons.
Hazardous Materials (HM)—Any material which has flammable, corrosive, oxidizing,
explosive, toxic, radioactive, or unduly magnetic properties. (Unduly magnetic means sufficient
magnetic field strength is present to cause significant navigational deviations to the compass
sensing devices of an aircraft).
HM Classification—Hazardous materials classification system is based on the system
recommended for international use by the United Nations organization. Under this system all
ammunition and explosives are listed a Class 1, Explosive. Ammunition without explosive
components, but which contain toxic chemical agents in bulk, is listed as Class 6, Poisonous
(Toxic) and Infectious Substances. Class 1 Explosives are further subdivided into six divisions
and are normally expressed as class/division 1.1, 1.2.1, 1.2.2, 1.2.3, 1.3, or 1.4. Other HM
classes include Class 2 Gases, Class 3 Flammable Liquids, Class 4-Flammable Solids, Class 5 -
Oxidizing Substances, Class 6 Poisonous and Infectious Substances, Class 7 - Radioactive
Materials, Class 8 - Corrosives, and Class 9 - Miscellaneous.
Inhabited Building—All buildings, locations, or structures, other than explosive locations, used
in whole or in part as habitations, places, or assembly for personnel, both within and outside
military establishments not directly related to explosives operations. For example: schools,
churches, residences (quarters), passenger terminals, shopping areas, factories, hospitals,
theaters, dinning halls, or hangars.
Inhabited Building Distance (IBD)—The minimum allowable distance between an inhabited
building or non related personnel and a potential explosion site.
Net Explosives Weight (NEW)—The actual or high explosives equivalent weight of explosive
material contained within a weapon, component, or device.
Operating Instruction (OI)—A written procedure covering operations and containing pre-
planned steps in logical sequence, along with safety precautions, by which a supervisor expects
to accomplish a given job.
Tiered Explosives Site Plans (Tier II or III)—Tiered sitting is used when the explosives
content of an explosive facility varies because of operational requirements. Under this concept, it
is frequently possible to take management actions (compensatory measures) to protect or move
resources and people before the introduction or increase of explosives.
Waivers—Written authorization, which permits specific deviation from mandatory explosives
quantity distance requirements for a stated period of time.
16                                          TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009


                          ATTACHMENT 2
      FORMALLY SITED EXPLOSIVE STORAGE LOCATIONS (A - BUNKER)

Figure A2.1. Explosive Storage Locations (A-bunker)
TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009   17
18                                          TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009


                          ATTACHMENT 3
      FORMALLY SITED EXPLOSIVE STORAGE LOCATIONS (B- BUNKER)

Figure A3.1. Explosive Storage Locations (B-Bunker)
TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009   19
20                                          TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009


                            ATTACHMENT 4
              FORMALLY SITED AIRCRAFT PARKING LOCATIONS
Figure A4.1. Formally Sited Aircraft Parking Locations
TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009   21
22                                      TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009


                              ATTACHMENT 5
                         FORMALLY SITED EOD RANGE

Figure A5.1. Formally Sited EOD Range
TRAVISAFBI91-104 28 JANUARY 2009                     23


                               ATTACHMENT 6
                         EXPLOSIVES VEHICLE ROUTES

Figure A6.1. Primary and Alternate Routes
