BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                            TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                   INSTRUCTION 34-104

                                                                              4 DECEMBER 2008

                                                                                Services
                                                             BASE HONOR GUARD PROGRAM




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 60 FSS/CC                       Certified by: 60 AMW/CCC (CMSgt Michael M. Williams)
                                                                                Pages: 11

This instruction supplements AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, Chapter 8, Base Honor
Guard Program and Conduct of Funerals. It establishes and delegates responsibility for the
Travis AFB Honor Guard program. It defines the primary role and composition of the Team
Travis AFB Honor Guard in both on and off-base activities, and describes the appropriate dress
and appearance standards for Base Honor Guard members.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af/mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.

1. General.

1.1. The rendering of military funeral honors is steep in tradition and represents the nation’s
everlasting gratitude to those who, in times of peace and war, have faithfully defended our
country. This instruction provides policy on how to execute the Air Force’s military funeral
honors program on Travis AFB. Travis AFB Honor Guard teams also support the following
activities when manning permits:
1.1.1. Change of command ceremonies. (Wing up to 20 person detail, Group up to 4 person
detail).
1.1.2. Military retirement ceremonies. (Two man flag fold only).
1.1.3. Other military activities the 60th Air Mobility Wing Commander decides are appropriate.
1.1.4. All off base/non-DoD color guard requests will be coordinated through the 60th Air
Mobility Wing Command Chief. Community events will be at the discretion of the 60th Air
Mobility Wing Commander.


2. Responsibilities.

2.1. 60 AMW/CC.
2.1.1. Responsible for the Travis AFB Honor Guard program.
2.1.2. Provides funding and resources to meet operational requirements, and provides storage,
training and administrative space for the Travis AFB Honor Guard.
2.1.3. Determines size of the Travis AFB Honor Guard based on installation location, size of
local population, and how often military and civilian protocol activities occur.
2.1.4. Requests subordinate and tenant unit manpower support. Establishes an MOU between
Travis AFB Honor Guard and the 349 AFRES Wing and 615 CRW organizations.
2.2. Group Commanders.
2.2.1. Group commanders are responsible for providing manpower to the Travis AFB Honor
Guard as directed by 60 AMW/CC.
2.2.2. Group Superintendents will be the group POC for Honor Guard members within their
respective groups. Group Superintendents will coordinate with First Sergeants regarding
manpower issues.
2.3. 60 FSS/CC.
2.3.1. Manages the honor guard program for 60 AMW/CC.
2.3.2. Requests MPA man-day support for 349 AFRES augmentation.
2.3.3. Delegates authority to the Travis AFB Mortuary Affairs Officer.
2.4. Squadron Commanders.
2.4.1. Responsible for fulfilling honor guard manpower commitments as assigned by their
respective group commanders.
2.4.2. Screen honor guard candidates based on criteria outlined within this instruction and
recommend/disapprove membership accordingly.
2.4.3. Responsible for maintaining sufficient numbers of trained personnel on-hand to meet
honor guard commitments.
2.4.4. By signing a potential honor guard member’s application for membership, agrees to
ensure the availability of the member for honor guard duty.
2.4.5. Replaces members unavailable for honor guard duty. Replacement members may come
from the same squadron or group.
2.4.5.1. If unable to replace the primary HG member; a letter of justification will be routed
through the member’s Group Superintendent for submission to the responsible Group/CC.
Group superintendents will make every effort to find a replacement from within their respective
groups prior to forwarding the shortfall to 60 AMW/CCC.
2.4.6. Approval authority for all rotation (part-time) honor guard members.
2.5. Squadron First Sergeants.
2.5.1. Primary point of contact for honor guard issues within their respective squadrons.
2.5.2. Assist commanders to fulfill honor guard obligations and act as liaison between their
squadrons and the honor guard staff.
2.5.3. Will coordinate with their respective Group Superintendents for all matters concerning
base honor guard within their squadrons.
2.6. Travis AFB Honor Guard Superintendent.
2.6.1. Responsible for daily operations of the base honor guard. (As delegated by the Mortuary
Affairs Officer).
2.6.2. Will notify honor guard members, at least 2 weeks prior, of their scheduled honor guard
rotation.
2.6.2.1. Provide a courtesy copy to the member’s First Sergeant and Group Superintendent on
all manning concerns.
2.6.3. Maintain roster information on all assigned members. Forward roster information to 60
AMW/CCC by the close of business on the Monday prior to the start of each new rotation.
2.6.4. Prepare annual budget input for base honor guard requirements.
2.6.5. Train and equip honor guard team members.
2.6.6. Act as liaison between base activities and the honor guard.
2.6.7. Ensure completion of AF Form 1946, Honor Guard Checklist, for all funeral detail
requests and for other activities in which the honor guard participates.
2.6.8. Prepare reports in accordance with AFI 34-242, Chapter 8 paragraph 8.23.6.


3. Honor Guard Members.


3.1. Full time Honor Guard Members.
3.1.1. Full time staff positions are one-year commitments and will be considered for extension
on a case by case basis.
3.1.2. The honor guard staff provides the leadership for the honor guard program. Personnel
selected to fill honor guard positions must maintain a high degree of professionalism, meet all
minimum Air Force standards for weight, body fat and fitness, and demonstrate strict adherence
to the Air Force core values. Prior to assigning personnel to these positions, consideration
should be given to ensure personnel selected do not expect PCS orders within one year of
assignment, will not separate within one-year of assignment, or do not have long-term medical
profiles that will prevent them from performing honor guard duties. Deployments will be
approved on a case by case basis by the 60 AMW/CC. Current full time taskings are as follows:
3.1.2.1. 60 AMW - One MSgt or above (Superintendent) and one SrA or above (administration).
3.1.2.2. 349 AFRES - Six (Note refer to MOA and man-day restrictions).
3.1.3. The Travis AFB Honor Guard superintendent is a master sergeant or master sergeant
select position. This position will rotate between the groups and will count for one of the
fulltime staff positions as tasked above (regardless of tasked rank structure). This individual
must display outstanding leadership characteristics and must possess the skills and experience to
coordinate large numbers of personnel and high profile events on a daily basis.
3.2. Honor Guard Rotation Positions: Rotation slots begin with a one-year commitment to the
honor guard. Squadron commanders are the approval authority for personnel to fill rotational
assignments on the honor guard. Personnel are not relieved of their honor guard commitments at
the end of one year until replaced by another trained and ready honor guard member.
Responsible squadron commanders may grant extensions for rotational members for any length
of time once the first year is complete. Quotas for honor guard rotational positions by group are
as follows:
Officers                 Enlisted
3.2.1. 60 AMW/OG         2     3
3.2.2. 615 CRW           0     4
3.2.3. 60 MDG            2     7
3.2.4. 60 MSG            1     8
3.2.5. 60 MXG            0     8
3.2.6. Totals            5     30
3.3. All new honor guard rotational members are required to complete the five-day military
funeral honors training course (local course) prior to assuming a position on the roster and count
against squadron or group manpower. This class is offered six times per year (every other
month). Squadrons are responsible for forecasting projected losses and plan replacement
member training accordingly.
3.4. Personnel who have completed their one year commitment may remain on the honor guard
as an “Augmentee” but will not count towards group taskings. Additionally, these individuals
must volunteer for honor guard duty at least two days each month to maintain proficiency.
4. Training.
4.1. The goal of the Travis AFB Honor Guard is to mirror the Air Force Honor Guard (Bolling
AFB) in every possible facet of military funeral honors and color guard procedures. Training
and drill are critical to achieving success. The Travis AFB Honor Guard will maintain the
responsibility for training and evaluating all units performing military funeral honors within their
assigned AOR, to include Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard assets. Reserve and
National Guard units are responsible for purchasing and maintaining their own uniforms.
4.2. All new honor guard members will attend and complete the local military funeral honors
training course and receive uniform issue prior to assuming honor guard duties. This training
restriction applies to former honor guard members that completed honor guard training
elsewhere. This is to ensure standardization of honor guard procedures and to protect the
integrity of this program. Uniforms issued at other Air Force installations will be inspected and
approved prior to being used for honor guard functions.
4.3. The local military funeral honors training course is a five-day block of instruction (Monday
thru Friday), and is designed to give members the basics of military funeral honors as well as
indoctrinating members in local procedures. The class culminates in a graduation ceremony on
the last day of class.
4.4. Time permitting, the Travis AFB Honor Guard will also offer a three-day color guard
training class periodically throughout the year. This is not a mandatory course. The intent is to
offer squadrons the opportunity to train personnel to use at their discretion for colors details in
support of unit functions. Personnel attending this course will not be authorized wear of the
ceremonial uniform nor will they be authorized wear of the base honor guard patch (unless
they’ve completed the funeral honors training course). Trainees in this course will learn basic
color guard drill, presenting and posting colors, basic rifle drill, and the two-man flag fold (for
retirement ceremonies).
4.5. In addition, the Travis AFB Honor Guard will train other personnel for special functions
upon request. This instruction is based on the availability of trainers.
5. Uniforms.
5.1. All honor guard members will maintain their ceremonial uniforms in ready condition at all
times. On the first day of rotation, members will report in BDU’s. Regardless of the schedule,
members will always report with their ceremonial uniform ready for wear.
5.2. The base honor guard patch is only authorized for wear by those individuals who have
completed the required training and are active with the Travis AFB Honor Guard (on the current
honor guard roster.) Team members will remove all base honor guard patches or “cookies” from
their uniform once removed from active honor guard status.
5.3. Primarily, the two uniforms used by honor guard members are the Battle Dress Uniform
(BDU) and ceremonial uniform. Other uniform combinations may be required based on the type
of event supported. All uniforms worn by honor guard members will be in accordance with AFI
36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, or other applicable
instructions.
5.4. The Battle Dress Uniform (BDU) is worn primarily for training and work details. In
addition to the standards in AFI 36-2903, the following guidance will also be adhered to:
5.4.1. All honor guard members performing honor guard duties will wear the black Travis AFB
Honor Guard baseball cap. This hat will be issued upon completion of training. No squadron
headgear will be worn while assigned to the honor guard. Exception: Honor guard members
may wear their squadron designated headgear while performing honor guard duties for their own
squadron and the BDU is the uniform prescribed for the event. Not authorized per AFI 36-2903,
Table 2.2, Item 7 and 2.4, Item 6.
5.5. Upon completion of honor guard duties the ceremonial uniform will be returned to the
honor guard clothing NCOIC during out processing.
6. Adopted Forms. AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, AF Form 1946,
Honor Guard Checklist.


MARK C. DILLON, Colonel, USAF
Commander, 60th Air Mobility Wing
                             Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records

Abbreviation and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AF IMT—Air Force Information Management Tool
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRES—Air Force Reserve
AMW—Air Mobility Wing
AOR—Area of Responsibility
BDU—Battle Dress Uniform
CC—Commander
CCC—Command Chief Master Sergeant
CRW—Contingency Response Wing
DOD—Department of Defense
HG—Honor Guard
MDG—Medical Group
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
MPA—Military Personnel Appropriation
MSG—Mission Support Group
MSGT—Master Sergeant
MXG—Maintenance Group
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer In Charge
OG—Operations Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SRA—Senior Airman
FSS—Force Support Squadron
                                         Attachment 2
                                   Honor Guard Application


A2.1. The United States Air Force Honor Guard program was designed to establish well-trained
and highly professional guardsmen to represent the finest military traditions of discipline,
appearance, and competence. The Travis Honor Guard is the embodiment of the highest military
standards and professionalism Travis AFB has to offer. The Honor Guard performs a vast range
of ceremonies and special services including funerals for deceased military personnel, change of
commands, retirement ceremonies, and color guards. The 60th Air Mobility Wing Commander
takes the duties of the Honor Guard very seriously; therefore we recruit and train only the best
Airmen the wing has to offer. Honor Guard members are direct representatives of the United
States Air Force and Travis AFB both on and off duty.

A2.2. The applicant must complete a five-day training course before acceptance into the Honor
Guard. During the course, the applicant will belong exclusively to the Honor Guard and is
excused from his/her duty section until graduation. Once accepted, the member must adhere to
the following:

A2.2.1. Serve all two-week rotations for one year. If the member has to reschedule his/her
rotation due to TDY, leave, or critical manning shortages, the respective squadron or group is
responsible for sending somebody else to fulfill the requirement.

A2.2.2. Members must meet standards outlined in AFI 36-2903, Dress and Appearance of Air
Force Personnel.

A2.2.3. Members must remain medically qualified. Short term, illnesses are not grounds for
removal from the Honor Guard program. However, long-term medical profiles that preclude the
member from fulfilling Honor Guard obligations will be assessed as the need arises.

A2.3. Please complete this application and return it to the Honor Guard Admin section for
processing. The mailing address is: 60 FSS/HG 510 Airlift drive bldg 380B, Travis AFB CA
94535. Only original applications will be accepted (no faxes/e-mails). Please contact the Honor
Guard at DSN 837-5872/COMM 707-4245872 if you have any questions. Thank you for your
interest in joining the Travis Honor Guard. “To Honor with Dignity”
                                   Attachment 3
                              Honor Guard Application

Figure A3.1. Honor Guard Application
                                    Attachment 4
                        AF Form 1946, Honor Guard Checklist

Figure A4.1. AF Form 1946, Honor Guard Checklist
