BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                 INSTRUCTION 10-203

                                                                           8 DECEMBER 2008

                                                                                     Operations

                                               WING AUGMENTATION DUTY PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 60 MSG/CAG                                                       Certified by: 60 MSG/CC
                                                                       (Colonel Stephen Shea)
                                                                                       Pages: 9

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-2, Readiness. It describes local
policy, procedures, and responsibilities for the Augmentation Duty Program at Travis Air Force
Base, utilizing guidance outlined in Air Force Pamphlet 10-243; Wing Augmentation Duty
Program. The Augmentation Duty Program (ADP) is designed to meet the temporary personnel
shortages of local commanders caused by situations or conditions that require the realignment of
existing personnel resources during exercise, contingency, emergency, or wartime conditions.
The Augmentation Duty Review Board (ADRB) approves and prioritizes requirements. This
publication applies to all officer and enlisted personnel assigned to Travis AFB.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained In Accordance With (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) located at https://www.my.af/mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command.
1. Mission.
1.1. Augmentation is defined as Travis wide realignment of personnel, in other than their
assigned Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC), and outside their unit of assignment.
1.2. The Augmentation Duty Program identifies, places, codes, and trains personnel to meet
augmentee needs for installation-level exercise, contingency, emergency, or wartime conditions.
2. Responsibilities.
2.1. Augmentation Duty Review Board, as a function of the Installation Readiness Board.
2.1.1. Board Members:
2.1.1.1. The chairperson (60 AMW/CV), 60 AMW/DS, 60 MDG/CC or CD, 60 MSG/CC or
CD, 60 OG/CC or CD, and the 60 MXG/CC or CD.
2.1.2. Board Advisors:
2.1.2.1. 60 MSS/MOF (Manpower Flight) or designated representative, representative from the
60 MSG and a representative from each augmentee user (augmented function). The chairperson
may appoint additional advisors as needed.
2.1.3. The ADRB will ensure all local, validated augmentation needs are met, ensure training is
conducted by users, meet at least annually, or more often as needed, to prioritize requirements
and identify available resources, approve augmentation requirements and exemptions, and task
groups to fill augmentation requirements.
2.2. The 60 MSG will:
2.2.1. Maintain control of all administrative functions associated with the augmentation duty
program, including maintaining TABFI 10-203. The MSG/CAG will keep the ADRB meeting
minutes and publish and distribute them to all applicable group commanders and ADP
coordinators within 10 business days after the ARB meeting.
2.2.2. Present requests for new augmentee requirements to the ARB, after they have been
validated and quantified by 60 MSS/MOF.
2.2.3. Provide updated augmenter roster, to the Installation Control Center (ICC), Emergency
Operations Center (EOC), Group Control Center’s, Group Augmentation Coordinators, and
Installation Deployment Readiness Center (IDRC) on a quarterly basis.
2.3. The 60 MSS/MOF will:
2.3.1. Review user requests for augmentation.
2.3.2. Validate manpower requirements to include number of personnel, skill requirements, and
grade requirements based on projected workload using 60 MSS/DPM Monthly Grade Roster.
Suggest options to keep personnel requirements as low as possible.
2.3.3. Identify future manpower changes/initiatives that may impact sourcing the requirements.
2.3.4. Make recommendation for ADRB.
2.3.5. Forward augmentation requests and calculations to 60 MSG/CAG.
2.3.6. The Military Personnel Flight (MPF) will provide monthly-automated Grade Rosters for
users (60 MSS/MOF) and tasked groups to help commanders manage resources.
2.5. Supported Commanders will:
2.5.1. Appoint an augmentation duty coordinator.
2.5.2. Coordinate with the 60 MSG/CAG and 60 MSS/MOF to validate augmenter
requirements. Before supported organizations request augmentation, every effort will be made to
source internally before asking for external wing support.
2.5.3. Ensure augmenters are issued all additional equipment required to perform augmentation
duties, including personal protective equipment and clothing, and incur all associated costs.
2.5.4. Provide annual training opportunities to ensure agumentee’s are current with applicable
augmentation duties.
2.6. Determine augmenter duties.
2.6.1. Organizations needing augmentation support will train augmentees and report current
training numbers to MSG/CAG for tracking of currency; units will incur all costs associated with
training that augmentee’s receive.
2.6.2. Develop and maintain an augmentation duty roster and training record (electronic or hard
copy) on each augmentee upon appointment.
2.6.3. Group and unit monitors will provide an updated roster to 60 MSG/CAG on a monthly
basis, or as changes occur with augmentees.
2.6.4. Supported organizations receiving augmentation during; exercises, inspections,
contingencies, emergencies, or wartime conditions, will brief all augmentees on the critical
information (CI) and countermeasures associated with the existing situation or conditions IAW
AFI 10-701, Operations Security.
2.7. Supporting Commanders will:
2.7.1. Release augmenters for training and when the augmentation program is activated.
2.7.2. Notify the activation authority when an identified augmentee is scheduled for deployment,
PCS/PCA. Provide the MSG/CAG a replacement name, contact info, clearance, and limiting
factors if there are any. (See Attachment 2)
2.7.3. Replace departed/departing augmentees when required by activation authority.
3. Establishing and implementing augmentation requirements.
3.1. Units requesting augmentation will need to submit a letter, signed by the unit commander,
addressed to the 60 MSG/CAG, detailing the request. The letter must contain the following
information: a description of the augmentee duty and how it fits into the parameters of the
augmentation duty program, justification of the augmentation request, how many augmentees are
requested, and any special rank, skill, or security clearance requirements.
3.1.1. Augmentation duty requests will be forwarded from the 60 MSG/CAG to 60 MSS/MOF
for workload validation and calculation of augmentee requirements.
3.1.2. 60 MSS/MOF will determine each participating base organizations augmentee
requirement by determining their fare share of the augmentee workload based on the most
current 60 MSS/DPM Monthly Grade Roster.
3.1.3. 60 MSS/MOF will forward the request, with recommended manpower requirements for
all participating base organizations to the 60 MSG/CAG for submission to the ADRB.
3.1.4. Replacements will be identified and trained NLT 30 days prior to the scheduled departure
date of an augmenter.
3.2. Augmenters will not deploy in their augmentation duties; however, they may be dispatched
from their home station to assist with off-base (or off-installation) emergencies whenever the use
of DOD personnel is properly authorized.
4. ADP Activation Aauthorities.
4.1. 60 AMW/XP ICC Executive Officers/Administrative Support: In response to real world
events, activation of the ICC is authority for 60 AMW/XP to activate ICC augmenters as
necessary via direct telecom, from a single shift to 24/7 operations. Selected augmenters will be
directed to inform their supervisors that they have been activated. An approved list of ICC
augmenters will be reviewed with group ADP coordinators in advance of an exercise or
inspection activity to identify those who will provide support to the ICC. Once the ICC is
operational, any further exercise augmentee requirements, to include 24-hour manning, will be
addressed directly to the group ADP monitors, as appropriate.
4.2. 60 SVS, Search and Recovery Team (SART):
4.2.1. Activation authority for the SART is the Incident Commander (IC) who will notify the
Services EOC rep who will in-turn notify the SART POC, who in turn will notify augmenters via
GCC’s and group ADP coordinators using the current roster associated with SART.
4.3. 60 SFS, Security Forces Augmentation:
4.3.1. The Threat Working Group will address the need for additional force protection measures,
and the 60 AMW/CC will direct the activation of SF augmenters as required to provide SFS
sufficient manpower to effectively maintain resource protection, personnel safety, and
installation security in the event of manpower intensive taskings to include, but not limited to,
OPLAN 8010, alternate TACC activation, natural disasters, and force protection condition
measures. Notification to the GCCs and group ADP coordinators to recall Security Forces
Augmenters will be done via email, phone calls to the group ADP monitors, and runners if
needed. The notification will include the number of augmenteers required by SFS from each
group based on the agreed upon fare share numbers at the ADRB.
4.3.2. 60 SFS will provide basic law enforcement and installation security training to all
augmentee’s IAW AFI 36-2225, Security Forces Training and Standardization Evaluation
Programs.
4.3.3. Units coordinators will ensure personnel are trained on the M-16 by scheduling
appointments through CATM.
4.3.4. Units will ensure personnel are trained on the operation of government vehicles to include
the operation of government vehicles on the flight line.
4.3.5. 60 SFS will provide and track Restricted Area Badges (RAB) for personnel not provided
at their primary unit pending whether or not they qualify for a security clearance. 60 SFS will
maintain RAB and issue to agumentee’s in the event of needed support for SFS.
4.4. 60 APS, Pallet Build-up:
4.4.1. The Installation Deployment Officer (IDO) will make the decision to activate the pallet
build-up augmenters. 60 AMW/IDO will notify the 60 APS UCC to recall pallet build-up
augmenters via GCC’s and group ADP coordinators.
4.5. 60 LRS, Installation Deployment Readiness Center:
4.5. 60 AMW Installation Deployment Officer (IDO) will make the decision to activate the
deployment control center in support of local generated exercises, wartime, emergency, and
humanitarian operations. 60 AMW/IDO will notify the ICC with the ICC with the required
number of augmentees in appropriate supporting positions.
5. Prescribed Forms: AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.


                                                    STEVEN J. ARQUIETTE, Colonel, USAF
                                                  Commander, 60th Air Mobility Wing (AMC)
                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION
References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness
AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty
AFMAN 33-363, Records Disposition Schedule
AFI 10-701, Operations Security (OPSEC)
AFI 36-2225, Security Forces Training and Standardization Evaluation Programs


Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADP-Augmentation Duty Program
ADRB-Augmentation Duty Review Board
AFMAN-Air Force Manual
AFPAM-Air Force Pamphlet
AFRIMS-Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC- Air Force Specialty Code
CAT-Crisis Action Team
DCC-Deployment Control Center
DCG-Disaster Control Group
EOC-Emergency Operations Center, formerly known as the DCG
IAW-In Accordance With
IC-Incident Commander
ICC-The Installation Control Center, formerly known as the CAT.
ICCCOM-Installation Control Center Commander or designated director, formerly known as
CATCOM.
IDO-Installation Deployment Officer
IDR-Installation Deployment Readiness Center, formerly known as the DCC.
MPF-Military Personnel Flight
OPR-Office of Primary Responsibility
RAB-Restricted Area Badges
SART-Search and Recovery Team
Terms
Augmenter—Personnel used in other than their assigned duties during exercise, contingency,
emergency, or wartime conditions in a particular assigned task. Assigned duties are those, which
are required by AFSC and are performed routinely. For example, an augmentee could be a
personnel specialist performing security forces duty during exercises.
Augmentation Duty Coordinator—The individual appointed within a unit that will receive
augmentees approved by the ADRB, and is responsible for monitoring, managing, and training
augmentees, and reporting the status of their programs to the ADRB.
Augmentation Duty Requirement — A validated manpower requirement during exercise,
contingency, emergency, or wartime conditions to be filled by available personnel resources.
Augmentation Duty Program—A mandatory program designed to meet the temporary
personnel shortages of local commanders caused by situations or conditions that require the
realignment of existing personnel resources during exercise, contingency, emergency, or wartime
conditions.
Tasking —A requirement for augmentation, validated by manpower.
User—An agency that has a validated manpower requirement to be augmented by another unit in
order to meet responsibilities during an exercise, contingency, emergency, or wartime
conditions.
                                   Attachment 2
                  AUGMENTATION DUTY PROGRAM LETTER

Figure A2.1. Example of Augmentation Duty Program Letter
                                         Attachment 3


                      <USER> AUGMENTATION DUTY PROGRAM


A3.1. OVERVIEW:           To provide <user> sufficient manpower to <description of duties
required>
A3.1.1. Users:
A3.1.2. Tasked Groups:
A3.1.3. Number of personnel required:
A3.1.4. 60 AMW/MO will determine each group’s fair share by fair share percentage and
requirements.
A3.2. REQUIREMENTS:
A3.2.1. Personnel must meet the requirements listed below in order to be assigned as an <user>
augmentee
A3.3. TRAINING:
A3.3.1 <user> will provide basic training to all augmentees IAW AFI xx-xxx.
A3.3.2 Units will ensure personnel are trained.

Table A3.1. EXAMPLE CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT LISTING
ITEM                                                       QUANTITY
A-3 BAG                                                           1
WEB BELT                                                          1
LBE OR TACTICAL VEST                                              1
HELMET                                                            1
FLAK VEST OR SECOND CHANCE BODY ARMOR                             1
*GAS MASK                                                         1
*INCLEMENT WEATHER GEAR                                           1
*RESTRICTED AREA BADGE                                            1
*DOD GOVERNMENT DRIVER’S LICENSE                                  1
*FLIGHTLINE DRIVER’S LICENSE                                      1


Note 1: Items without asterisks will be issued by <user>, as needed.
Note 2: Items with asterisks will be issued by the augmentee’s unit
