BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION 23-108
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                 21 JUNE 2011

                                                                          Materiel Management

                                                  VEHICLE ACCIDENT/ABUSE/INCIDENT




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available digitally on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 60 LRS/LGRV                                                       Certified by: 60 LRS/CC
                                                                    (Rebeccah L. Carter, Lt Col)
                                                                                        Pages: 9


This instruction implements AFPD 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground Transportation Vehicles,
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 23-302, Material Management, Vehicle Management, Air Force
Joint Manual (AFJMAN) 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Driver, and AFMAN 23-220,
Reports of Survey for Air Force Property. It outlines definitions, policy, and procedures for an
effective vehicle accident and abuse program with the visibility and emphasis placed at the unit
level and under the direct control of the unit commander. This instruction is applicable to all
persons operating Government Motor Vehicle or Equipment (GMV-GMV/E) or General
Services Administration (GSA) leased vehicles or equipment assigned to Travis Air Force Base
or its geographically separated units. This instruction does not apply to commercially leased
vehicles.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publications/forms
managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                           TRAVISAFBI23-108 21 JUNE 2011


1. Policy.
     1.1. If a GMV/GSA operator is involved in a GMV/GSA accident, he/she will summon
     either military or civilian law enforcement, as appropriate, to the scene of the accident and
     contact Wing Safety. The operator and/or the using organization will also request a copy of
     the law enforcement accident report. The GMV/GSA operator or the operator’s organization
     will also immediately contact the 60th Logistics Readiness Squadron (60 LRS), Vehicle
     Management Flight (LGRV), Vehicle Management and Analysis (VM&A) section to notify
     them of the accident and if necessary, request vehicle maintenance assistance. Wrecker
     assistance will be obtained through Vehicle Operations (60 LRS/LGRDDO).
     1.2. Upon receipt of the GMV/GSA accident report, Standard Form (SF) 91, Motor Vehicle
     Accident Report/60 AMW IMT 141, Ground Mishap Worksheet, the using organization will
     immediately forward a copy to 60 LRS/LGRV/VM&A. NOTE: If no accident report is
     obtained, the using organization will be responsible for repair costs.
        1.2.1. If the accident involves a privately owned vehicle, there is a mandatory
        requirement to complete the SF 91.
        1.2.2. All damages to a U-Drive-It vehicle discovered upon return to Vehicle Operations
        will be borne by the using organization returning the vehicle.
     1.3. The owning or using organizations found responsible for damages will reimburse
     LGRV for all costs for GSA vehicle accident and abuse repairs, to include contractor costs.
     Organizations will only be billed for the cost of parts if the accident/abuse is to an AF owned
     asset.
     1.4. Where responsibility cannot be determined, the owning organization will be responsible
     for the reimbursement. The using organization will investigate all damage not attributable to
     fair wear and tear IAW AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property.
     Examples of vehicle abuses are detailed in Attachment 2.
     1.5. If an organization disputes the accident or abuse liability, they must present their dispute
     in written format through the Commander, 60th Logistics Readiness Squadron (60 LRS/CC)
     to the Commander, 60th Mission Support Group (60 MSG/CC) within 10 working days of
     receipt of the Accident or Abuse Notification Letter. The 60 MSG/CC is the final decision
     authority for all vehicle accident or abuse disputes.
     1.6. Payment will be accomplished once the final costs are assessed. Costs will be
     reimbursed from the responsible organization’s O&M / TWCF account, using the AF FORM
     406 Miscellaneous Obligation / Reimbursement Document (MORD).                The Unit
     Commander/Resource Advisor of the responsible organization will place their appropriate
     accounting data on the AF FORM 406.
        1.6.1. The receiving organization, 60 LRS, will also place their appropriate accounting
        data on their AF FORM 406.
        1.6.2. The AF FORM 406 will be forwarded to 60th Comptroller Squadron (60
        CPTS/FMA) who will certify funds availability. All related funding document will be
        sent to DFAS-Limestone to process the reimbursement.
TRAVISAFBI23-108 21 JUNE 2011                                                                  3


   1.7. Full reimbursement will be made by the responsible organization regardless of any
   determination of pecuniary liability or reimbursement made by the operator to the
   government.
   1.8. GSA vehicle damages and abuse must be reported to the GSA Accident Control Center
   through 60 LRS/LGRV/VM&A. All damages other than “fair wear and tear” are a “Bill-
   Back” from GSA to Travis AFB and are a “Must-Pay” bill. All costs incurred by GSA to
   restore the vehicle to its original condition following an accident, abuse, or turn in will be
   borne by the using organization responsible for the damages. If responsibility for the
   damages cannot be determined, the owning organization will be responsible for
   reimbursement for the repairs. NOTE: Upon the turn in of a GSA vehicle, it must be in a
   condition suitable for resale and any GSA costs Billed Back to the wing to bring the vehicle
   up to that standard will be borne by the owning organization.
2. Procedures.
   2.1. 60 LRS/LGRV will:
      2.1.1. Identify and initially classify vehicle damage caused by accident, abuse, or
      incident.
      2.1.2. Maintain accident/abuse case files to track quantity and repair cost data.
      2.1.3. Track and provide costs to be reimbursed to 60th Comptroller Squadron (60
      CPTS/FMA) monthly.
   2.2. The 60 LRS/CC will issue a Letter of Accident or Abuse Notification (Attachment 3 or
   Attachment 4) to the Squadron Commander of the responsible organization with a copy of
   the accident report, repair work order (estimate or actual), and photos of the damage (if
   available).
   2.3. Responsible organizations will:
      2.3.1. If the GMV/GSA accident occurred on Travis AFB, the GMV/GSA operator will
      immediately call both the 60th Security Forces Squadron and Wing Safety to report the
      accident. If the accident occurs outside of Travis AFB, contact the applicable local law
      enforcement authority.
      2.3.2. If not done by the operator, obtain and forward a copy of the law enforcement
      accident report to 60 LRS/LGRV as soon as possible.
      2.3.3. Report the GMV/GSA accident to the 60 LRS/LGRV immediately. If it’s needed,
      wrecker assistance may be obtained through Vehicle Operations (60 LRS/LGRDDO).
      2.3.4. If the unit disputes liability for the damage (for GSA vehicles only), they must
      submit their disagreement in writing within 10 days to the 60 LRS/CC and 60 MSG/CC
      (IN TURN).
      2.3.5. In all cases of vehicle damage information regarding an accident, abuse, or
      incident involving a vehicle will require the appointment of an investigating official by
      the responsible unit. The investigating official will contact the Reports of Survey (ROS)
      office (60 LRS/LGLO) to obtain instructions on how to proceed with the investigation.
 4                                                          TRAVISAFBI23-108 21 JUNE 2011


     2.4. 60 CPTS/FMA will forward the financial documents to DFAS-OM for cost
     reimbursement from the responsible unit to the 60 LRS/LGRV account. This includes
     payment for GSA “Bill Backs” for vehicle accident and abuse repairs as well as any cost
     upon turn in of a vehicle to bring it up to a salable condition.
3. Definitions.
     3.1. Vehicle Fair Wear and Tear: The normal expected deterioration of a vehicle or
     equipment based on its age, usage, and life expectancy.
     3.2. Vehicle Accident: The result of a vehicle striking another vehicle or object.
     3.3. Vehicle Abuse: Normally considered damage caused by willful or negligent acts of
     improper operation or care. Abuses will be initially determined by 60 LRS/LGRV.
     Examples of vehicle abuses are detailed in Attachment 2.
     3.4. Vehicle Incident: Damage caused by acts of nature, natural disasters, mechanical failure,
     or other phenomenon that in no way could have been avoided by safe operation or adequate
     vehicle care during the period of non-use. Using organizations are not required to reimburse
     for damage caused by incidents (e.g. hail damage, ruptured lines not visible to the operator,
     etc.).
        3.4.1. Wind damage is not considered an act of nature.
     3.5. Vehicle Accident Report: A written report completed by law enforcement that details a
     vehicle accident and may assess responsibility for the accident. The AFJMAN-24-306,
     Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Driver and the California Vehicle Code (state law) requires
     law enforcement be summoned to a vehicle accident.
     3.6. Using Organization: The organization that was using the GMV/GSA vehicle at the time
     of the accident/abuse/incident.
     3.7. Owning Organization: The organization that is authorized and assigned the GMV/GSA
     vehicle.
     3.8. Responsible Organization: The organization that is ultimately determined to be
     responsible for reimbursements for damages due to a vehicle accident/abuse/turn in Bill-
     Back.




                                              JAMES C. VECHERY, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 60th Air Mobility Wing (AMC)
TRAVISAFBI23-108 21 JUNE 2011                                                       5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, 29 October 2007
AFPD 24-3, Operation and Use of Ground Transportation Vehicles, 6 September 2006
AFJMAN 24-306, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Driver, 27 August 1993
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
California Vehicle Code, 2010 edition
Adopted Forms
DD Form 518, Accident – Identification Card
Standard Form 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report, 1 Feb 1993
AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation / Reimbursement Document (MORD), 1 Jul 1984

Abbreviations and Acronyms
GMV—--Government Motor Vehicle, owned or leased
GMV/E—--Government Motor Vehicles/Equipment
GSA—--General Services Administration
O&M—--Operation and Maintenance
TWCF—--Transportation Working Capital Fund
VM&A—--Vehicle Management and Analysis
 6                                                          TRAVISAFBI23-108 21 JUNE 2011


                                          Attachment 2
                      EXAMPLES OF VEHICLE/EQUIPMENT ABUSE

NOTE: The examples below are not an all-inclusive list of vehicle abuse.
A2.1. Examples of vehicle/equipment abuse include:
     A2.1.1. Tampering with governors or distributors.
     A2.1.2. Operating vehicle/equipment with insufficient oils or coolants due to failure to check
     levels according to established requirements or the failure to monitor dash instrumentation.
     A2.1.3. Operating a vehicle with applied/dragging parking brakes.
     A2.1.4. Improper distribution or failure to secure loads properly in the cargo areas of
     vehicle/equipment or not following established loading/unloading procedures.
     A2.1.5. Using a vehicle/equipment for other than it’s intended or designed purpose (e.g., 6K
     F/L used to transport a 10,000 pound pallet or a bobtail tow-tractor used to transport
     passengers).
     A2.1.6. Failure to clean/maintain a vehicle’s interior/exterior to meet corrosion control and
     appearance requirements.
     A2.1.7. Unauthorized wiring, marking, modification, or the addition of special equipment
     in/on a vehicle/equipment asset is not allowed.
     A2.1.8. Vehicle/equipment being operated by an unqualified/untrained operator.
     A2.1.9. Tire wear beyond limits that will allow recapping (i.e., cord exposed).
     A2.1.10. The intentional destruction/disfigurement of a vehicle/equipment/interior/exterior.
     A2.1.11. Operation of a vehicle/equipment in conflict with published Department of Defense
     Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Air Force Occupational Safety and Health,
     Air Force regulations/instructions/manuals/technical orders, or California law concerning
     vehicle safety.
     A2.1.12. Damage resulting from improperly installed or broken tire chains.
     A2.1.13. Corrosion or oxidation caused by insufficient washing, waxing, or operator care.
     A2.1.14. Servicing the vehicle/equipment with improper fuel, oil, or other fluids.
     A2.1.15. Operating a vehicle/equipment with improperly inflated tires.
     A2.1.16. Failure to turn in a vehicle for scheduled maintenance before an overdue condition
     exists. Pre-approved rescheduling due to mission requirements is exempt.
     A2.1.17. Damage resulting from the operator or passenger failing to secure doors while
     opening or closing them in windy or gusty conditions.
     A2.1.18. Failing to come to a complete stop before reversing direction or placing the
     vehicle/equipment’s transmission gear selector in park before stopping.
TRAVISAFBI23-108 21 JUNE 2011                                                             7


  A2.1.19. Failure to report malfunctions, defects in or damage to a vehicle to Vehicle
  Management within 24 hours of discovery. A pre-approved delay of this action to satisfy
  immediate mission needs may be authorized.
  A2.1.20. Failure to operate vehicle or equipment on hard surfaces is not acceptable unless
  the asset is designed/mission required to do so.
  A2.1.21. Failure to report accident or abuse damage.
 8                                                         TRAVISAFBI23-108 21 JUNE 2011


                                         Attachment 3
         SAMPLE SUSPECTED ACCIDENT NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM

MEMORANDUM FOR (unit commander)
60 LRS/LGLOQ
FROM: 60 LRS/CC
350 Hangar Avenue
Travis AFB CA 94535-2631
SUBJECT: Notification of (GSA/GMV) Accident
1. The purpose of this letter is to inform you that on (date), vehicle (registration number)
(vehicle description) reported to the LRS/LGRV with damage to (damage description). The
LRS has classified the damage as a suspected accident, not attributable to fair wear and tear. As
a result, your organization is required to investigate and process an accident case IAW TAFBI
23-108, Vehicle Accidents/Abuse/Incident. This suspected accident has been assigned Case
#LGRV (case number). The work order cost of repairs for parts and labor is $(cost). (The
following is to be added if it involves an AF owned asset): however, the unit will only be liable
for the cost of parts, currently $(cost).
2. All vehicle damage cases require the unit commander to appoint a Report of Survey (ROS)
Investigating Officer to document the facts in the case, determine probable cause, make a
liability recommendation, and present recommendations to prevent future occurrences.
Investigating Officers are required to contact the Base ROS Program Manager at 424-0516 prior
to commencing their investigation to receive a procedural briefing.
3. If the investigation confirms the “suspected accident or abuse”, as determined by the ROS
Approving Authority, the operator’s organization will reimburse 60 LRS for costs cited using the
AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document (MORD). The MORD must
be established under EEIC 56980.
4. This vehicle will be repaired and returned to your organization. If you require additional
information, please contact (name) at 424-2290.



(LRS COMMANDER SIGNATURE BLOCK)


 Attachments:
1. 60 AMW IMT 141
2. Vendor Estimate of Repair
3. Photos of Vehicle
TRAVISAFBI23-108 21 JUNE 2011                                                                     9


                                          Attachment 4
           SAMPLE SUSPECTED ABUSE NOTIFICATION MEMORANDUM

MEMORANDUM FOR (Unit Commander)
60 LRS/LGLOQ
FROM: 60 LRS/CC
350 Hangar Avenue
Travis AFB CA 94535-2631
SUBJECT: Notification of (GSA/GMV) Vehicle Abuse
1. The purpose of this letter is to inform you that on (date), vehicle (registration number)
(vehicle description) reported to the LRS/LGRV with damage to (description of damage). The
LRS has classified the damage as a suspected abuse, not attributable to fair wear and tear. As a
result, your organization is required to investigate and process an abuse case IAW TAFBI 23-
108, Vehicle Accidents/Abuse/Incident. This suspected abuse has been assigned Case #LGRV
(case number). The cost of repairs for parts and labor is $(cost). (The following is to be added if
it involves an AF owned asset): however, the unit will only be liable for the cost of parts,
currently $(cost).
2. All vehicle damage cases require the unit commander to appoint a Report of Survey (ROS)
Investigating Officer to document the facts in the case, determine probable cause, make a
liability recommendation, and present recommendations to prevent future occurrences.
Investigating Officers are required to contact the Base ROS Program Manager at 424-0516 prior
to commencing their investigation to receive a procedural briefing.
3. If the investigation confirms the “suspected accident or abuse”, as determined by the ROS
Approving Authority, the operator’s organization will reimburse 60 LRS for costs cited using the
AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document (MORD). The MORD
must be established under EEIC 56980.
4. This vehicle has been repaired and returned to your organization. If you require additional
information, please contact (name) at 424-2290.




(LRS COMMANDER SIGNATURE BLOCK)



Attachments:
1. 60 AMW IMT 141
2. Vendor Estimate of Repair
3. Photos of Vehicle
