BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                     TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                            INSTRUCTION 33-306
                                                                                          6 JANUARY 2006

                                                         Communications and Information Management

                                                                        STAFF SUMMARY SHEETS,
                                                                  EVALUATIONS AND DECORATIONS

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 60 AMW/CCE (Captain Thad Middleton)                                       Certified by: 60 AMW/CCE
                                                                                   (Major Brendan Garrity)
                                                                                                    Pages: 6
                                                                                             Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 33-2, Information Protection, and it establishes policies and proce-
dures for administering the wing suspense tracking program for AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet
(SSS), Evaluations, and Decorations (to include all wing-level awards). It prescribes how to submit
packages, timelines on submissions, and overall program management. The procedures ensure Team
Travis meets its internal suspenses and external taskings. Tenant units will use this instruction for process-
ing correspondence to the wing for approval/signature. “Maintain and dispose of records according to the
Air Force Records Disposition Schedule, accessible on-line at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.”


1. General.
   1.1. Definition. A suspense is a required task accomplished when directed. It is normally assigned by
   MAJCOM or within the wing to include, Military Personnel Flight (MPF).
   1.2. Groups/Squadrons will use their own internal tracking processes prior to submitting correspon-
   dence to the wing. The wing will track incoming correspondence, using the wing database tracking
   product.

2. Tasking or Suspenses.
   2.1. Base taskings are generally initiated by Air Mobility Command, 18 AF/CC, 60 AMW/CC, and
   Military Personnel Flight products. The groups will not task the wing.

3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. The Wing Commander is the overall tasking program manager. However, he/she can delegate
   taskings to the Vice Commander, the Director of Staff and his/her executive officer(s)—(CCE).
       3.1.1. Wing Executive Officers (60 AMW/CCE): Normally, once the tasking has been given the
       CCE will generate an e-mail or telecom to all group or tenant agencies establishing the require-
2                                                               TRAVISAFBI33-306 6 JANUARY 2006


       ments and suspense. The suspense will be entered into the wing CCE internal tasking suspense
       system (ITSS). Taskings will normally be sent to the Group CCE organizational email account.
       Group CCEs will monitor their respective CCE organizational email accounts and keep the distri-
       bution list up to date.
       3.1.2. Taskings from HHQ will normally arrive via e-mail or Defense Messaging Service (DMS).
       The CCE will assign the tasking and suspense to the appropriate agency using email and enter the
       tasking into ITSS the internal tasking suspense system.
       3.1.3. Once the suspense has been established, the CCE will manage the wing’s suspense until
       final.
       3.1.4. The CCE will meet with the Group CCEs on an as needed basis.
       3.1.5. CCE will oversee the tracking of all suspenses.
    3.2. Wing Executive Services (60 AMW/CCEA) will:
       3.2.1. Manage the tracking database to ensure 100 percent of performance reports, decorations,
       and staff summary sheets (SSS) are tracked once they arrives at the wing.
       3.2.2. Provide immediate feedback when feasible to 60 AMW/CCE and group counterparts.
       3.2.3. Process incoming DMS traffic on a daily basis and send electronic word documents to the
       predetermined drive setup by 60 AMW/CCE. Additionally, the 60 AMW/CCEA will print hard
       copies, highlight information and place in the daily Read File for leadership to direct actions.
       3.2.4. Once products are received at the wing admin section, the 60 AMW/CCEA personnel will
       enter the correspondence into the database. This will occur as needed throughout the day to ensure
       a smooth flow of information.
       3.2.5. Annotate the 60 AMW Form 510 with the tracking number for evaluations/decorations and
       stamp all SSS using our tracking number process. 60 AMW/CCEA will then hand carry the pack-
       ages into the selected 60 AMW/CCE inbox. All enlisted correspondence will be sent to the 60
       AMW/CCC prior to the 60 AMW/CCE for coordination/review.
       3.2.6. The database will be copied and placed onto the designated server area on the LAN for
       read/review only access on a daily basis.
       3.2.7. Annotate the 60 AMW Form 510 if evaluations are late to the wing and update the database
       by checking the late button (see paragraph 5., suspense deadlines).
       3.2.8. Extract data and send an e-mail on a daily basis using Outlook distro list (60 AMW MPF
       Tracker) located on the GAL ensuring the groups are aware of the status of all evaluations and
       decorations.
NOTE: If your organizational box does not receive the daily email, contact 60 AMW Wing Administra-
tion distribution list and the organizational box will be added to the 60 AMW MPF Tracker.
    3.3. Wing Commander’s Action Group (60 AMW/CCX) will:
       3.3.1. Handle all Wing Commander’s special programs. Normally base/wing programs and
       projects are given to CCX for administration and oversight. Once the tasking has been given CCX
       will generate an e-mail or telecom to all group or tenant agencies establishing the requirements
       and suspense. The suspense will be tracked by the CCX office. Taskings will normally be sent to
TRAVISAFBI33-306 6 JANUARY 2006                                                                         3


      the Group CCE organizational email account. Group CCEs will monitor their respective CCE
      organizational email accounts and keep the distribution list up to date.
      3.3.2. Once the suspense or project has been established, CCX will manage and interface with the
      POCs until the tasking is complete.
      3.3.3. CCX will coordinate with CCE and CCS to ensure that the Wing Commander and or Vice
      Commander are continuously updated on progress of projects, programs, suspenses, or taskings
      originating from the CCX office.
      3.3.4. CCX will act as the liaison between wing project officers and the Wing Commander and or
      Vice Commander on all projects, programs, suspenses, or taskings originating from the CCX
      office.
   3.4. Wing Commander Secretary (60 AMW/CCS) will:
      3.4.1. Update the 60 AMW/CV/CC calendars as necessary when a SSS requests 60 AMW/CV/
      CC attendance or presentation.
   3.5. Group Command Section:
      3.5.1. Will ensure all wing suspenses are met.
      3.5.2. Will brief all squadrons on chain of command practices for tracking inquiries. Squadrons
      will first contact the groups for suspense tracking inquiries, and then the group can contact 60
      AMW/CCEA. Additionally, the wing will go through the groups not the squadrons for suspenses.
      3.5.3. Set up tracking mechanisms to ensure suspenses are met.
      3.5.4. Ensure a representative hand carries correspondence to the 60 AMW/CCEA for data entry.
      3.5.5. Ensure all packages are correctly formatted/prepared for wing review (see paragraph 4.).
      3.5.6. Ensure their organizational email boxes are up to date.
      3.5.7. Ensure the squadrons fund all folders, papers, etc. for package preparation.
      3.5.8. Ensure all correspondence is completed in accordance with AFP 33-337, Tongue and Quill,
      AFMAN 33-326, Official Communications, and thoroughly proofread and reviewed by CCs,
      Superintendents, Secretaries, etc., prior to submission to the wing.
      3.5.9. If the correspondence is returned (kick back), ensure all changes are made and the format is
      reviewed (and that the annotated copy is in the folder) prior to resubmitting to the wing.
   3.6. Military Personnel Flight:
      3.6.1. Will pickup evaluations and decorations from the CCEA at least daily.
      3.6.2. Contact CCEA for distribution list updates.
      3.6.3. Will work with CCE to reconcile evaluations and decorations slides prior to the Wing Stand
      Up.

4. Package Preparation.
4                                                              TRAVISAFBI33-306 6 JANUARY 2006


    4.1. All packages will be coded by submitting colored folders. The following packages will be sent to
    the wing for tracking: SSS, Evaluations, and Decorations (the AMW Form 510, Wing Coordination
    Sheet will be attached to evaluations/decorations/awards).
    4.2. SSS will be submitted using a green folder, see AFMAN 33-326 for proper SSS packaging. The
    SSS will be stapled/connected to the package. All annual/special awards, letters of appreciation,
    memos, plans, etc will be in SSS format. NOTE: Retirement certificates will be hand carried by MPF
    using the large dark blue folder with the SSS attached.
       4.2.1. All SSS which include memorandums requiring wing leadership signatures will include an
       electronic copy of the documents to be signed.
    4.3. Performance Reports will be submitted using gray folders for enlisted, yellow folders for officers
    Major and below, and red folders for officers Lieutenant Colonel and above. The organization (unit/
    squadron/group) will be required to include a 60 AMW Fact Sheet (Attachment 4) for Officer Perfor-
    mance Reports (OPRs) on Captains (two (2) years BTZ or less), Majors, and any Lieutenant or Cap-
    tain that has the Wg/CC as the additional rater. You will be required to include an 18 AF Fact sheet for
    OPRs on Lieutenant Colonels and above. You need to include the following documents: Current
    report, reports/products generated by AFPC, last three OPRs, Performance Report Notice, 60 AMW
    Fact Sheet and/or 18 AF Fact Sheet. The completed 60 AMW Form 510 will be stapled on the outside
    of the folder.
    4.4. Decorations will be submitted using the light blue folder (except Air Medals and Aerial Achieve-
    ment Medals which use dark blue folders) with the attached 60 AMW Form 510.

5. Suspense Deadlines.
    5.1. Quarterly/Annual/Special Awards and Trophies: The CCC handles the Base Awards Program and
    will send e-mails out for upcoming suspenses. All quarterly/annual enlisted and officer awards are
    administered and tracked by the CCC (while informing CCE). The CCE is responsible for the special
    awards and trophies program. Awards are submitted by SSS. Depending on level of the special award/
    trophy, the CCE will determine if Fed Ex will be used to submit to HHQ.
    5.2. If the groups suspense is near its deadline, ensure the folder is annotated and CCEA notified. Best
    method is one-on-one communication. Highlight the POC and phone number for pickup. If requested,
    the CCEA will contact you once the package has been signed/approved.
    5.3. Performance Reports. Most officers and SNCO reports requiring senior rater/reviewer endorse-
    ment are due no later than 15 days after close out (c/o). Those reports going to 18 AF, Lt Col/Col, are
    due to the wing on the day of close out. All performance reports are due to MPF no later than 30 days
    after close out.
    5.4. Decorations: The 18 AF and 60 AMW Goal is to “pin ‘em where you win ‘em”. All Retirement,
    Separation, and PCS decorations need to be submitted no later than 30 days prior to the ceremony or
    event. If not, the member will most likely be awarded at their next unit. All retirees will be presented
    their award at their ceremony. Therefore, it is crucial to track all upcoming retirement packages and
    ensure their awards are submitted within their retirement parameters.
    5.5. All kickbacks should be returned to the Wing NLT three (3) duty days after kickback. Reports
    going to 18 AF should be returned on the same day they are kicked back.
TRAVISAFBI33-306 6 JANUARY 2006                                                                          5


6. Wing Points of Contact (POCs).
   6.1. The wing will often request POCs to manage particular projects or distinguished visitors. It is the
   responsibility of these POCs to ensure the wing leadership is kept informed of the status of their
   project as required. The POC is also required to work with CCX and CCP for all projects to accom-
   plish appropriate POC checklist. The POC will present a SSS to the wing documenting their project
   no later than 1 week prior to the event or visit. This deadline may be moved forward by wing CCE as
   conditions require. The SSS, as a minimum, will include an overview, itinerary, invitee list and event
   brief (if Wg/CC/CV attendance is requested). If there is any question on the documentation required,
   contact the wing CCE.

7. Special Events.
   7.1. Organizations that request the Wg/CC/CV attend a special event are required to submit a SSS
   containing an event brief no later than 1 week prior to the event. A copy of the event brief can be
   downloaded from the wing website.

8. Records Management.
   8.1. File in accordance with AFM 33-332, Records Management Program, and dispose of documents
   in accordance with the Records Disposition Schedule, located in Web Records Information Manage-
   ment System.

9. Forms Prescribed. 60 AMW Form 510, Wing Coordination Sheet.

10. Forms Adopted. AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet



                                               LYN D. SHERLOCK, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander
6                                                      TRAVISAFBI33-306 6 JANUARY 2006


                                        Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-2, Information Protection
AFMAN 33-326, Official Communications
AFMAN 33-332, Records Management Program
AFH 33-337, The Tongue and Quill
18 AF, Performance Report Fact Sheet
60 AMW, Fact Sheet
