BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                     TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                            INSTRUCTION 32-103
                                                                                             25 JULY 2002
                                                                          Certified Current on 13 July 2012
                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                              REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 60 CES/CEOEQ (Mr. Wendell F. Brown)               Certified by: 60 CES/CC (Lt Col Mark A. Correll)
Supersedes TAFBI 32-103, 15 October 1995                                                       Pages: 6
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management. It establishes policies, responsi-
bilities and procedures governing the collection and disposal of refuse at Travis AFB. It pertains to all per-
sonnel assigned or attached to Travis AFB.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Publication has been updated to reflect minor changes in the current Travis AFB Refuse Contract. Con-
tractor furnished containers are the only containers authorize for use in housing. Large bulky household
items must be scheduled for pickup by calling the contractor before being placed out for pickup. The con-
tractor will not pickup televisions or computer monitors. Remove containers from the street the same day
they are emptied by the contractor. A bar ( | ) indicates a change since the last edition.


1. Responsibilities:
   1.1. Base Civil Engineer will:
       1.1.1. Establish, review, and adjust collection routes and pickup stations for refuse.
       1.1.2. Inspect and administer contracts for refuse collection from family housing units.
       1.1.3. Inspect and administer contracts for refuse collection from base industrial areas and dining
       facilities.
   1.2. Users will:
       1.2.1. Delegate within their activity responsibility to personnel for placing refuse in authorized
       containers for collection.
       1.2.2. Enforce segregation and salvage rules.
   1.3. Commander, 60th Aeromedical Staging Flight will:
2                                                                   TRAVISAFBI32-103 25 JULY 2002


       1.3.1. Be responsible for removal of medical wastes and their safe disposal in existing medical
       incinerator from air evacuation aircraft.
    1.4. Commander, 60th Aerial Port Squadron will:
       1.4.1. Be responsible for removal of restricted wastes from overseas aircraft, ensuring this waste
       remains segregated from locally generated waste, and is disposed of in a separate autoclave
       funded and maintained by the Operations Group.

2. General Requirements and Procedures, Non-Military Family Housing:
    2.1. All refuse will be placed in refuse collection containers with salvageable material segregated and
    delivered to DRMO by discarding activities except as otherwise indicated.
    2.2. Paper, obsolete forms and publications, newspapers, books, magazines, and outdated maps will
    be placed in an appropriate recycling container by the discarding activity.
    2.3. Carbon paper or paper with carbon inserts will be stored in secured plastic bags or boxes and
    placed in the trash containers for collection.
    2.4. Cardboard cartons and cardboard that cannot be utilized locally shall be collapsed and placed in
    cardboard recycle container.
    2.5. Waxed, glazed, greased, asphalt, oil treated or tarred material will be placed in the trash contain-
    ers for collection. Cartons will be collapsed.
    2.6. Kitchen waste consisting of clear and rough cooked grease and waste from frying fats will be
    placed in containers designated for that purpose and kept free of foreign matter. Trap grease contain-
    ing foreign matter will be kept in separate containers. Delivery to DRMO or other disposal office
    activity or other disposal action will be made by the generating activity.
    2.7. All non-usable lumber will be separated from usable. Usable lumber will be delivered to DRMO
    by the generating activity if no requirement exists for reuse within the organization. Non-usable lum-
    ber, i.e., badly cracked, warped or damaged lumber, will be delivered to the base recycling facility,
    Building 741 by the generating activity for inspection. Usable pallets will be separated from
    non-usable pallets. Usable pallets will be sent to the base recycling facility, Building 741, only when
    no base requirement exists for pallets.
    2.8. Scrap ferrous and nonferrous metals will be segregated by the generating activity by type and
    will not be commingled when delivered to DRMO, Building 724.
       2.8.1. Scrap ferrous types for segregation purposes are as follows:
           2.8.1.1. Prepared heavy steel scrap is iron and/or steel scrap, 1/8 inch and more in thickness
           with no length and width restrictions.
           2.8.1.2. Unprepared heavy steel scrap is iron and/or steel scrap 1/8 inch or more in thickness
           with no length and width restrictions.
       2.8.2. Nonferrous types for segregation are as follows:
           2.8.2.1. Copper (copper clippings, copper pipe and tubing, copper plates and pieces, copper
           wire and segments) must be free of hair or burned wire which is brittle.
           2.8.2.2. Copper wire and cable (consists of tinned and untinned copper wire, cable and pieces
TRAVISAFBI32-103 25 JULY 2002                                                                            3


          covered with rubber, plastic, paint, enamel, fabric, and other insulation) must be free of steel
          armored and other metallically armored material, asbestos covering and porcelain.
          2.8.2.3. Brass - all types.
          2.8.2.4. Aluminum:
              2.8.2.4.1. Aluminum clippings and solids and mixed old alloy sheet must be free of iron,
              dirt, oil, grease, hair wire, screen and any other foreign substance.
              2.8.2.4.2. Aluminum, consisting of wrecked aircraft and irony aluminum. Examples are
              wreckage of aircraft, residue of aircraft after reclamation, obsolete aircraft, rejected air-
              frames, etc., when such material contains aluminum.
          2.8.2.5. Lead - all types.
          2.8.2.6. Stainless steel - nonmagnetic only.
      2.8.3. High temperature, strategic and critical alloys:
          2.8.3.1. The segregation of high temperature alloys and/or critical alloys depends on proper
          segregation at the source. Identification and segregation can only be accomplished by means
          of a part number. Acid testing will also identify the metal content.
          2.8.3.2. Metals not segregated in accordance with these provisions will be returned to the gen-
          erating activity for segregation as required.
      2.8.4. Ferrous, nonferrous, and high temperature metals will be listed separately on an authorized
      turn-in document prior to turn-in to DRMO.
   2.9. Rags, burlap, felt, rubber, canvas, clean excelsior, and other materials, which may have salvage-
   able value, will be disposed of in the same manner as scrap metal.

3. Disposal of Salvageable Materials, Other Than Familiy Housing:
   3.1. Discarding units will deliver all salvageable materials to DRMO. All materials will be segregated
   by the generating activity before delivery to DRMO.
   3.2. Refuse collected by activities other than those under the control of the Base Civil Engineer will
   not be accepted at the sanitary fill unless first inspected by personnel at DRMO.
   3.3. A trained salvageable technician will inspect all such materials to ensure no salvageable or reus-
   able items are included in the refuse.
   3.4. When it is determined that no salvageable materials or residue are included, the technician will
   issue an inspection slip authorizing the vehicle to proceed to the sanitary fill.
   3.5. Salvageable material will be accepted by DRMO when segregated as prescribed herein. An
   authorized turn-in document (DD Form 1348-1A, Issue/Release Receipt Document) will accompany
   all materials other than cardboard, shredable paper and lumber. Scrap property delivered by Base Civil
   Engineer personnel to the DRMO will be accompanied by DD Form 1348-1A.

4. Refuse Collection for Family Housing Units:
   4.1. The following procedures will apply within family housing:
4                                                                  TRAVISAFBI32-103 25 JULY 2002


       4.1.1. Garbage, Green Waste and Recycling containers other than the contractor furnished con-
       tainers shall not be used.
       4.1.2. Green waste refuse such as shrubbery, trimmings and branches shall be taken to the base
       recycling facility, Building 741 or bundled separately from other refuse for pick up by the contrac-
       tor. Bundles shall be no longer than three foot lengths and no larger than 18 inches in diameter.
       4.1.3. Large bulk items such as, but not limited to furniture, appliances, etc., must be scheduled
       for pickup by calling the contractor before being placed out for pickup. The contractor will not
       pick up televisions and computer monitors.
       4.1.4. Contractor is responsible to pickup spillage around totters, front loaders, debris boxes and
       refuse next to totters which is caused by the contractor while accepting, collecting, handling, or
       disposing of refuse.
       4.1.5. Housing residents are responsible to police areas around or near refuse containers.
       4.1.6. Housing residents are required to remove their containers from the street the same day they
       are emptied.
       4.1.7. Housing residents are required to recycle all materials in accordance with Environmental
       Management policy and guidance. Contractor will not empty any garbage or green waste con-
       tainer when recyclable materials are found.
       4.1.8. Complaints such as missed pickups, scattered waste material, or other discrepancies can be
       registered by calling, Maintenance Engineering, Quality Assurance Personnel (QAP).

5. Refuse Collection for Base Industrial Areas and Dining Facilities:
    5.1. Refuse collection is currently under contract. Complaints such as missed pickups, scattered waste
    material, or other discrepancies can be registered by calling Maintenance Engineering QAP.

6. Use of Dumpster Containers:
    6.1. The dumpsters situated on base are strictly for refuse generated on base by base personnel.
    Administrative action will be taken against personnel utilizing these cans for off-base refuse, military
    family housing refuse, or non-approved contractor refuse.

7. Dumpster Container Scavenging:
    7.1. Scavenging in dumpsters for saleable or salvageable items is strictly prohibited, and administra-
    tive action will be taken against any person attempting such action.

8. Terms:
    8.1. Refuse: Garbage, debris, rubbish, and solid market industrial wastes. Not included are sewage
    and liquid industrial waste.
    8.2. Garbage: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from handling, preparation, cooking
    and consumption of food. Edible or hog-food garbage is that part of waste food segregated for sale.
    8.3. Debris: Both combustible and noncombustible wastes, materials resulting from construction or
    maintenance and repair work, leaves, and tree trimmings.
TRAVISAFBI32-103 25 JULY 2002                                                                             5


   8.4. Rubbish: A variety of combustible and noncombustible wastes such as paper, boxes, glass and
   crockery, metals and lumber scrap, tin cans, grease, bones and meat trimmings.
   8.5. Salvage or saleable items: Items which are reclaimable materials or have sales value and are not
   subject to property accountability.
   8.6. Pick-up Station: Designated locations where refuse may be conveniently and efficiently assem-
   bled and stored in containers for collection.
   8.7. Residue: Materials, parts, etc., remaining after reclamation has been accomplished.
   8.8. Restricted wastes from overseas aircraft: All wood or wood products infested with termites or
   other injurious pests; all incinerable material or items which are denied entry into the United States by
   the Department of Agriculture or other competent authority (generally fruit, vegetables, flowers,
   plants, straw packing, lunch residues, and other wastes generated on aircraft, together with additional
   medical wastes from air evacuation aircraft).

9. Adopted Forms: DD Form 1348-1A, Issue/Release Receipt Document.



                                                     DENNIS M. MCCARTHY, Colonel, USAF
                                                     Director, Wing Staff
6                                                     TRAVISAFBI32-103 25 JULY 2002


                                       Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCE AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force policy directive
DRMO—Defense Reutilization and Marketing Office
