BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                  INSTRUCTION 91-105


                                                                            25 FEBRUARY 2009

                                                                                              Safety

                                                TRAINING EXERCISES WITH EXPLOSIVES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 60AMW/SEW                                                        Certified by: 60AMW/SE
                                                                           (Lt Col Jeffrey Pierce)
Supersedes: TRAVISAFBI91-105, 1 February 2003                                          Pages: 13

This instruction implements AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs. It establishes the Explosives,
Firearms, and Hazardous Materials (HM) Transportation Safety Programs for Travis Air Force
Base in accordance with AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards. It applies to all 60th Air
Mobility Wing, tenant, reserve activities, and personnel assigned or attached to Travis AFB.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: This revision incorporates updates of current military verbiage throughout the
document, added simunition requirements, the term “Base X” was removed, and travel routes in
paragraph 8.12 were redefined.

1. General.
1.1. This instruction outlines procedures for the use of explosive items used in training
exercises. The use of explosive items during training exercises or other types of exercises
2                                                   TRAVISAFBI91-105 25 FEBRUARY 2009

involving the use of explosives must be outlined in an exercise plan letter or an operating
instruction (OI) developed in accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 91-201. This instruction, in
conjunction with the applicable references listed will be used for conducting training of
personnel and planning of combat defense field training exercises. A copy of this instruction will
be available at the exercise site.
1.1.1. Commanders and supervisors are responsible for ensuring personnel are properly trained,
exercises are thoroughly planned, and requirements are stringently complied with. Individuals
are responsible for full compliance with all instructions given.
2. General Safety Requirements.
2.1. Explosives will be handled, transported, and used only by trained personnel in the task to be
performed.
2.1.1. Explosives will not be tumbled, thrown, dropped, or handled in a rough manner.
2.1.2. No attempt will be made to disassemble, modify, or alter explosive items; or to use in a
manner other than their intended purpose.
2.1.3. If abnormal conditions relating to the safe configuration of an explosive item are noted, no
attempt will be made to use or correct the condition. Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD)
assistance will be required.
2.1.4. Explosive items will be stored and transported in their storage and shipping container.
2.1.5. Only the quantity of munitions necessary for a specific operation will be drawn from
storage. This will be identified in the exercise plan IAW paragraph 3.
2.1.6. A pre-exercise safety briefing will be conducted for all personnel before deployment to
the exercise site. Exercise plans, developed IAW paragraph 3, will identify specific times,
locations, and briefer. The briefing must include the following as a minimum (See Attachment
4 for example):
2.1.6.1. Hazards and precautions for the handling and use of the explosives involved.
2.1.6.2. Range/exercise area safety criteria.
2.1.6.3. Procedures for handling of dud or misfired munitions.
2.1.6.4. Procedures to ensure the control and accountability of munitions.
2.1.6.5. Range/exercise area clean-up requirements and procedures.
2.1.7. A suitable number of appropriate fire extinguishers will be available in areas where
grenades, simulators, and flares are used.
2.1.8. Individuals armed with live ammunition IAW AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by
Air Force Personnel, will not participate in the exercise scenario except in an advisory or trainer
capacity. Weapons will be loaded IAW AFI 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Procedures, at
an approved clearing barrel.
2.1.9. A minimum of at least one communications device must be readily available in case of
emergency. This device must be in working order and must be tested immediately before using
any explosive item. A communications link must be established.
2.1.10. In the event of an emergency, the exercise scenario will be stopped, all weapons will be
safed, and personnel will await instructions from appropriate supervisory personnel.
TRAVISAFBI91-105 25 FEBRUARY 2009                                                         3

2.1.11. Notify EOD via Command Post immediately when a munitions malfunctions (dud).
3. Exercise Planning.
3.1. An exercise plan will be developed before each exercise (preferably 30 days) by the agency
having primary responsibility (OPR). The plan will be coordinated with each agency (60
EMS/MXMW; Munitions, 60 CES/CED; EOD, 60 CES/CEF; Fire Chief, 60 SFS/CSC; Law
enforcement, 60 AMW/SEW Wing Weapon Safety and 60 OSS/OSA; Airfield Manager) prior to
being signed by the OPR and 60 AMW/CC or designated representative. The plan format
outlined in (Attachment 2) can be used for this purpose. Other formats may be used provided
all information reflected in the sample is included.
3.2. Exercise plans will be prepared by the exercise OPR. The OPR and the Wing
Weapon Safety Manager will maintain a copy.
3.3. When accomplishing the exercise plan, compile a detailed list of explosives and weapons
authorized for use in the exercise. The installation commander or his designated representative
(at the base where the exercise will take place) must approve the list.
3.4. Include safety personnel in the training and exercise planning.
4. Requisition of Munitions.
4.1. Once munitions requirements are identified, the OPR will coordinate through 60
EMS/MXMW to ensure training munitions are available. The specific munitions, persons
authorized or designated to draw munitions, and the scheduled pickup date/time will be included
in the exercise plan IAW paragraph 3.
5. Munitions Accounting and Control.
5.1. Explosive training items, although normally containing comparatively small amounts of
explosive material, can be extremely hazardous if not properly handled and used. Stringent
control and accountability are essential to ensure they do not fall into the wrong hands or are
used in an unauthorized manner. Experience has shown those items inadvertently left on training
range/exercise areas or taken to quarters and used for pranks or experimentation can result in
serious mishaps.
5.2. Accurate recording of munitions issued and expended by individuals will be accomplished
as follows:
5.2.1. Munitions Issue/Turn-in Log. The individual designated to draw the munitions will make
aphysical inventory before departing the pickup point. The munitions custodian should use an
AF Form 3126, General Purpose Form, or a locally designed form to record issue of munitions
to individuals at the range/exercise site. The quantity expended and turned in will be recorded at
the termination of the exercise. Discrepancies in accountability will be resolved before departing
the range/exercise area.
5.2.2. Individuals deploying Booby-trap Simulators and M49A1 Trip Surface Flares will record
the location of each simulator and flare. At the end of the exercise, inspect these areas
thoroughly and collect any remaining residue. Take the residue to 60 EMS/MXMW for
disposition.
6. Training for Simulators and Smoke Producing Munitions.
6.1. Unit commanders are responsible for ensuring all personnel who handle, transport, or use
simulators and smoke producing munitions are properly trained.
4                                                   TRAVISAFBI91-105 25 FEBRUARY 2009

6.2. The following applies to the use of these devices during exercises and training:
6.2.1. Only US Air Force stock listed items are authorized for use.
6.2.2. Only trained personnel can prepare and activate these devices. Explosives Ordnance
Disposal (EOD) will provide training on an annual basis to personnel whose duties require them
to initiate training simulators or smoke producing munitions. It is the responsibility of the user
organization to request training and maintain training documentation on an AF Form 55,
Employee Safety and Health Record, AF Form 623, On-the-Job Training Record, or Certificate
of Training.
6.2.3. Personnel requiring training will call EOD Training Section to schedule training. On the
day of training, personnel will report to EOD with a completed AF Form 483, Certificate of
Competency. A control number will be assigned to the Certificate of Competency card by EOD
after successfully completing the training.
6.2.4. Units requesting training will provide a minimum of two ground burst simulators and one
smoke grenade for each individual requiring training. Additionally, the unit will provide one of
each type munitions for EOD instructor to use as a demonstration training aid.
6.3. Minimum distances for explosive simulators.
6.3.1. Prior to functioning any simulator or smoke producing explosives device, clear all
combustible material a minimum of 10 feet.
6.3.2. Personnel or vehicle: Maintain a minimum of 125 feet separation. Personnel who initiate
these munitions may be closer than 125 feet, but they should be as close to 125 feet away as
possible and have their back to the munitions at detonation.
6.3.3. Facilities without facing window: Maintain a minimum separation of 100 feet.
6.3.4. Facilities with facing window: Maintain a separation of 200 feet.
6.3.5. Hardened facilities, including hardened aircraft shelters: Maintain minimum separation of
50 feet.
6.3.6. Bulk petroleum, oil, and lubricant storage: Maintain a minimum separation of 200 feet.
6.3.7. Aircraft in the open: Maintain a minimum separation of 100 feet or 200 feet if aircraft are
explosives loaded.
6.3.8. Explosives operating locations, holding areas, open storage areas or butler-type storage
facilities: Maintain a minimum separation of 200 feet.
6.3.9. Above ground magazines of block, brick, or concrete construction and from earth covered
magazines: Maintain a minimum separation of 50 feet.
6.3.10. Smoke from grenades may be toxic in high concentrations. These items, along with
simulators and flares present a fire hazard. Remove combustible materials before functioning.
Consider winds and fire hazards such as dry grass or fire bans. Consider using a barrier to
control spread of heat during functioning of grenades.
6.3.11. Ground burst simulators or hand grenade simulators present a blast hazard. Exercise
caution around people, facilities, and equipment. Clear the area of debris that could become
projectiles from the blast. Monitor for proper functioning and disposal of residue. Notify EOD
via Command Post when a munitions malfunctions.
TRAVISAFBI91-105 25 FEBRUARY 2009                                                            5


7. Exercise location.
7.1. Several areas on Travis AFB can be used for exercises, depending upon the scope of the
exercise, type explosives used, and terrain conditions.
7.2. Any site selected must be surveyed by Wing Safety and Unit supervisors of the agency
conducting the exercise, with particular consideration of the following:
7.2.1. Potential fire hazards to vegetation and facilities.
7.2.2. Availability of fire fighting equipment and personnel.
7.2.3. Accessibility for emergency equipment.
7.2.4. Ability to control access during the exercise.
7.2.5. Disruption or interference with other installation activities.
7.2.6. Ease of cleaning and validation of the area at the completion of the exercise.
7.2.7. Adverse public reaction and safety.
7.3. Obtain approval for use of the site/installation from the authority having jurisdiction, prior
to exercise planning. On Travis AFB, that authority is the 60 AMW/CC or designated
representative (60MSG/CC).
7.4. Coordinate exercise site approval with the host installation fire department and safety
office.
7.5. Exercise plans, developed IAW paragraph 3 will identify the installation, specific location
on the installation, and the person(s) designated to coordinate/obtain approval from the agencies
identified in paragraph.
8. Transportation of explosives.
8.1. Individuals operating vehicles or equipment transporting explosives will be trained and
qualified to handle and transport explosives IAW TAFBI 91-104, Explosives, Firearms, and
Hazardous Materials Transportation Program. Drivers will be identified in the exercise plan
IAW paragraph 3.
8.2. Explosives will be transported in military vehicles only. Specific types of vehicle to be used
will be identified in the exercise plan.
8.3. The vehicle used must be in good mechanical condition. There will be no fuel leaks or
excessive oil on the engine or exhaust system. Particular attention will be given to chafing or
deteriorated electrical wiring.
8.4. A minimum of two 2A:10BC fire extinguishers will be available with the transport vehicle.
8.5. Vehicles will not be fueled with explosives on board.
8.6. Vehicles loaded with explosives will not be left unattended.
8.7. Passengers will not ride in the cargo compartment of vehicles transporting explosives.
8.8. Explosives will be packaged, loaded, and tied down to prevent movement during transport.
6                                                   TRAVISAFBI91-105 25 FEBRUARY 2009

8.9. Vehicle operator will be thoroughly familiar with their explosive cargo and in the event of a
mishap, breakdown, or other unusual event, will be prepared to brief emergency response
personnel or local authorities on the class, quantity, and characteristics of the cargo.
8.10. ALL FIRES STARTING IN THE VICINITY OF AMMUNITIONS OR EXPLOSIVES
WILL BE REPORTED AND FOUGHT IMMEDIATELY WITH ALL AVAILABLE MEANS
TO PREVENT SPREADING OF FIRE AND MUNITIONS INVOLVEMENT. HOWEVER, IF
THE FIRE ENGULFS EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS OR IS SUPPLYING HEAT TO IT, OR IF
THE FIRE IS SO LARGE THAT IT CANNOT BE EXTINGUISHED WITH THE
EQUIPMENT AT HAND, THE PERSONNEL INVOLVED SHALL EVACUATE AND SEEK
SAFETY.
8.10.1. Follow fire fighting guidance in Attachment 3 in all instances.
8.11. Vehicles transporting explosives will be placarded as follows:
8.11.1. Booby-trap Simulators, M116A-1 Simulators or M49A1 Trip Flares, use fire symbol 3
placards.
8.11.2. M115A2 Simulator, use fire symbol 2 placards.
8.11.3. MK 13/M124 Signals, AN-M8/M18 Smoke Grenades, or M69 Practice Grenades, no
explosives placards required for on-base transport.
8.11.4. Blank 5.56mm or 7.62mm Cartridges, no placards are required.
8.11.5. When transporting explosives on Travis AFB, appropriate fire symbols or placards will
be displayed on the front, back, and both sides of the vehicle. If transport is off Travis AFB,
refer to TAFBI 91-104 for appropriate procedures.
8.12. Vehicles transporting explosives on Travis AFB for the purpose of exercises will proceed
to their destination via the most direct route, avoiding built up areas as much as possible and key,
mission-oriented facilities and equipment to the maximum extent possible. Travel routes for
explosives laden vehicles off base will be identified in the exercise plan and IAW California
Highway Patrol HPH 84.3, Explosives Routes and Stopping Places. Off-base travel routes will
avoid heavily populated areas, tunnels, narrow streets, or places where large crowds are
gathered.
8.13. Smoking is not permitted in or within 50 feet of vehicles transporting explosives.
8.14. Except for emergencies, explosives laden vehicles will not stop nor park at any location
between the pickup point and the destination.
9. Weapons and Ammunition Procedures.
9.1. All handguns loaded with blank, simunition, live ammunition or unloaded will be hand
carried in an approved holster or approved container.
9.2. All training weapons will be fitted with blank adapters prior to loading blank ammunition or
have conversion kits installed and marked appropriately for simunition ammunition.
9.3. A complete search, using the buddy system, of ammo pouches, equipment, magazines, and
blank ammunition will be conducted to ensure no live ammunition is introduced into the exercise
scenario.
9.4. Blank, simunition and live ammunition will never be stored together in the exercise area.
TRAVISAFBI91-105 25 FEBRUARY 2009                                                         7

9.5. Exercise personnel should check all ammunition and equipment for obvious safety defects
or the presence of live ammunition.
9.6. Blank and simunition ammunition will not be fired at or toward personnel who are within
20 feet.
9.7. If an armed person becomes sick or injured, their weapon and ammunition will be turned
over to the person in charge for proper turn-in.
9.8. After the completion of any exercise using blank or simunition ammunition, the person in
charge will ensure all weapons are cleared/empty prior to leaving the exercise area.
9.8.1. Upon arrival at armory or weapons storage facility, all weapons must be cleared at an
approved clearing barrel area.
9.8.2. If an approved clearing barrel is not available, the ground defense force commander may
designate an approved area or areas where weapons handling can be performed IAW AMCP 31-
1, Air Mobility Command Arming Policy.
10. Post Exercise Clean-up.
10.1. A thorough policing of the exercise area must be accomplished at the completion of the
exercise to ensure the removal of any unexploded items or munitions residue that could be
harmful to the public or used in an unauthorized manner. The clean-up effort will consist of the
following, as a minimum:
10.1.1. A review of accounting and control records for accountability of munitions stocks
transported to the exercise area.
10.1.2. Recovery of deployed simulators where no attempt to fire occurred.
10.1.3. Disposition of duds by EOD.
10.1.4. Policing of the exercise area and removal of all expended munitions residue, packing
material, and other litter. Any dud munitions discovered by these sweeps will be marked for
later disposal by EOD.
10.1.5. A responsible individual will validate the clean up of the exercise area. The individual
must have first-hand knowledge of the clean-up efforts. The person responsible for validation
will be identified in the exercise plan.
10.1.6. All expended munitions residue and packing material will be returned to 60 EMS/
MXMW for inspection and disposition IAW T.O. 11A-1-60, Inspection of Reusable Munitions
Containers and Scrap Metal Generated from Items Exposed or Containing Explosives.
10.1.7. Unused serviceable munitions that have been removed from their shipping/storage
containers will be returned to 60 EMS/MXMW for inspection and repackaging IAW applicable
technical orders.
8                                               TRAVISAFBI91-105 25 FEBRUARY 2009


11. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 3126 General Purpose
AF Form 55 Employee Safety and Heath Record
AF Form 623 Individual Training Record Folder
AF Form 483 Certificate of Competency




                                         STEVEN J. ARQUIETTE, Colonel, USAF
                                         Wing Commander, 60 AMW
TRAVISAFBI91-105 25 FEBRUARY 2009                                                    9


                             Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFPD 91-2, Safety Programs
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel
AFM 31-229, USAF Weapons Handling Procedures
Technical Order 11A-1-46, Fire Fighting Guidance, Transportation, and Storage
Technical Order 11A-1-60, Inspection of Reusable Munitions Containers and Scrap Metal
Generated from Items Exposed or Containing Explosives
California Highway Patrol Handbook, 84.3, Explosive Material Shipments, Explosives Routes
and Stopping Places
AMCP 31-1, Air Mobility Command Arming Policy
TAFBI 91-104, Explosives, Firearms, and Hazardous Materials Transportation Program


Abbreviations and Acronyms

EOD—Explosive Ordnance Disposal
HC—Hazard Class
IAW—In Accordance With
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office primary responsibility
10                                           TRAVISAFBI91-105 25 FEBRUARY 2009


                                  Attachment 2
                        EXERCISE PLAN LETTER EXAMPLE

Figure A2.1. Exercise Plan Letter Example.
TRAVISAFBI91-105 25 FEBRUARY 2009   11
12                                              TRAVISAFBI91-105 25 FEBRUARY 2009


                                  Attachment 3
                       FIRE SYMBOL HAZARDS AND ACTIONS

Table A3.1. Fire Symbol Hazards and Actions.
Fire
Symbol Materials            Hazard           Action/Remarks
1        1.1 Explosives     Mass             1. Do not fight fire unless rescue attempt is
         and class IV       Detonation       planned.
         liquid propellants                  2. If there is suitable separation to symbol 1
         and 1.5 munitions                   materials and fire chief approves, fire-fighting
                                             forces may attempt to extinguish the fire.
                                             3. If personal safety is in doubt, take cover.
                                             4. Evacuate personnel 4000 feet.
2        1.2.X              Explosion with 1. Give alarm; attempt to extinguish fire if in
         Ammunition and fragments            early stage.
         explosives and                      2. Firefighting forces should fight fire. If not
         1.6 extremely                       possible, prevent spread of fire.
         insensitive                         3. Detonation of items could occur. Provide
         detonating                          protection from fragments.
         substances                          4. Evacuate personnel 2500 feet.
3        1.3 Ammunition     Mass Fire        1. May be fought if explosives not directly
         and explosives                      involved.
                                             2. For fires involving HC and incendiaries use
                                             dry sand or dry powder in early stage.
                                             3. For fires involving pyrotechnics and
                                             magnesium incendiaries.
                                             a. Protect adjacent facilities and equipment.
                                             b. Do not use carbon dioxide, Halon
                                             extinguishers, or water on munitions.
                                             c. Allow magnesium to cool unless upon
                                             flammable material. In this case, use a 2-inch
                                             layer of dry sand or powder on the floor, rake
                                             the burning material onto this layer, and re-
                                             smother.
                                             4. Evacuate personnel 600 feet.
4        1.4 Ammunition     Moderate fire    1. Fight these fires.
         and explosives                      2. Expect minor explosions and hot fragments.
                                             3. Evacuate personnel 300 feet.
TRAVISAFBI91-105 25 FEBRUARY 2009                                                        13


                                 Attachment 4
                  PRIOR TO EXERCISE SAFETY BRIEFING SAMPLE

A.4.1. Hazards and precautions for the handling and use of the explosives involved. Ensure only
Blank or Simunition ammunitions is issued to exercise participants. NO LIVE AMMO.
Personnel issued live ammo for security reasons will be identified and will not be exercise
participants or permitted in the exercise area. Only EOD trained personnel will function
simulators or smoke producing munitions. Ensure simulators are only functioned at safe
distances from personnel and equipment. Only qualified personnel will be issued weapons. If
you have any questions about your weapon or ammunition notify a supervisor or EET.
A.4.2. Range/exercise area safety criteria. Do not function simulators or smoke grenades in dry
grass or combustibles. Ensure at least two fire extinguishers are present and serviceable.
A.4.3. Procedures for handling of dud or misfired munitions. Only EOD personnel are allowed
access to misfired or dud ammunition. Identify misfires or duds and keep non-essential personnel
at least 300 feet away.
A.4.4. Procedures to ensure the control and accountability of munitions. All issued ammunition
must be accounted for at the conclusion of exercise. Munitions can only be stored in a 60AMW
Safety approved licensed location.
A.4.5. Range/exercise area clean-up requirements and procedures. All expended munitions
residue is accountable and must be returned to 60 EMS/MXMW. All munitions packaging and
containers must be returned to 60 EMS/MXMW.
