BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                     TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                            INSTRUCTION 32-301
                                                                                      19 DECEMBER 2006

                                                                                          Civil Engineering

                                                                                  FACILITY MANAGERS



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 60 CES/CEOSO                                                                Certified by: 60 CES/CEO
                                                                                  (Major Todd Waldvogel)
Supersedes TRAVISAFBI32-301, 7 March 2003                                                         Pages: 15

This instruction implements AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management. This instruction specifies author-
ity for designating facility managers and defines their requirements and responsibilities. It is applicable to
all 60th Air Mobility Wing and tenant units. It also pertains to 349th Air Mobility Wing (Associate), Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) personnel. Refer recommended changes and questions about this pub-
lication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF IMT 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through Major Command (MAJCOM) publica-
tions/forms managers. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This instruction has been revised to provide in-depth information regarding Civil Engineer operations to
newly appointed managers and alternates. Updates and clarifies the facility manager’s responsibilities and
providing guidance on how to properly submit AF form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Order Request
Form. Explains and implements AF 813, Request for Environmental Impact and Analysis. This new addi-
tion is necessary for planning and execution of work done by the Engineering Flight. Additional changes
to the AF Form 1219, Base Civil Engineer (BCE) Multi Craft Job Order program. These changes ensure
facility managers comply and document 1219 inspection that is conducted in their facilities. Clarifies
emergency, urgent and routine work orders. Provides newly appointed facility managers and their alter-
nate examples of emergency, urgent and routine work. Includes the Excellent Installations Checklists. A
bar (|) indicates changes since the last edition.
2                                                           TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006


1. Overview.
    1.1. The care, custody, and protection of assigned facilities and real property are the responsibility of
    the organization’s commander. As a facility manager, you are your commander’s representative as
    well as CE’s official point of contact. This instruction is designed to help you perform your duties as
    facility manager. It outlines procedures to follow in executing your daily duties as a facility manager,
    and should be made available for quick reference. Please send suggested changes or modifications to
    60th CES/CEOSO.

2. Facility Manager Assignment.
    2.1. All facilities are assigned to individual Unit Commanders by action of the Installation Facilities
    Board, under authority of AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting.
    2.2. The Unit Commander must designate, in writing, a primary and alternate facility manager for
    each facility assigned to that organization. Current appointment letters will be kept on file with CE
    Customer Service, building 878. Facility managers should keep a copy of the appointment letter for
    their continuity folder. Appointees should meet the following criteria:
       2.2.1. Appointees should have at least eighteen months retainability to serve as facility manager
       from the time of appointment.
       2.2.2. Appointees should be an officer, non-commissioned officer (E-4 or above for primary) or
       civilian of equivalent grade.
       2.2.3. BCE recommends appointees are located in the facility.
       2.2.4. At least one primary and one alternate must be appointed for each facility. If different units
       are co-located in one facility it is preferred each smaller unit designate an alternate.
    2.3. In order to maintain continuity, a replacement should be identified to fill an outgoing facility
    manager position. A new appointment letter must be sent to the CE Customer Service identifying the
    new primary or alternate. Personnel at the Service Call desk will only process non-emergency
    direct scheduled work requests submitted by the primary or alternate facility manager
    appointed by the commander.
       2.3.1. Facility Manager Training. Training for newly appointed facility managers will occur on
       quarterly basis. Facility managers will be contacted and given date and time of training upon
       receipt of appointment letter. Facility managers must bring the original appointment letter and
       their facility manager’s log book with them. Facility manager records will only be updated after a
       briefing has been conducted with the new facility manager. Each year, facility managers must go
       online to conduct the computer base training for the refresher course. See paragraphs seven for
       more information on custodial contract responsibilities.
       2.3.2. The major user of a facility selects the facility manager when more than one unit occupies
       the same facility. The major user is defined as the organization occupying the most floor space
       within a facility.
       2.3.3. Facility managers are responsible for providing their facility records to their designated
       replacement.
TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006                                                                         3


       2.3.4. Tenant Organizations. Facility managers of tenant organizations should have a copy of and
       become familiar with their host-tenant agreement for their organization. This document is avail-
       able from Civil Engineering. For assistance or copies, call the Real Property Management section.

3. Facility Manager Handbook.
   3.1. The records you keep will provide a chronological history of your facility and maintenance
   schedule. They provide trends in maintenance and repair requirements and identify potential problem
   areas. They are used to justify new construction and the upgrade of real property equipment.
   3.2. Your facility manager handbook must contain the following:
       3.2.1. Facility manager assignment letter.
       3.2.2. Travis Facility Manager Policy Guideline.
       3.2.3. Facility Manager's Log.
       3.2.4. Key Control Register.
       3.2.5. Copies of all open and completed AF Form 332s, Base Civil Engineer Work Request.
       3.2.6. AF Form 1219, BCE Multi Craft Job Order.
       3.2.7. Engineering Technical Letter (ETL) 98-4: Building Manager Energy Conservation Hand-
       book.
       3.2.8. Most current schedule, Maps or plans of service contracts, e.g.; grounds custodial, refuse.

4. Facility Manager Responsibilities.
   4.1. The unit commander, with the help of all occupants and users of the facility, is responsible for the
   care, custody, and protection of all facilities used by his or her organization and the Real Property
   Installed Equipment (RPIE) therein. The Facility Manager serves in an administrative and advisory
   capacity. The following are a list of responsibilities:
       4.1.1. Space Management. The facility manager must notify the Real Property Management sec-
       tion before any internal or external moves. Base Real Estate Working Group approves these
       moves.
   4.2. Energy Management. The facility manager is responsible for energy management within a facil-
   ity. You are the person with the most direct influence in helping the base meet its energy reduction
   goals. Your actions could save the base thousands of dollars in energy costs each year. Responsibili-
   ties should include, but are not limited to:
       4.2.1. Assisting the base energy manager by implementing base programs and policies in your
       facility.
       4.2.2. Promoting a positive attitude for energy management practices in your facility.
       4.2.3. Insuring thermostats are set at correct temperatures during the heating or cooling seasons.
       4.2.4. Closing all windows and doors when the facility is being heated or cooled.
       4.2.5. Turning off lights when not in use.
4                                                           TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006


       4.2.6. Monitoring outside lights during daylight and insuring they are not used in excess or
       beyond the requirement to provide safety and security during darkness.
       4.2.7. Insuring equipment in the facility is turned off during extended non-use periods during duty
       hours and after duty hours, unless the equipment must stay on for technical or practical reasons.
       4.2.8. Insuring plumbing fixtures are not leaking.
       4.2.9. At a minimum every two weeks making a periodic walk-through of your facility to insure
       energy management is practiced.
    4.3. Fire Protection. As a facility manager you are responsible to your unit commander for the fire
    safe condition of your facility. You or your alternate should accompany the fire inspector during
    scheduled fire prevention inspections. Throughout these inspections, the fire inspectors will note fire
    hazards and deficiencies. They will explain your duties and responsibilities for the maintenance of a
    fire safe facility and will give you this information during the inspection or in a follow-up report. In
    addition to their inspections, facility managers should make sure a visual inspection is performed
    monthly and documented for all fire extinguishers under their control. Facility managers should also
    obtain approval from the Fire Protection Flight for the storage of flammable and combustible liquids.
    Contact the Fire Protection Flight in building 560 for additional assistance.
    4.4. Facility Security. Facility security is another responsibility of the facility manager. Establish a
    standard procedure for insuring your facility is secured from illegal entry at all times. If you have
    questions concerning facility security, contact the Security Forces Resource Protection Section or the
    Security Forces Operation Control Center in building 380A.
    4.5. Key Control. Establish a responsible, effective key control procedure for your facility Replace-
    ment keys for unit equipment, padlocks, vehicles, postal service center boxes, safes, and any-
    thing else not listed on Real Property records will not be duplicated.
       4.5.1. You are not responsible for keys that control specialized areas in your facility. These orga-
       nizational areas are responsible for safeguarding their specialized equipment, sensitive docu-
       ments, personal tool kits, etc.
       4.5.2. For those facilities receiving custodial services, the facility manager will be required to pro-
       vide keys/access codes to the custodial project manager to allow the custodial contractor access to
       the facility. Key issue should be accomplished in the same manner as for government personnel.
       4.5.3. Confiscate all keys from personnel who have been permanently reassigned, discharged, or
       whose employment has been terminated. Consider adding this process on your squadron’s
       out-processing checklist for this item. Keys issued to personnel going on extended leave or on
       temporary duty assignments for over thirty days should be held for safekeeping. When vacating a
       facility or any assigned space, be sure the appropriate keys are returned to the Real Property Man-
       agement section (60 CES/CERR).
       4.5.4. Facility managers will be provided additional keys if justification is sufficient and with an
       approved work request. CE personnel will issue master keys to the using organization when the
       facility lock system is "re-keyed" or if the locks are replaced. Facility managers must submit AF
       Form 332 with full justification and coordination by the unit commander for all master key
       requests. Master keys will only be issued to the primary facility manager and unit com-
       mander. There will be no approval of request for master keys without the concurrence of
TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006                                                                          5


      your unit commander. All actions involving key control are recorded on your key control regis-
      ter.
      4.5.5. For other than normal wear and tear, replacement keys and locks are the monetary respon-
      sibility of the individual to whom the keys are issued or the using organization.
   4.6. Gutter/Facility Cleaning. The facility manager is responsible for cleaning gutters on single story
   facilities that are accessible by ladder and not over 12 feet high. Other facilities will be inspected and
   the requirement added to the AF Form 1219 during recurring inspection visits. As a facility manager
   you are also responsible for the outside housekeeping of your facility within 50 feet.
   4.7. Mold Prevention Tips. Report leaky plumbing and leaks in the building. Conduct building survey
   following rain events to document condensation and wet spots. Perform regular building/HVAC
   inspections.
   4.8. Pest Control. Control of mice, roaches, ants and other pests will be accomplished by self-help
   means. Supplies are available to all facility managers by contacting CE Customer Service. Entomol-
   ogy can provide tips on controlling pests.
   4.9. Air Force Suggestion Program. Suggestions that propose MINOR building improvements to your
   facility must be routed through the facility manager for approval. Where building modifications are
   involved, CE is the implementing office of primary responsibility. You will need to prepare the nec-
   essary work request documents if the suggestion receives approval.

5. Initiating/Submitting Work Requests.
   5.1. The facility manager (primary or alternate) will submit work requests for all facility occupants.
   Alternates submitting work requests should coordinate with the primary to ensure all work both
   planned and accomplished in their facility is properly tracked. All work requests must be recorded in
   the facility manager’s log book. Emergency work orders (direct mission impact, fire, safety, or envi-
   ronmental) will be accepted from anyone. All other work requests will be accepted ONLY from the
   commander, facility manager, or their alternate.
   5.2. Emergency work. CE maintains 24-hour a day, seven-day-a week Service Call Desk, with the
   capability to dispatch craftsman to any base emergency condition. Anyone can call the Service Call
   Desk for emergency requirements. When using the Service Call Desk, obtain a direct scheduled work
   order number, record the work order number, and notify the facility manager in order for them to
   monitor work and follow-up. Emergency examples: Power outage and runway lights on taxiway
   inoperable.
   5.3. Urgent work. The facility manager, or their alternate, should call the Service Call Desk for urgent
   requirements. Urgent examples: No water in facility, air conditioning or heat not working in an entire
   facility.
   5.4. Routine work. Annotate on AF Form 1219, and hold until your inspection visit. Examples: Air
   conditioning or heat not working in one room, spraying for ants, caulking around windows, and
   installing additional outlets.
   5.5. New construction or alteration. Submit an AF Form 332 to your respective group work order
   monitor.
6                                                           TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006


    5.6. An AF Form 332 is required whenever a facility requires new construction, large maintenance,
    repair work, and all key requests. The facility manager must review and coordinate on the form.
    The Unit Commander must sign the form and it should be routed through your Group Work
    Order Monitor. The reverse side of the form contains instructions for preparation. Read the instruc-
    tions and follow them completely. Fully describe requested work and include sketches and diagrams.
    When applicable, include the manufacturer's requirements for new equipment to be installed. Plan
    ahead to allow adequate time for suspense dates and deadlines. The requested work will have to com-
    pete against your group’s work requirements in order to be placed into the Civil Engineer system. The
    priority assigned to your request will depend on your justification. The use of "strongly worded" jus-
    tifications cannot be overemphasized. References in justification pertaining to regulations, laws, rules,
    safety, security, and environmental issues must have copies attached for priority review. Any work
    that may affect the environment will require an AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact
    Analysis. This form should be completed by the requesting agency and reviewed by Environmental
    Flight before any work can begin. Contact the Environmental Flight in building 570 for more informa-
    tion.
       5.6.1. Customer Service Representatives will assign one of the following priorities to your work
       requests:
           5.6.1.1. Priority 1 - Mission. Work in direct support of the overall base or tenant unit mis-
           sion. Work that, if not done, would significantly reduce base operational effectiveness.
           5.6.1.2. Priority 2 - Safeguard Life and Property. This work is needed to give adequate
           security to area's subject to compromise, to eliminate health, fire, safety hazards, protect valu-
           able property or equipment and include energy conservation work.
           5.6.1.3. Priority 3 – Quality of Life. Work that supports the mission or prevents a break-
           down of essential operating or housekeeping functions.
       5.6.2. Once you complete and coordinate your work request, deliver the form to your Group work
       order monitor or facility manager. Prior coordination with the fire department, safety office, base
       bioenvironmental engineer and the base environmental engineer, for health or environmental haz-
       ards, will expedite the process. For your convenience Civil Engineer has set-up a coordination
       processing meeting which is held on the second and fourth Thursday of the month at 0900 in
       order to expedite the process. Contact Customer Service in building 878 for exact location of the
       coordination meeting. A properly completed form will save valuable time.
       5.6.3. The Wing End of Year (EOY) Work Order Priority System. The Work Order prioritization
       system is for work dealing with minor construction, renovation, self-help and new installation.
       Each Group advocates semi-annually for available slots on the Wing EOY Work Order list. . Each
       Group has a monitor that keeps track of all work requests. All work requests, AF Form 332,
       including Self-Help must be routed through the Group Work Order Monitor to compete.
       After coordination is complete, the request will go before the Work Request Review Board. This
       board meets at 1400 hours the fourth Tuesday of each month to determine if a request can be done
       In-House, Self-help, or if it will be done by contract. Contract work requests are sent to BCE Engi-
       neering to be programmed and do not count against your group allocation. Deputy Group Com-
       manders place in-house work on their group priority list. When the request is chosen, it is sent to
       Planning for a full plan. Logistics will purchase materials when funded. Once all of the materials
       have been received, the work request is sent to the scheduler for accomplishment.
TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006                                                                        7


  5.7. Facility Maintenance and Repair. Routine work required to preserve or restore an existing
  facility is normally categorized as maintenance and repair. Facility Managers hold routine work
  requirements and identify them to the craftsmen during scheduled maintenance visits.
     5.7.1. The goal is to visit high use and essential facilities on a recurring basis that satisfies cus-
     tomer’s needs. Unoccupied buildings such as lift stations, bus shelters, substations and low use
     facilities may not be visited as often (determined by CE).
     5.7.2. The supervisor and/or his representative, with the facility manager, conduct inspections to
     identify maintenance and repair requirements and prioritize their importance. Dormitory residents
     identify maintenance and repair requirements for individual rooms to their facility managers. Res-
     idents submit requirements to facility manager for prioritizing and scheduling. Use the AF Form
     1219 to record requirements identified during the inspections and prioritizes work to be performed
     during the maintenance visit.
     5.7.3. Scheduled recurring work will be performed on real property installed equipment (RPIE)
     and other equipment or systems maintained by CE. Any non-RPIE bought and installed by the
     facility user will NOT be maintained by the CE. Facility users are required to maintain all
     non-RPIE.
     5.7.4. "Relamping" a facility, (replacing light bulbs) is a Civil Engineer responsibility for replace-
     ment of bulbs over 10 feet high. The facility organization is responsible for purchasing the bulbs
     and calling in the work request when lights are over 10 feet high. Facility managers need to have
     the replacement light bulbs on hand before calling for a work order. This includes hangers.
  5.8. Service Contract Support. As a Facility Manager, you are responsible for the overall appear-
  ance of your facility and for ensuring that it is an acceptable workplace. CE manages contracts provid-
  ing several services that promote these requirements. However; bear in mind that BCE’s contracts are
  base wide, which means that services provided by the contracts are standard across the base, and fund-
  ing typically does not allow for services to be all encompassing. Any requirements your facility may
  have beyond the contract requirements are the responsibility of the occupants, not the contractors.
  Some of the contracted services provided by CE include refuse collection, custodial, and grounds
  maintenance, and painting signs. Any concerns in these areas may be directed to the Maintenance
  Engineering Element. Paragraph seven details the available service contracts and their parameters.
  5.9. New Construction. New construction means building a new facility, modifying, or otherwise
  adding to or significantly changing an existing building. Some examples are installing new walls or
  lighting, relocating existing walls, cutting doorways, increasing square footage etc.
  5.10. Self-Help. This is an excellent way to accomplish some important "people projects." Personnel
  assigned to your facility must be made aware that they MUST OBTAIN APPROVED 332
  BEFORE STARTING self-help projects. Self-Help projects must be placed on the Group priority
  list when no organizational funds are available.
     5.10.1. The "Self-Help" rules apply even if the customer supplies ALL their own labor and mate-
     rials. CE is responsible for insuring that all work is completed in a safe and proper manner. Sec-
     tion 5.6. also applies for Self-Help requests. The Self-Help planner can assist or direct you on
     the procedures that are required to obtain materials for your self-help project.
  5.11. Quality Control. In an effort to continually improve our level of service to our customers, CE
  has developed a Quality Control Evaluation card, which our craftsmen leave after every service call
8                                                           TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006


    has been completed. This is the customer’s opportunity to provide feedback to BCE on the quality of
    our service. If a craftsman does not leave an evaluation card, please notify customer service. The cus-
    tomer evaluation card is one of our best mechanisms for feedback on quality of service.

6. Civil Engineer Squadron Overview.
    6.1. As a facility manager, you will be working with several different functions of the Civil Engineer
    squadron including Operations Flight, Fire Protection Flight, Engineering Flight, and Resources
    Flight. The function of each flight is identified below.
    6.2. The Operations Flight is divided among five major sections, Operations Support , Facilities
    Maintenance, Maintenance Engineering, Heavy Repair, and Infrastructure. Their primary functions
    are as follows:
       6.2.1. Operations Support – Made up of Operations Management, Planning and Logistics. Opera-
       tions Management manages the work request system and the Top 10 Work Order Priority pro-
       gram. Planning provides cost estimates and plans all work requests. Logistics is responsible for
       the ordering of materials needed for work accomplishment.
       6.2.2. Facility Maintenance – Consists of the Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning and Refrig-
       eration (HVAC/R) section as well as the Structures and Vertical sections. The HVAC/R craftsmen
       maintain, repair, and install the heating and cooling systems used to support he base missions. The
       Structures section maintains and repairs all the interior and exterior structural components of the
       base’s facilities. The Vertical section consists of craftsmen from four trades and completes the
       minor construction and remodeling of base facilities.
       6.2.3. Maintenance Engineering - Provide service contract support to include grounds mainte-
       nance, custodial service, refuse collection, carpet installation, and elevator maintenance. A com-
       plete section on maintenance engineering is included in paragraph seven.
       6.2.4. Heavy Repair Horizontal does all paving and concrete work. They are also responsible for
       Base Appearance Team.
       6.2.5. Infrastructure - Maintains the waste, water, water distribution system, electrical distribution
       system, fuel distribution system, and emergency power systems, and entomology. Entomology
       handles pest removal and limited pest control.
    6.3. Engineering Flight handles all phases of construction contract projects from initial programming
    to design to construction inspection.
    6.4. Resources Flight includes the Real Property Section. Their responsibilities include space utiliza-
    tion management and real property records.
    6.5. Fire Protection Flight provides fire protection technical support to include fire extinguisher and
    fire safety training. Fire extinguisher maintenance is accomplished using a fire extinguisher mainte-
    nance contractor and funded by the Fire Department.

7. Maintenance Engineering.
    7.1. Some of the work accomplished in and around your building is completed via service contracts.
    Service contracts, in most cases, are ideal for routine tasks that must be completed on a periodic basis.
    They are more efficient for a contractor to complete rather than government personnel. Maintenance
TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006                                                                         9


  Engineering is the section responsible for all CE service contracts. CE personnel, known as quality
  assurance personnel or QAP, are the government representatives responsible for managing and moni-
  toring service contracts. The QAPs are your points of contact for these contracts and available to assist
  with problems you may encounter.
  7.2. The following section provides specific information on the services available. If you require a
  service that is not currently being provided, contact the Chief of Service Contracts building 878 for
  guidance on how you may best obtain that service.
  7.3. Grounds Maintenance. Maintaining the grounds in order to provide a safe, aesthetically pleasing
  environment for the base is governed by the Grounds Maintenance contract. Mowing, edging, trim-
  ming, pruning trees, shrubs, maintaining plant beds, and seasonal leaf removal could be part of the
  contract. For tree pruning, the base is divided into three zones, and one zone is pruned per year. For
  grassy areas, the base is divided into three classifications - unimproved, semi-improved, and
  improved.
     7.3.1. If you have any questions or complaints about the grounds maintenance services provided
     to your facility, contact the Grounds Maintenance QAP, located in Bldg 878.
  7.4. Irrigation Systems. Many facilities are equipped with automated irrigation systems. The utilities
  shop closely monitors operations of these systems. Do not adjust the timing mechanism or supplement
  the irrigation with manual watering. Generally, these timers are scheduled to water during evening
  hours for 10-15 minutes every other day. Irrigating at night requires only one-third as much water as
  during the day due to evaporation during the day. If you feel the grounds are not being adequately
  watered, contact Customer Service to investigate the service. The utilities shop will determine if extra
  watering is needed.
  7.5. Custodial Services. The custodial contract assures a clean working environment with minimum
  disruption to the customer. Service differs for every building. The QAP will be able to answer any
  question you have on services your facility receives. Facility managers are required to perform the fol-
  lowing actions for the custodial contract:
     7.5.1. Monitor Contractor Performance. Contractors are required to perform services in accor-
     dance with requirements and standards specified in the Statement of Work. Facility managers
     need to learn which services their facility requires and how often. Facility managers should
     inspect contractor performance as soon as possible after service is performed. The QAP needs to
     be informed of any identified discrepancies using the customer complaint system (explained later
     in this section).
     7.5.2. Notify the QAP of any requirement changes. Modifications take at least 45 days to process.
     If you need to have requirements changed for your facility (i.e.; add rooms, add tasks, and change
     performance time), the QAP must be notified early enough to process the modification. Failure to
     do so could result in the change not taking effect when needed.
     7.5.3. Ensure the proper types of bags are used for recycling containers (as determined by the
     Environmental Flight). The Base Recycling Program only allows for recyclable material to be col-
     lected if it is in clear plastic bags. Recyclable material cannot be collected if the bag is not trans-
     parent or translucent. The contractor is responsible for emptying recycling containers, but the
     facility manager, not the contractor, is responsible for providing the proper bags in the recycling
     containers. Additional information can be obtained from the Environmental Flight Recycling
     Coordinator.
10                                                           TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006


     7.6. Refuse Collection. Refuse collection positively enhances base appearance while assuring an
     environment free of potential disease and pests. It also enhances the environment through recycling
     efforts and reducing the quantity of material going to the landfill. Dumpsters are placed in strategic
     locations to provide service to multiple buildings from a single location.
        7.6.1. In industrial areas, dumpsters are emptied on a recurring basis determined by the amount of
        refuse generated. Items prohibited from refuse collection are appliances with freon, items contain-
        ing propane, petroleum products, or hazardous materials. Recycling bins are provided at various
        locations around base.
        7.6.2. Direct all questions, complaints, or arrangements for refuse services to the QAP.
     7.7. Carpet Installation and Replacement. A simplified procedure has been established to provide a
     single point of contact to replace carpets throughout the base. This procedure streamlines the process
     for removal and installation of carpet, while identifying asbestos abatement concerns. It improves cus-
     tomer satisfaction and minimizes customer footwork.
        7.7.1. The only authorized procedure to obtain new carpet and tile is by submitting an AF Form
        332. No other process such as purchase on the Government Purchase Card is valid. Any questions
        on this procedure or concerning carpet installation and replacement can be directed to QAP.
     7.8. Cranes, Hoists, and Elevators. Cranes, hoists, and elevators are all special equipment items that
     require periodic maintenance to assure reliability and provide a safe working environment that meets
     State and Federal regulations. If you have a crane, hoist, or elevators that are not currently being main-
     tained, or any questions concerning these items, contact the QAP.
     7.9. Washers and Dryers. Most washers and dryers on base are currently leased and maintained by a
     contract. There are several washers and dryers on base however, that are not part of this maintenance
     contract. You may contact the QAP if you have a washer or dryer in your facility and are unsure it is
     covered by this contract, you are planning on purchasing a washer or dryer for use in your facility, or
     you have maintenance needs concerning your washers and dryers.
     7.10. Spas. A contractor maintains spas in the fitness center. This contract provides preventative
     maintenance as well as emergency repairs.
     7.11. Control Tower Window Washing. A contract is established to clean the windows for the control
     tower.
     7.12. 60 AMW Form 55, Excavation Permit, is required for any disturbance of the surface anywhere
     on base. Excavation permits save infrastructure assets while maintaining the integrity and reliability
     of the base utility systems. They prevent accidents and minimize disruption of electrical, gas, tele-
     phone, water, and sewage systems.
        7.12.1. A clearance request can be obtained through the following steps:
            7.12.1.1. Complete 60 AMW Form 55 with a clear description of work to be performed along
            with an 8 1/2” x 11” site plan showing street names, building numbers, and cross streets.
            7.12.1.2. Call Underground Service Alert (USA) and obtain a tracking number, date called in,
            and expiration date.
            7.12.1.3. Make six copies of the site plan and 60 AMW Form 55.
TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006                                                                         11


         7.12.1.4. Take your documentation to the Digging Permit meeting held every Tuesday at 1000
         hours in CES Operations Flight Conference room, building 878. This meeting will confirm
         any utilities in the area and notify utilities personnel of the need to mark any in the area of your
         excavation. You may also “pre-submit” your 103 at any time. You will also be required to
         mark your requested excavation area in white paint prior to submission. This is so the utilities
         shop can check the exact area for lines, etc.
         7.12.1.5. When all utilities have been marked and all signatures have been obtained, you will
         be called to pick up your permit and only then may you proceed with excavation.
         7.12.1.6. Your permit will only be valid for 30 days and will need to be re-approved if work
         has not been complete in allotted time.
     7.12.2. Any questions concerning an excavation permit a 103 can be directed to Maintenance
     Engineering.
  7.13. One-Time Service Contracts. Maintenance Engineering also handles one-time service require-
  ments. These include things the removal of a stump or performing lead and asbestos abatement prior
  to installation of a window. These one-time service contract requirements are submitted using the AF
  Form 332 process. If it is determined the work cannot be completed in house and it is a service con-
  tract requirement, the work will be directed to Maintenance Engineering for completion.
  7.14. Customer Complaints. Any contracted service needs to be monitored by the government to
  ensure satisfactory performance by the contractor. Since the facility manager is ultimately responsible
  for the condition of the facility, and due to the limited number of service contract inspectors in civil
  engineering and the large number of service contract requirements across the base, recurring con-
  tracted services performed within a facility manager’s area of responsibility should primarily be mon-
  itored by the facility manager. Facility managers need to be familiar with the contract requirements in
  order to properly monitor contractor performance. If the facility manager identifies deviations from
  the requirements, then the QAP must be notified. Notification can be accomplished on the AF Form
  714, Customer Complaint Form, or any locally developed form as directed by the QAP. The follow-
  ing instructions describe how to properly complete the AF Form 714.
     7.14.1. AF Form 714 must be filled out and received within a reasonable time after the services
     were provided. A telephone call to the QAP is sufficient to initiate the complaint, but the written
     form must follow it. The building manager is the only person authorized to forward a formal com-
     plaint. Upon receipt of the complaint, QAP will personally inspect the service and validate the
     complaint. If valid, the contractor will be notified to repeat the service. Complaints received more
     than two hours after services are received are nearly impossible to validate.
     7.14.2. AF Form 714 is easy to fill out. The following information is required:
         7.14.2.1. Block 1: The exact date and time you discovered the problem.
         7.14.2.2. Block 2: Your organization with the correct squadron and section.
         7.14.2.3. Block 3: Your building number.
         7.14.2.4. Block 4: Your name with correct rank or civilian equivalent.
         7.14.2.5. Block 5: Your telephone number.
12                                                          TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006


            7.14.2.6. Block 6: Nature of your complaint. Be specific when indicating precise area and
            location of the problem.
        7.14.3. Once all blocks have been completed, you may fax the complaint to Maintenance Engi-
        neering or deliver it to the QAP located in Building 878. You should also contact the QAP to
        inform them of your problem so they can promptly respond to your complaint.
        7.14.4. Complaints are only valid if the service is part of the contractor’s responsibility listed in
        the contract. For example, grass growing in cracks of parking lot is not part of the grounds main-
        tenance contract. A complaint as such would be considered invalid.
        7.14.5. If you have any questions on customer complaint system, please contact the appropriate
        QAP for the contract, or the Chief of Service Contracts.
     7.15. The responsibilities listed in this instruction may not be current or all-inclusive, depending on
     recent contract modifications. Directions issued to facility managers by QAPs supersede information
     in this instruction in such case.

8. Forms Prescribed. 60 AMW Form 55, Excavation Permit.

9. Adopted Forms. AF Form 1219, BCE Multi Craft Job Order, AF Form 332’s, Base Civil Engineer
Work Request, AF Form 813, Request for Environmental Impact Analysis, AF Form 714, Customer Com-
plaint Form.



                                                SHAWN D. NELSON, Lt Colonel, USAF
                                                Director of Wing Staff
TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006                                                        13


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFM 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property
AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management
AFI 32-1001, Operations Management
AFI 32-1061, Providing Utilities to US Air Force Installations
AFI 32-1098, BCE Self-Help Guide
AFI 32-2001, The Fire Protection Operations and Fire Prevention Program
AFI 32-9005, Real Property Accountability and Reporting
AFOSHSTD 91-43, Flammable and Combustible Liquids
AFOSHSTD 91-56, Fire Protection and Prevention
Engineering Technical Letter (ETL) 98-4, Building Manager Energy Conservation Handbook
14                                                          TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006


                                                Attachment 2

                          EXCELLENT INSTALLATIONS CHECKLISTS


Sites                   Building Exteriors       Building Interiors       General Issues
Cleanliness of          Condition of facility    General condition of Owner/user policing
Parking                 (things not falling      facility and finishes of areas
                        apart)
Overall site clean of   Windows clean            Coordinated interior     Compliance with
debris                                           design theme—            Architectural
                                                 finishes and furniture   Compatibility Plan
Condition of planting No cracked glass           Damaged surfaces         Base/Area has unified
beds; weeds pulled                               repaired                 theme-materials,
                                                                          colors. Etc.
No blue handicap      Minimize visual            No stained ceiling       Building manger
parking signs         clutter                    tiles                    known by occupants
Trash dumpsters neat Overhangs free from         Ceiling tiles match if
                      webs, dirt, bird nests,    replaced
                      etc.
No vehicles blocking No exposed conduits         Burned out light bulbs
emergency access      or cables in visible       replaced and use same
roads/points          areas                      color lamps
Anything out of place No entryway clutter        Interior
                      (magazine racks,           signage-consistent,
                      vending machines,          clear, level
                      etc.)
                      Antennas discreetly     No handwritten signs
                      located                 on walls
                      Building entrances      No pinned or taped
                      clearly identified      signs on interior/
                                              exterior door/walls
                        No red butt cans      Minimum use of temp
                                              signs
                        Ash receptacles       Uniform window
                        placed                treatments, clean and
                        inconspicuously       in good repair
                        Owner/user            Window treatments
                        responsible upkeep of appropriate for
                        grounds to 50 feet of function
                        bldg
TRAVISAFBI32-301 19 DECEMBER 2006                                              15


Sites           Building Exteriors   Building Interiors       General Issues
                                     Trash cans placed
                                     discreetly
                                     Bulletin boards and
                                     other items properly
                                     framed and displayed
                                     Artwork straight and
                                     appropriate to facility/
                                     function
                                     Overall neatness of
                                     facility and little
                                     clutter
                                     Neatness of work
                                     spaces
                                     Clean and dust free
                                     Minimal exposure of
                                     wires and cables for
                                     computers and phones
                                     No furniture blocking
                                     windows
                                     Emergency exists not
                                     blocked
                                     Adequate lighting for
                                     task
