BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE
TRAVIS AIR FORCE BASE                                                 INSTRUCTION 33-110

                                                                                   3 APRIL 2012

                                                              Communications and Information

                                                            STANDARD COMMUNICATIONS
                                                                      INFRASTRUCTURE


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release ability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 60 CS/SCXP                                                          Certified by: 60 CS/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col Michael E. Phillips)
                                                                                        Pages: 15


This Travis Air Force Base Instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1,
Information Resources Management. It provides policy, direction, and guidance for planning
and implementation of communication infrastructure for Military Construction (MILCON) and
building renovation projects. This instruction also implements Engineering Technical Letter
(ETL) 02-12, Communications and Information System Criteria for Air Force Facilities and
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-580-01, Telecommunications Building Cabling Systems
Planning and Design. It establishes responsibilities and procedures for base agencies, architects,
engineers, and contractors to plan, design, review, and evaluate telecommunications cabling and
distribution systems. It contains base standards for pre-wiring new construction under Military
Construction Program (MCP), Combined Defense Improvement Projects (CDIP), and remodeled
facilities. Furthermore, it identifies minimum essential factors to be considered when
telecommunications pre-wiring support is addressed. This instruction applies to all units,
assigned and/or associated with Travis Air Force Base (TAFB).

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/ . The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                        TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012


1. General.
     1.1. Purpose. The purpose of this instruction is to provide design criteria for planning
     telecommunications cabling and distribution systems in building construction and renovation
     efforts.   Pre-wiring shall be included in all military facility construction projects
     accomplished with 3300 series funding in accordance with Air Force ETL 02-12. All pre-
     wiring must comply with the ETL 02-12, UFC 3-580-01, and this instruction. Compliance
     with these instructions will improve maintenance by establishing a standard for
     communications systems facility. Department of Defense (DOD) publications direct the use
     of commercial standards whenever they meet DOD needs. The commercial standards
     referenced in ETL 02-12 and UFC 3-580-01 shall be followed along with this instruction.
     1.2. Scope. Project design packages will comply with:
        1.2.1. Local minimum communications standards.
        1.2.2. Building communications and distribution system.
        1.2.3. Telephone/Local Area Network (LAN) entrance cables.
        1.2.4. Communications equipment rooms.
            1.2.4.1. Telecommunications cabling and termination.
            1.2.4.2. Telecommunications outlets.
            1.2.4.3. Testing requirements.
2. Responsibilities.
     2.1. 60 CES Construction/Renovation Design Package Office of Primary Responsibility.
        2.1.1. Present all communications requirements to 60 CS at the earliest opportunity
        before the Request for Purchase (RFP) is finalized, or no later than the 60% level design
        review for design-built projects.
        2.1.2. Present 60 CS a complete design package for review to include a draft of the
        Requirements Document and drawings, the DD Form 1391, Military Project
        Construction Data, and a list of any deviations from the Communications-Computer
        Systems (C-CS) criteria which must be approved by the Communications and
        Information Systems Officer (CSO) or his representative.
        2.1.3. Allow 15 days for communications squadron review of all design packages. The
        Base Telephone Systems Office and base telephone maintenance contractor may be
        needed to provide assistance with the incorporation of new infrastructure. The Base
        System Telecommunications Engineer Manager (STEM-B) may also need to provide
        communications engineering assistance. Any assistance requested will be coordinated
        through 60 CS Plans and Implementation during the monthly STEM-B site visit.
        2.1.4. Notify 60 CS Plans and Implementation of any changes in project scope.
     2.2. 60 CS Communications Plans and Implementation.
        2.2.1. Coordinate design packages with all appropriate communications agencies.
        2.2.2. Receive and maintain comments on design packages. Ensure design packages
        comply with standards in this document and support the current base blueprint document.
TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012                                                                    3


      2.2.3. Forward design review comments to the 60 CES and attend design meetings as
      required.
      2.2.4. Ensure the most efficient wire or cable distribution system is included in the
      facility design.
      2.2.5. Check design packages to ensure current and projected communications
      requirements are considered for flexibility to accommodate future additions or changes.
      2.2.6. Ensure appropriate 60 CS personnel are involved in all phases of the project.
      2.2.7. Coordinate any changes or deviations to TAFBI 33-110, ETL 02-12 and UFC 3-
      580-01.
3. Personnel Certification Requirements.
   3.1. Personnel involved in design and construction shall have expertise in engineering and
   installation of telecommunications, cabling, and distribution systems. If requested by the
   CSO, contract personnel shall provide adequate proof of their individual skill by
   demonstrating their technical expertise and methods of testing and documentation.
      3.1.1. The contracting company shall have a minimum of five years experience in the
      design, application, and installation and testing of the specified systems and equipment.
      3.1.2. The contractor shall employ Registered Communications Distribution Designers
      (RCDD) to perform systems engineering and design.
      3.1.3. All supervisors and installers assigned to the installation of a system or any of its
      components shall have industry training for each area of installation and have factory
      certification on all components used in the installation. General electrical trade staff
      (electricians) will not be used for the installation of the fiber optic and copper cables and
      associated hardware.
      3.1.4. All installers assigned to the installation of a system or any of its components shall
      have a minimum of one year experience in the installation of the specified fiber optic and
      copper cable and associated hardware. Installation supervisors shall have a minimum of
      three years experience in the installation of the specified fiber optic and copper cable and
      associated hardware.
4. Manufacturers Minimum Qualifications.
   4.1. The equipment and hardware provided under all contracts will be from manufacturers
   that have a minimum of three years experience in producing the types of systems and
   equipment specified.
5. Local Minimum Standards.
   5.1. To minimize the long-term cost of the infrastructure, the following local standards are
   established and may only be changed when approved in writing by the CSO. These
   standards are intended to promote common skills among maintenance personnel throughout
   the base and to minimize the necessity for excessive spare parts and variations in
   telecommunications equipment:
      5.1.1. Base Fiber Optic Cable (FOC) outside plant backbone connections in support of
      Information Transfer Nodes (ITNs):       Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) or
 4                                                         TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012


        Switched/Gigabit Ethernet Connections 48-strand Single Mode (SM) FOC 8.3/125
        micron.
        5.1.2. Base FOC outside plant satellite connection in support of End Building Nodes
        (EBNs): Switched Ethernet Connections 12-strand (minimum) SM FOC 8.3/125 micron.
        5.1.3. New Construction: Install a minimum of 50 pair #23 American Wire Gauge
        (AWG) copper (CAT 6A or latest standard) outside plant cable.
        5.1.4. All cable used for telecommunications outlets shall be four pair, #23 AWG, solid
        copper conductor, green CAT 6A or higher standard, UL tested and certified. Each cable
        shall be dedicated to one device or outlet only.
        5.1.5. Whenever exposed in air circulation areas, only plenum rated cable will be used.
        5.1.6. All telecommunications outlets shall provide a minimum of four Universal Service
        Ordering Code (USOC) CAT 6A RJ-45 or latest standard type jacks utilizing
        Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA) 568-B for voice/data/LAN. All 4 pairs
        within the cable shall be terminated to USOC CAT6A RJ-45 or latest standard type jack.
        All CAT 6A patch panels shall have 110 interface on the back side. Panel width shall be
        as required to fit in a standard 19” equipment rack.
        5.1.7. Information outlet spacing in office areas shall be based upon one quad outlet for
        each eight (8) linear feet of useable perimeter wall space or one for each 100 square foot
        of floor space, whichever provides a higher outlet density. All other locations will be
        provided with outlet density as determined by the CSO or his representative.
        5.1.8. Administrative telephone wiring will be based on the single-line instrument
        concept with individual cable running from the wall outlet to the Telecommunications
        Room (TR) via the cross connect cabinet if required. Each jack will be wired “homerun”
        from jack to the nearest TR. Splitting cable pairs to multiple jacks is not authorized.
        5.1.9. All outside plant copper cable conductors shall be #26 AWG in cable sizes above
        2100 Pair. All copper conductors for cables less than 2100 pair will not be less than #23
        AWG.
        5.1.10. All Outside Plant cable will be filled core type, and meet Rural Utilities Service
        (RUS) Professional Engineer 39 (PE-39) or PE-89 specifications.
6. Comprehensive      Requirements. Comprehensive            requirements      apply     to    all
telecommunications systems.
     6.1. Building Communications Distribution System.
        6.1.1. All primary backbone conduits shall be installed in locations as determined by the
        CSO or his representative and shall provide adequate size and quantity to meet current
        requirements plus 100% growth for future use to preclude digging at a later date to meet
        emerging requirements.
        6.1.2. When new construction or renovation takes place, the design, installation, and all
        related costs necessary to extend the conduit and manhole (MH) system to the new
        location shall be included in the project in accordance with ETL 02-12, UFC 3-580-01,
        and AFI 65-601V, Budget Guidance and Procedures. Multiple service entrance locations
TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012                                                                  5


     will be required for all facilities housing command and control systems to provide
     redundant survivable service.
     6.1.3. A manhole with a minimum of two 4” conduit/duct bank lateral systems with
     tracer and pull rope will be used for required cables plus 100 percent spare ducts (not less
     than 1 spare) for expansion and maintenance in all primary duct banks.
     6.1.4. Manholes shall be installed for all connections to the existing cable plant as
     required and maintained at a maximum spacing of 350 feet. Additional manholes may be
     required to provide adequate control of connection and distribution of the cable plant.
     6.1.5. All manholes and handholes shall be designed and constructed to meet the
     requirements of Technical Order (T.O.) 31W3-10-22, Telecommunications Engineering
     Outside Plant Telephone. Manholes shall provide a clear inside floor space measurement
     of 8’ x 10’. An alternate size of 6’ x 8’ may be approved only when no primary
     backbone cable passes through the manhole (lateral or dead end service only). All
     manholes shall provide a clear height no less than 7 ft. Conduits shall enter the MH 4 to
     5 inches above finish floor on the end and be perpendicular to the wall in approximate
     location. Mandatory items include grounding bus bar and rod and related conductors and
     wiring, a ladder or step, cable rack support, a 50 cubic foot sump (French drain), pull in
     iron/anchor, frame and a manhole cover cast with the word “COMMUNICATIONS”
     exposed to the surface. All manhole covers will be round and provided with a locking
     bar or other locking device to allow use of a padlock or other restriction to unauthorized
     entry.
     6.1.6. Power and communications cables will be separated by 12” of well tamped, fine
     earth protection in accordance with T.O. 31W3-10-12, Outside Plant Cable Placement.
     The cable at the top of the crossing, whether power or communications cable, will receive
     the same additional protection (see paragraph 6.1.8). In addition, if the cable crosses
     over the main, extend additional cable protection 3’ from each side of the crossing.
     Where highway, railroad and runway crossings occur, cable at such crossings must be
     placed underground using a metallic conduit or Schedule 80 Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC)
     conduit. Polyvinyl Chloride conduit may be direct buried if 30-36” of cover is provided.
     If steel pipe conduit is used, boring procedures will be followed to ensure protection of
     existing utilities or resources. Where PVC conduits are installed, a metallic #10 AWG
     copper tracer wire at minimum will be installed within the conduit or 6” above the duct
     bank to assist in future location efforts, with bonding to occur inside each manhole and at
     CER grounding frame.
     6.1.7. Stub up a minimum of two 4” lateral conduits no less than 6” above the finished
     floor level adjacent to the telephone punch down board continuous to the nearest splice or
     service point as determined by the 60 CS if both fiber and copper are available from a
     single location. The two lateral entrance conduits will each have three 3-cell Maxcell
     innerduct to be used for fiber. If a diverse path is required for both fiber and copper, a
     minimum of four 4” conduits is required (two for fiber and two for copper). All conduits
     will have three 3-cell Maxcell innerducts. Conduits are to be sealed or capped air tight to
     prevent water from entering the TR.
6                                                        TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012


       6.1.8. Provide 36" minimum cover for all conduit duct banks and 36" minimum cover for
       laterals measured to top of conduit. The 60 CS will provide termination of cable
       connections in the manhole.
       6.1.9. When determined necessary to simplify installations, conduit will be curved to
       provide gentle sweeps with a minimum radius of 25 feet for a total bending radius not to
       exceed 180 degrees between manholes, hand holes, or pull locations.
       6.1.10. All conduits shall be sloped toward each opposing manhole at a slope of 3" per
       100’ of run to promote drainage of any accumulated liquids.
       6.1.11. When specified, hand holes will be nominally 6’W x 8’L x 7’H inner dimensions
       or a standard 36” x 60”x 36”substructure box. Mandatory items include grounding bus
       bar and rod and related conductors and wiring, a sump hole (French drain), and a traffic
       rated cover with a locking bar or other locking device to allow use of a padlock or other
       restriction to unauthorized entry.
    6.2. Telephone Entrance Cable.
       6.2.1. The contractor will provide underground exterior service cable, gel filled, IAW
       RUS PE-39 or PE-89 from the main communications panel to the nearest manhole tie-in
       or service point with sufficient vacant pairs to provide each facility with currently
       required circuits plus 50 percent spare pairs as determined by the CSO or his
       representative.
       6.2.2. Splice cases used to splice copper cable into the base infrastructure will be
       stainless steel. A transition splice will be made between the exterior copper gel-filled
       cable and dry-filled intra-building cable in the TR in accordance with TIA/EIA 569A
       standard.
       6.2.3. In accordance with Underwriters Laboratories (UL) 497, all Building Entrance
       Terminals (BET’s) will be provided with three-electrode gas tube or solid state type 5-pin
       rated for the application. Provide gas tube protection modules in accordance with RUS
       Bulletin 345-83 and shall be heavy duty, A>10kA, B>400A, C>65A where A is the
       maximum single impulse discharge current in accordance with National Electrical
       Manufacturers Association (NEMA) C62.61. The gas modules shall shunt high voltage
       to ground, fail short, and be equipped with an external spark gap and heat coils, in
       accordance with UL 497. Provide the number of surge protection modules equal to the
       number of pairs of exterior cable of the building protector assembly.
       6.2.4. Building Entrance Terminals (BET) used for the termination of outside cables, 300
       pair or less in size, will have a built in splice chamber with 710 type splice modules.
       Equipment side (house) of the BET will use 25 pair Telco type connections to station
       equipment. BETs of this type will not be stacked more than three high.
       6.2.5. Building Entrance Terminals used to terminate cable sizes greater than 400 pair
       will be a #23 AWG stubbed 355 series type blocks with 3BlE type gas protectors and be
       mounted in a vertical buss arrangement.
       6.2.6. The contractor shall conduct appropriate testing and provide 100% continuity test
       results to 60 CS Base Telephone Systems Office. Use Optical Time-Domain
       Reflectometer (OTDR) to perform the test.
TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012                                                                   7


   6.3. LAN Fiber Optic Entrance Cable.
       6.3.1. Single mode fiber optic (SM FOC) will be used for inside and outside premise. At
       a minimum, 48 strands SM FOC (8.3/125 micron) will be designed as part of a new
       facility construction project. Facility use and user requirements will dictate whether
       more fiber optic cable is required. Refer to Paragraph 5 of this document for local
       minimum standards.
       6.3.2. All FOC will be home run from the closest primary or secondary information
       transfer node (ITN) to the new facility. Fiber optic cable will not be spliced in any
       manholes.
       6.3.3. All FOC entering the building will terminate in the TR in a 19” rack floor mounted
       FOC patch panel with LC connectors.
       6.3.4. Fiber optic cable terminations at the far end (primary or secondary ITN) will be
       performed by the base. The contractor shall provide manufacturer test results and
       conduct industry standard OTDR testing on cable and provide 100% continuity test
       results to 60 CS Base Telephone Systems.
   6.4. Telecommunication Rooms (TR).
       6.4.1. A TR will be provided for Communications-Computer System (C-CS) switching
       and transmission equipment, private branch exchanges (PBXs, gateways, power supplies,
       etc.) main distribution frame(s), LAN equipment racks, fiber optic cable termination,
       patch panels and other equipment needed for termination of the building's interior wiring
       systems and to interface the local service equipment with the exterior base cable system.
       The primary TR will be located on the first floor with an exterior door only to provide
       uninterrupted access by authorized personnel. The TR must have a lockable door and
       keyed to 60 CS specifications. As a minimum, the TR should have ¾ inch plywood
       backboard from no greater than 1 foot above the finished floor level to no less than 7 feet
       above the finished floor level. Plywood will be sealed and fire rated. BETs are required
       for all primary TRs. Install telephone distributing posts (mushrooms) as required by
       number of connecting blocks in all TRs. The size of the TR will not be less than the
       specifications found in Table 1.

Table 1. TR Size Requirements.
                                                                 Number of 4” Entrance
Building Usable Area (Square Feet) TR Size (Square Feet)              Conduits
<20,000                                     400                           3
20,000 to 100,000                           500                           4
100,000 to 200,000                          900                           5
Every additional 200,000                   600+                          +1

NOTE: Room size will have a 2:1 ratio in length to width.
       6.4.2. Adequate installation and maintenance space, environmental control and power
       typical to an office environment (heated and cooled), shall be included to support
       equipment and any necessary cable entry requirements. No other building support
8                                                      TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012


    equipment including mechanical equipment, plumbing equipment, and electrical panels
    will be placed in the TR. Maintenance space and access space will not be utilized for any
    other purpose and will be free and clear of all obstructions to a height of 8 feet to allow
    for adequate cooling and servicing of equipment. Storage of any type is prohibited in the
    TR.
    6.4.3. The TRs will be provided with space as required and will be so located that the
    distance measured along the routing path of the cable will not exceed 295 feet including
    vertical distances to wall telecommunications outlets to maintain the integrity of the
    digital data signal. Where multiple TR rooms are required, attention must be given to
    their strategic placement to support interconnection via 4 inch conduit or 6 inch wide by
    2 inch deep minimum cable trays between each room as well as to the primary TR in
    which the cable head/fiber connections are to be located. Where it is necessary to
    interconnect more than one TR, single-mode (SM) fiber optical cable will be used. A 1
    inch innerduct will be provided inside the 4 inch conduit or conduit raceway with pull
    cord ensuring a direct path between each TR. For telephone interconnection, provide #23
    AWG copper wire cable between the TRs.
    6.4.4. Circuit connectivity from the telecommunications outlet jacks to the TR will be
    provided through 1¼ inch minimum conduit stubbed to 12 inches above the finished
    ceiling using the most direct route available, complete with pull cords. A 6 inch wide by
    2 inch deep minimum above the ceiling cable through/raceway may be used to connect
    rooms provided plenum type cable is used or provided. Where cable trays are provided,
    conduits will be extended to the cable tray and be terminated. The through/raceway will
    run above the ceiling on the top of proper support structures using the most direct route
    between the TRs. Conduit fill will not exceed the 40% rule as stipulated in the National
    Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 70 and TIA/EIA.
    6.4.5. Type 630B wall jacks will be provided for wall-mounted telephones in the TR,
    electrical and mechanical rooms mounted 60 inches above the finished floor.
    6.4.6. A controlled and secured access to the TR is required to allow 24-hour
    uninterrupted access by authorized technicians. The TR on the first floor will have
    exterior access only. Locking door knobs shall be utilized with key ways and locks
    keyed alike to match the 60 CS master key. Only authorized personnel by the CSO will
    possess key to the TRs.
    6.4.7. Temperature in the TR will be maintained between 65-78 degrees Fahrenheit.
    6.4.8. A minimum of two-gang 120 VAC power outlets on a separate 20-Amp power
    outlet circuit with isolated ground will be provided. Additionally, a minimum of two-
    gang 220-240 VAC 30-Amp power outlet circuit with isolated ground for use in
    powering uninterrupted power supply (UPS) will also be provided. An additional duplex
    convenience outlet will be located away from the telecommunications outlets to provide
    power to operate service and maintenance equipment. Sufficient lighting will be
    provided in all TR areas to promote a safe and acceptable work area.
    6.4.9. Ground all devices, cable sheaths, protectors and other equipment in accordance
    with T.O. 31W3-10-22, ANSI/EIA/TIA 607, MIL Standard 188-124B, and the NFPA 70.
    Provide a single-point ground for all communications/electronic equipment for the
TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012                                                                9


     building within the TR. Provide a telecommunications main grounding bus bar (TMGB)
     at a minimum of 6 inches high by 24 inches long. The ground riser from the ground plate
     to the single main electrical service entrance ground must be a #1 AWG or larger copper
     conductor directly connected to the ground plate with no taps. The resistance of the
     ground riser must be 5 ohms or less measured from the main building ground point. All
     connections of wire-to-wire and/or wire-to-ground rod must be exothermic-welded.
     Extend #6 AWG or larger copper ground wires from the TR ground plate to each
     secondary TR within the building and connect a telecommunications grounding bus bar
     (TGB) in the TR. Bond each TMGB and TGB to non-current-carrying metal building
     parts such as metal framing in the TR as required by the NEC.
  6.5. Telecommunications Room (TR).
     6.5.1. The primary TR will be provided as required to serve approximately every 10,000
     ft2 of usable floor space. Other TRs will serve as a secondary interconnection point
     between the telephone/LAN modular jack outlets and the main communications frame in
     the TR. Wall and floor space will be provided for installation and maintenance of
     equipment such as frames or backboards. Such equipment will be concealed and secured
     as required for TRs and will not be installed in common use areas. It must be fully
     accessible and maintainable as outlined for TR room equipment.
     6.5.2. All cable in the TR will be tagged according to room and jack number to indicate
     its associated jack number and location. All LAN runs must be continuous from wall
     outlet to patch panels in the TRs. Installation of plugs and plugging house cable into
     active electronic equipment is strictly prohibited.
  6.6. Cabling and Termination.
     6.6.1. Horizontal Cables (Telephone and LAN).         Connect individual subscriber
     telephone and LAN outlets to their respective 110-type patch panels in the TR.
     Horizontal cable for both telephone and LAN must be 4-pair #23 AWG solid copper, 100
     ohm, CAT 6A or better plenum rated unshielded twisted pair (UTP) cable. Use only
     cable that has passed UL network certification program and is UL-listed and labeled.
     Green CAT 6A cables will be used for voice, LAN, and data. Tag and label cables at
     least 6 inches at both ends.
     6.6.2. Telephone Riser Cables. Provide connection between the telephone patch panel in
     the TR and the telephone patch panels or distribution frame in the TR. Telephone riser
     cable must be multi-pair (sized as required to support all horizontal cables terminated in
     the TR plus 50% spare pairs) #23 AWG solid copper, 100 Ohm, CAT 6A UTP cable.
     They must meet the requirements of EIA/TIA-568-B or latest standard.
     6.6.3. CAT 6A wiring will be terminated in a standard 19" rack mounted CAT 6A patch
     panel located in the TR situated in a central location within the building. Cable length
     will not exceed 295 ft.
     6.6.4. Pairing and color-coding for jacks will be in accordance with EIA/TIA-568B
     standards in Table 2
 10                                                      TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012


Table 2. TIA 568-B LAN/DATA Wiring Standard.
  PIN #        COLOR              PIN #         COLOR
    1         W/ORANGE              5         W/BLUE
    2         ORANGE                6         GREEN
    3         W/GREEN               7         W/BROWN
    4         BLUE                  8         BROWN
      6.6.5. The 60 CS contractor will have a minimum of ten working days to complete the
      cross connects, install equipment, and verify the system prior to occupancy by the tenant
      starting from receipt of the work order.
      6.6.6. To clearly identify cables and their usage, each cable will be labeled at both ends
      by identifying their room and outlet number. Each outlet cover plate will also carry the
      outlet designation, as shall the termination jack on the patch panel or termination block.
      A permanent type label affixed to the cable or outlet jack cover to preclude damage due
      to age or other mechanical means will identify all cable and terminations. Automated
      embossed labels are required. Pen and ink label is not authorized.
   6.7. Telecommunications Outlets.
      6.7.1. In general office areas, a quad-plex modular telecommunications outlet plate with
      four each USOC RJ-45 or latest standard type jacks will be provided every 8 linear feet
      around the usable room perimeter or one for each 100 square feet of net floor area
      whichever provides greater density. All wall outlet components will be certified as CAT
      6A or higher and jacks will be USOC RJ-45 or higher type wall jacks with a removable
      outer bezel. Green jacks will be used to identify all CAT 6A jacks.
      6.7.2. Telecommunications outlets will be mounted at 18” above the floor to the
      centerline of the cover plate unless noted otherwise.
7. Periodic, Pre-Final, Final Inspections to include Testing and Documentation.
   7.1. All telecommunications cable will be certified and tested utilizing the Optical Time-
   Domain Reflectometer (OTDR) test equipment in accordance with EIA/TIA standards with
   written test result to be provided to the 60 CS. Where deficiencies of any type are discovered
   upon testing, the contractor will make all necessary repairs, including replacement if
   necessary, at no cost to the government.
   7.2. Revised drawings which reflect the actual “as built” conditions will be maintained
   throughout the construction phase. A copy will be provided to the 60 CS with the cable
   certification records upon completion of the work but prior to final acceptance of the work to
   allow 60 CS to perform a final review of drawings and inspect installations.
   7.3. Cyberspace Infrastructure Planning System (CIPS)/CIPS Visualization Component
   (CVC). The CVC is the basis of "as built" cable records and will be provided to the 60 CS
   upon final project acceptance. The drawings will show cross-connect and termination points
   for each cable pair, locations and identification number for each modular outlet, and the
   location and value of each line amplifier and multi-port device throughout the inside plant
   cable system. The outside plant drawings will be geospatial referenced and include the
   conduit, innerduct, cable types, cable count, cable size, and length. All manholes, handholes,
   and pull boxes will have complete butterfly details to include geospatial referenced location,
TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012                                                                  11


   entry points, grounding, bonding, racks/ladders, or other equipment installed. Three copies
   of these drawings will be updated to final "as built" conditions by the construction contractor
   and turned over to the 60 CS along with one electronic copy of outside plant drawings
   utilizing Vizio. As-built drawings will be provided to 60 CS NLT than 30 days after facility
   is accepted by the base.
   7.4. In-progress inspections by 60 CS personnel are required during construction. Trenches
   may be inspected to verify conduit size and quantity, cable type, earth cover compliance, and
   accuracy of "red line" base cable record or contract drawings. The general contractor
   performing the work is solely responsible for requesting in progress inspections to the base
   before backfill or installation of walls during cable certifications.
   7.5. All installed cables (fiber and copper) will be tested by the installer and may be in the
   presence of 60 CS personnel or its representatives. Baseline test records will be provided to
   the 60 CS in printed and digital format. All CAT 6A cables will be tested and certified to
   155 Mbps (500 MHz) to ensure they are usable at higher data transmission speed. UL testing
   standard for new cable including fiber optic testing of single-mode cable will be followed.
8. Other Considerations.
   8.1. Classified Systems (Secure Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNET) and
   Defense Red Switch Network (DRSN)).
      8.1.1. Classified requirements may vary and will be taken on a case-by-case basis.
      Customer units must identify classified LAN and telephone requirements to the 60 CS
      during preliminary design planning. Due to the specific nature of the security and
      COMSEC requirements for these systems, it is difficult to address these requirements in
      generalized terms.
   8.2. Modular Furniture.
      8.2.1. Modular furniture configuration will be supported by the standard wall jack.
      Telephone and LAN wiring systems in areas with pre-wired workstations, furniture
      systems or modular walls must have sufficient flexibility and connectivity to enable
      rearrangement without modification to the permanent communications wiring in the
      facility.  Suitable patch cords and connectors must be provided.          Permanent
      splices/connections are prohibited. Patch cords will be permanently labeled with the
      corresponding outlet number and will be at the expense of the customer.
 12                                               TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012


Figure 1. CAT 6A Four-Gang Wall Plate Numbering




                                     DWIGHT C. SONES, Colonel, USAF
                                     Commander, 60th Air Mobility Wing
TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012                                                                13


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
AFI 32-1022, Planning and Programming for Nonappropriated Fund Facility Construction
Projects, 20 May 2009
AFI 32-1065, Grounding Systems, 01 October 1998
AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, 18 November 2008
AFI 33-150, Management of Cyberspace Support Activities, 30 November 2011
AFMAN 33-360, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 65-601 V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 03 March 2005
BICSI, Telecommunications Distribution Methods Manual, 12th Edition
ETL 02-12, Communications and Information Systems Criteria for Air Force Facilities, 27 June
2002
UFC-3-580-01, Telecommunications Building Cabling Systems Planning and Design, 22 June
2007
Joint Technical Architecture-Air Force, Building Wiring Architecture
Joint Technical Architecture-Air Force, Voice Switching Systems Architecture
Joint Technical Architecture-Air Force, Information Technology Infrastructure Architecture
Joint Technical Architecture-Air Force, Local Area Network Architecture
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 70, National Electrical Code, 99th Edition
TO 31W3-10-22, Telecommunications Engineering, 15 September 2009
TO 31W3-10-12, Outside Plant Cable Placement, 30 October 2004
International Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Association
ANSI/EIA/TIA, Telecommunications Building Wiring Standards, 11th Edition
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
ANSI—American National Standards Institute
ATM—Asynchronous Transfer Mode
 14                                               TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012


AWG—American Wire Gauge
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
BCSO—Base Communications Systems Officer
BDF—Base Distribution Frame
BET—Building Entrance Terminal
CAT—Category
CATV—Community Access (cable) Television
COMSEC—Communications Security
DRSN—Defense Red Switch Network
EBN—End Building Node
EIA—Electronic Industries Alliance
EMSEC—Emissions Security
ETL—Engineering Technical Letter
FOC—Fiber Optic Cable
IDF—Intermediate Distribution Frame
ITN—Information Transfer Node
JTA—AF-Joint Technical Architecture-Air Force
LAN—Local Area Network
MM—Multi-mode
NCC—Network Control Center
NEC—National Electric Code
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
NIPRNET—Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Network
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
SLC—Single Line (instrument) Concept
SM—Single Mode
STEM—B-Base System Telecommunications Engineering Manager
TR—Telecommunications Room
TGB—Telecommunications Grounding Busbar
TIA—Telecommunications Industry Association
TMGB—Telecommunications Main Ground Busbar
TRAVISAFBI33-110 3 APRIL 2012          15


TP—Twisted Pair
UL—Underwriters Laboratory
USACE—U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
USOC—Universal Service Ordering Code
UTP—Unshielded Twisted Pair
VAC—Volt Alternating Current
VSWR—Voltage Standing Wave Ratio
