                            325th Fighter Wing
                      Team Tyndall Environmental Policy
Team Tyndall is fully committed to minimizing the
impacts of our operations on the environment and
maintaining our excellent reputation for environmental
stewardship. Our goal is to sustain mission capability
while integrating sound environmental practices throughout
operations of the 325th Fighter Wing as well as tenant
units assigned to Tyndall AFB. It is the responsibility of
our entire workforce including military, civil service, and
contract personnel, to be aware of and abide by this
policy. The fundamental principles of our environmental
policy are:

1. Comply with environmental regulations, laws, and
   other requirements.

2. Maintain an effective environmental management
   system that will meet the goal of this policy.

3. Promote environmental training and awareness at all
   levels.

4. Conserve natural resources, prevent pollution, and
   recycle.

5. Maintain open communication with the surrounding communities concerning environmental issues.

6. Review and update the environmental management system and supporting documentation to reflect
   current base operations.

7. Demonstrate a dedication to continual improvement by identifying objectives and targets that will
   enhance environmental performance.

Protecting the environment at Tyndall AFB is everyone’s job, regardless of position, rank, salary or
experience. Team Tyndall’s Environmental Safety Occupational Health Council is dedicated to
providing the leadership required to achieve the principles of this policy. Together we can execute our
mission successfully while minimizing the effects of our operations on the environment.

For additional information about this policy or questions about the environmental management system
at Tyndall AFB, please contact the Environmental Element at 283-4354.




                                                          JOHN K. McMULLEN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                                          Commander

TYNDALLAFBVA 90-8, 1 April 2012 (Per AFI 32-7001)                                  OPR: 325 CES/CEAN
Supersedes: TAFBVA 90-8, 8 May 2008
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.
