BY ORDER OF THE                                                   TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
FIGHTER WING COMMANDER                                                INSTRUCTION 32-2001
TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                              11 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                    Civil Engineer

                                                     FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.

OPR: 325 CES/CEFP                                                       Certified by: 325 CES/CC
                                                                          (Brian Stumpe, Lt Col)
Supersedes:    TAFBI 32-2001, 1 December                                                 Pages: 23
               2005


This instruction provides guidance and establishes procedures for personnel directly or indirectly
responsible for fire protection and establishes a recognized standard practice for safeguarding life
and property from the hazards of fire and explosion. This instruction includes provisions for
other base agencies and their responsibilities in the area of fire prevention and protection. This
instruction implements AFI 32-2001 and applies to all individuals assigned, attached or tenant,
and also to contractors working on Tyndall Air Force Base (TAFB). It is mandatory that all
personnel be aware of their duties and responsibilities pertaining to fire prevention activities.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. It applies to
individuals at all levels who prepare, manage, review, certify, approve, disseminate and/or use
official Air Force publications and forms, including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted otherwise. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and should be reviewed in its entirety.
2                                                               TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012


       1.      FIRE PREVENTION. ............................................................................................     2
       2.      ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES. ..................................................                             3
       3.      FIRE REPORTING. ..............................................................................................    8
       4.      CLASSES OF FIRES. ...........................................................................................     8
       5.      RECOGNITION AND ELIMINATION OF FIRE HAZARDS. ...........................                                          9
       6.      FIRE EVACUATION. ...........................................................................................     18
       7.      SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS. ................................................................................           20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTIVE INFORMATION                                                                  22


1. FIRE PREVENTION.
    1.1. AUTHENTIC STANDARDS. In addition to Department of Defense and Air Force
    instructions, directives, policies, etc., the National Fire Protection Association, Underwriters
    Laboratories Incorporated, American Gas Association, National Bureau of Standards and
    other recognized criteria shall apply. Hazardous conditions of a peculiar nature for which no
    criteria have been developed or published shall be corrected by local action based upon
    sound judgment. Where the nature of the condition does not require immediate elimination,
    but can be safely minimized for a short period, technical assistance shall be rendered by the
    applicable headquarters concerned, if requested.
    1.2. OBJECTIVES. In order to provide continuity of the Air Force mission, all personnel
    must be able to recognize and eliminate hazardous conditions which, if not corrected
    immediately, could result in loss of life, injury, or property damage from fire. This
    instruction provides guidance and authority to implement fire prevention and protection
    measures at each level of command within the jurisdiction of TAFB. This instruction
    implements AFI 32-2001 and applies to all organizations including tenant units, detachments,
    contractors, subcontractors, concessionaires and visitors to TAFB properties. A copy of this
    instruction shall be maintained in each functional publications library, and in addition, each
    real property facility manager shall maintain one personal copy for the execution of fire
    protection responsibilities.
    1.3. ENFORCEMENT. Commanders, functional managers, real property facility managers
    and supervisors shall continually emphasize compliance of this instruction. Disciplinary
    action shall be initiated where willful misconduct compromising the safety of the base
    populace occurs. Examples of such behavior are willfully transmitting false or emergency
    alarms, tampering with or negligence of fire protection equipment, and disregarding policies
    that jeopardize lives and/or government property. Action shall be initiated to have violators
    reimburse the government for losses for which they are found liable.
    1.4. TERMS EXPLAINED. For the purpose of this instruction, the following terms apply:
       1.4.1. Fire Prevention. The measures directed toward the prevention of fires.
       1.4.2. Fire Hazard. An existing condition or situation that, if not corrected, could result
       in undesired ignition and subsequent fire causing personal injury or loss of life and
       property. Fire hazards shall be corrected immediately.
TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                             3


     1.4.3. Functional Manager. The operating official on the commander’s staff at all levels
     exercising managerial control of an activity or operation. Functional Manager as it
     relates to the signature block on the AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, is the
     Squadron Commander or Deputy Commander.
     1.4.4. Facility Manager. A military or civilian employee appointed in writing by the
     organizational commander as the primary or alternate manager of a building.
     1.4.5. Unit Supervisor. A military or civilian employee officially appointed by a
     functional manager to lead, direct, and supervise the work of others.
     1.4.6. Portable Fire Extinguisher. A fire extinguisher designed to permit the operator to
     aim the nozzle toward the base of a fire and discharge the agent to contain the fire. Such
     a device can either be easily carried to the scene of a fire or wheeled on a mobile carrier.
     Successful use depends upon:
         1.4.6.1. Knowledge of the proper type of extinguisher and extinguishing agent for the
         specific type of fire.
         1.4.6.2. Knowledge of the correct techniques for application of the extinguishing
         agent on the fire.
         1.4.6.3. Adequacy of the amount of extinguishing agent supplied for the size of the
         fire.
     1.4.7. Places of Public Assembly and Recreational Facilities. Such areas include, but are
     not limited to, all buildings or portions of buildings used for gathering 50 or more persons
     together for deliberation, worship, entertainment, eating, drinking, amusement, awaiting
     transportation or similar uses.
     1.4.8. Educational Type Occupancy. Educational occupancies include facilities used for
     educational purposes through the twelfth grade by six or more persons for 4 or more
     hours per day or more than 12 hours per week.
     1.4.9. Mercantile Type Occupancy. Mercantile occupancies include Army and Air Force
     Exchange Service Stores, Commissary, and other rooms, buildings, or structures for the
     display and sale of merchandise.
2. ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
  2.1. THE 325TH FIGHTER WING COMMANDER. The commander is responsible for the
  fire protection of resources under the jurisdiction of TAFB and shall exercise primary
  responsibility through the Base Civil Engineer. The commander implements direction from
  higher headquarters to control local fire hazards.
  2.2. BASE CIVIL ENGINEER. The Base Civil Engineer is the Base Fire Marshal and
  assists the Wing Commander in discharging fire protection responsibilities in accordance
  with AFI 32-2001.
  2.3. CHIEF, FIRE & EMERGENCY SERVICES. The Chief, Fire & Emergency Services is
  responsible to the Base Fire Marshal for the management and operation of the fire protection
  program.
4                                                TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012


       2.3.1. Supervising Firefighting Operations. The Chief or the senior fire officer (SFO) at
       the scene is in complete charge of all firefighting and rescue operations. During these
       operations, persons outside the fire protection organization do not give orders or interfere
       with the SFO or firefighters. Unauthorized personnel are restricted from the area during
       such emergencies.
       2.3.2. Authority to Commandeer. The SFO in charge at the scene of an emergency may
       commandeer available military vehicles, equipment, materials and personnel considered
       necessary for prompt control and extinguishment of fires or the rescue of personnel.
    2.4. FIRE PREVENTION ELEMENT. The Fire Prevention Element is responsible for
    managing the Fire Prevention Program as outlined in AFI 32-2001.
    2.5. UNIT COMMANDERS/FUNCTIONAL MANAGERS/FACILITY MANAGERS AND
    SUPERVISORS. Unit commander, functional managers, facility managers, and supervisors
    at all levels are responsible for and must ensure that sound fire prevention procedures are
    established and enforced in each activity or facility under their jurisdiction. They shall:
       2.5.1. Advise the Fire Prevention Element of fire hazards that cannot be corrected by unit
       personnel.
       2.5.2. Immediately inform the Fire Prevention Element of any fire extinguisher(s)
       discharged or damaged and any installed fire protection systems that may have been
       damaged during operations accidentally or by contact with material handling equipment.
       2.5.3. Develop an appropriate standard publication; i.e., fire reaction plans or operating
       instructions for their unit/section to follow when fire is discovered. Fire reaction plans or
       operating instructions must cover fire reporting, personnel evacuation, safeguarding
       classified information, and first aid firefighting (portable fire extinguisher use).
       Depending on the type of activity, fire reaction plans or operating instructions shall also
       include such items as emergency removal of aircraft from hangars, protection of high
       value and mission-critical material, and accidents involving fuel handling and explosives.
       Emergency plans shall be posted in conspicuous locations throughout the facility.
       Facility safety or bulletin boards are a good place to post emergency plans. The
       publication used shall be forwarded to the Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention for approval
       when completed. Templates for fire reaction plans are available from the Fire Prevention
       Element. Local authority having jurisdiction dictates requirements.
       2.5.4. Request the Fire Prevention Element provide appropriate fire prevention training
       and demonstrations to all personnel.
       2.5.5. Supervisors at all levels are responsible for enforcement of sound fire prevention
       practices in their areas of responsibility. Ensure a complete fire prevention orientation has
       been provided to all assigned personnel.
       2.5.6. Supervisors maintaining secured areas under lock and key shall ensure access to
       these facilities for required fire prevention inspections and are responsible for
       enforcement of fire prevention practices in these areas.
    2.6. REAL PROPERTY FACILITY MANAGER. Each real property facility manager is
    responsible to the unit commander and functional manager for the fire safe condition of the
    facilities under their jurisdiction. The facility manager or a designated alternate shall
TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                             5


  accompany the fire prevention inspector during the scheduled fire prevention inspection and
  initiate immediate corrective action of fire hazards noted during the inspection. Facility
  managers are responsible for notifying the Fire Prevention Element in writing of handicapped
  personnel working in facilities by type of handicap and location where they work.
     2.6.1. Facility managers shall be designated in writing by the organizational commander.
     Newly appointed managers will be briefed on their fire prevention responsibilities during
     the Initial Facility Mangers Training class.
         2.6.1.1. Facility managers are responsible for conducting monthly inspections of fire
         protection features of facilities under their control including fire extinguishers, exit
         lights and emergency lights. Facility managers of cooking facilities are also
         responsible for the monthly inspection of special extinguishing systems installed in
         kitchens. Training regarding the inspection of fire protection features is available
         from the Fire Prevention Element upon request. Documentation of inspections shall
         be maintained in the facility fire protection binder.
     2.6.2. Facility managers shall maintain a fire prevention binder and have it available for
     review during fire inspections. The minimum contents of the fire prevention binder shall
     be tabbed as follows:
         2.6.2.1. Facility Emergency Plan.
         2.6.2.2. TYNDALLAFBI 32-2001, Fire Prevention and Protection.
         2.6.2.3. Monthly inspection record of fire extinguishers, emergency lighting and exit
         lights.
         2.6.2.4. AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report, (if applicable).
         2.6.2.5. AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request, (if applicable).
         2.6.2.6. Any other information pertaining to fire prevention.
  2.7. CIVIL ENGINEER CONTROL CENTER. The supervisors of the Civil Engineer
  Operations shop and Civil Engineer contract monitors for all contractors shall inform F&ES
  of all road repairs where the avenue of travel is impeded.
     2.7.1. The Civil Engineer Utilities Shop shall conduct fire flow tests, maintain fire
     hydrants, maintain installed fire protection systems, and ensure adequate water supply is
     available during firefighting operations IAW UFC 3-601-02 Inspection, Testing and
     Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems.
     2.7.2. The Civil Engineer Preventive Maintenance Shop shall conduct required
     inspections, testing, and maintenance of all alarm systems to include, but not limited to,
     air handler duct detectors, smoke and fire dampers IAW UFC 3-601-02 Inspection,
     Testing and Maintenance of Fire Protection Systems.
  2.8. SECURITY FORCES. Immediately upon notification of a fire, Security Forces shall
  establish traffic and personnel control to ensure access and free movement to firefighting and
  emergency equipment.
  2.9. SPONSORS OCCUPYING PRIVATIZED FAMILY HOUSING.                           Sponsors in
  privatized family housing are responsible for fire safety in their quarters. Information
6                                                TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012


    regarding home fire safety and prevention is available from the privatized housing office.
    The Fire Prevention Element (283-2909) is available upon request to conduct home fire
    safety inspections and provide education in home fire safety.
    2.10. COOKING FACILITIES, PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY AND
    RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. These places require extraordinary actions to prevent fire.
    Cooking facilities, places of public assembly and recreational facilities are defined in the
    NFPA Life Safety Code 101 and AFI 91-203.
       2.10.1. Managers of cooking facilities, places of public assembly and recreational
       facilities must establish and maintain a certification system so that all employees are
       trained in and understand their fire prevention responsibilities in the workplace. This
       certification system includes annual training of employees and immediate indoctrination
       of newly hired employees. (Note: Building evacuation procedures may be practiced
       without actual participation of patrons.)
       2.10.2. Managers or assistant managers of cooking facilities, places of public assembly
       and recreational facilities shall conduct and document daily closing inspections within 1
       hour after closing. This responsibility shall not be delegated to janitorial personnel.
       Closing inspections shall consist of a complete physical inspection of the building and all
       inspection items listed on the Fire Safety Closing Checklist provided by the Fire
       Prevention Element.
       2.10.3. Fire Prevention Inspectors are required to inspect places of public assembly
       before all major social events when temporary decorations or unusual arrangements exist.
       Spot-check closing inspections by fire protection personnel may be directed by the Chief,
       Fire & Emergency Services for cooking facilities, places of public assembly or
       recreational facilities. These inspections do not relieve the facility manager of the closing
       inspection responsibility.
       2.10.4. Managers of public assemblies shall maintain occupant load information in the
       manager’s office. Every room constituting an assembly occupancy and not having fixed
       seats shall have the occupant load of the room posted in a conspicuous location near the
       main exit from the room.
       2.10.5. Managers of facilities where commercial or restaurant type cooking is performed
       shall establish and enforce procedures to ensure that all installed grease filters and
       exposed surfaces of kitchen range hood, to include the areas exposed when the filters are
       removed, are thoroughly cleaned by the operator daily or more often as necessary to
       prevent accumulation of grease. Spare filters shall be required in kitchens that operate
       continuously.
       2.10.6. Managers of facilities where commercial or restaurant type cooking is performed
       are responsible for ensuring their hood and ducts are cleaned properly and at the required
       frequency. Proof of cleaning such as service receipts shall be maintained by the manager.
       Hood and exhaust ducts serving cooking equipment shall be thoroughly cleaned at least
       every 6 months or at a frequency dictated by the following:
           2.10.6.1. Systems serving solid fuel cooking operations - Monthly.
TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                             7


        2.10.6.2. Systems serving high-volume cooking operations such as 24-hour cooking,
        charbroiling or wok cooking - Quarterly.
        2.10.6.3. Systems serving moderate volume cooking operations - Semiannually.
        2.10.6.4. Managers shall be responsible for contacting F&ES for inspection of the
        exhaust system prior to the cleaning contractors’ departure.
        2.10.6.5. Cooking is not permitted under a range hood without grease filters installed.
        The exhaust system shall be operating at all times when cooking equipment is
        operating. Grease filters must be the approved fire-rated type.
        2.10.6.6. Provide a properly fitted metal or metal-clad cover for each deep fryer.
        Ensure that all metal covers for deep fryers are placed over the appliances when they
        are not in use.
        2.10.6.7. Impairments to any installed hood and duct equipment including hood
        filters, exhaust fans and motors, installed fire suppression systems or portable wet
        chemical fire extinguishers shall be promptly reported to the Fire & Emergency
        Services Flight. All cooking operations will immediately cease and will not be
        permitted until the effected system is repaired.
        2.10.6.8. Managers of cooking facilities are required to inspect fire suppression
        systems installed over cooking surfaces monthly. Inspections shall be documented
        using the tag or label attached to the system or by using an approved checklist.
        2.10.6.9. Cooking equipment installed beneath fire suppression systems shall not be
        reconfigured or replaced without the consent of the Fire Prevention Element as
        changes may be required to either the arrangement of system nozzles or type of
        suppression agent.
     2.10.7. Deep fryers must be equipped with a primary thermostat to limit temperature to
     400 degrees Fahrenheit. The second thermostat must be nonadjustable fusible or manual
     resetting to ensure grease does not exceed 475 degrees Fahrenheit. Thermostats must be
     tested annually by Civil Engineer craftsmen. NOTE: Units designed with secondary
     thermostats that do not have a cutout switch or if the destruction of the secondary
     thermostat would occur if testing were conducted are exempt from the required testing.
     A label stating test due date shall be affixed to unit. The disassembly or the transfer of
     hot liquids to conduct the test is prohibited. The primary thermostat on deep fryers shall
     be provided with a shunt bypass assembly to be accessible to authorized personnel for
     testing.
        2.10.7.1. Deep fryers shall comply with Federal Standard Specifications and not be
        installed closer than 16 inches to cooking equipment having an open flame. Deep
        fryers that cannot meet the 16-inch distance shall have side shields at least 8 inches in
        height from the surface flame of the adjacent cooking equipment.
        2.10.7.2. Managers of cooking facilities shall ensure that deep fat fryers are included
        in an RWP (recurring work program) through the 325 CES for annual calibration of
        thermostats.
     2.10.8. Installation of restaurant cooking equipment must be in accordance with NFPA
     96.
 8                                                 TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012


3. FIRE REPORTING. All fires shall be reported to F&ES immediately. In the event that the
fire is extinguished by other than F&ES personnel, immediately report the incident to F&ES so
that technically qualified personnel may inspect the fire scene and surroundings to guard against
the possibility of the fire rekindling or extension.
     3.1. METHODS TO REPORT A FIRE:
        3.1.1. TAFB property - 911.
        3.1.2. On Base Family Housing and Base Exchange Services - 911.
        3.1.3. Billeting Facilities - 911.
        3.1.4. Carrabelle ACMI Site - 911.
     3.2. PROCEDURES: The following first aid firefighting procedures shall be followed
     immediately after discovery of a fire:
        3.2.1. Notify all building occupants of a fire emergency by activating manual fire alarms,
        public address system or other means.
        3.2.2. Report the fire by calling 911 from a safe location.
            3.2.2.1. Give the location of the fire (building number or area).
            3.2.2.2. Give the name of the person reporting the fire and telephone number.
            3.2.2.3. Type of fire (building, grass, gasoline, etc.).
            3.2.2.4. If the fire is small, attempt to extinguish using available fire extinguishers.
            3.2.2.5. Ensure you have a clear/unobstructed means of egress.
            3.2.2.6. Stay low out of heat and smoke.
            3.2.2.7. Close all doors and windows; do not lock.
            3.2.2.8. Secure all classified material if time permits.
            3.2.2.9. Turn off switches to all office fans and ventilators.
            3.2.2.10. Stand by outside the building to direct firefighters to the scene or delegate
            this duty.
            3.2.2.11. Follow any additional procedures as indicated in the facility emergency
            plan or operating instruction, such as removal of aircraft, etc…
     3.3. EMERGENCY VEHICLE RESPONSE: Fire vehicles answering an alarm have the
     right-of-way over traffic. When vehicles with sirens or flashing beacon ray lights approach,
     yield and come to a complete stop. Use extreme caution before proceeding; follow-on units
     may be close behind. Do not follow firefighting equipment to an emergency. Do not enter a
     street or road where fire equipment is stopped with warning lights flashing and do not drive
     over fire hoses unless directed to proceed by firefighters at the scene. Fire apparatus
     equipment answering calls may travel in either direction on a one-way street. No vehicle is
     to follow responding fire units closer than 500 feet.
4. CLASSES OF FIRES. Classes of fires can be explained in simple terms as the “ABCs” of
fires.
TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                                9


   4.1. CLASS “A” FIRES. Class “A” fires consist of ordinary combustibles such as trash,
   paper, cloth, wood, etc. To extinguish, use water or multipurpose dry chemical
   extinguishers.
   4.2. CLASS “B” FIRES. Class “B” fires consist of flammable liquids such as gasoline,
   kerosene, paint, oil, tar, cooking oil, etc. To extinguish, smother the fire by using CO2 or dry
   chemical type extinguishers.
   4.3. CLASS “C” FIRES. Class “C” fires involve electrical equipment in operation or being
   supplied by an electrical power source. To extinguish, use CO2 or dry chemical type
   extinguishers.
NOTE: To prevent electrical shock, shut off power as quickly as possible. Do not use water type
extinguishers
   4.4. CLASS “K” FIRES. Class “K” fires involve combustible cooking media (oils and
   grease). Specific extinguishers are provided in locations where these fires are likely. Do not
   use a Class “K” fire extinguisher on a fire until after the installed fire suppression system has
   been activated as electrical power is shut-off by the extinguishing system.
5. RECOGNITION AND ELIMINATION OF FIRE HAZARDS.
   5.1. THE INSPECTION PROCESS. The primary responsibility for fire prevention and
   compliance with the recommendations of the fire prevention inspector rests with the unit
   commander, functional manager, facility manager and supervisors of the unit being
   inspected. The following procedures shall be complied with during the fire prevention
   inspections:
       5.1.1. The facility manager or an alternate designated by the facility manager at the time
       of inspection shall accompany the fire prevention inspector.
       5.1.2. The fire prevention inspector shall annotate hazards on an AF Form 1487, Fire
       Prevention Visit Report. Copy one of the report will be sent to the organization
       commander, copy two will be issued to the facility manager, and copy three will be kept
       in the Fire Prevention Element suspense file.
       5.1.3. Hazards shall be corrected by the facility manager or supervisor of the unit being
       inspected. Corrective actions and respective dates shall be annotated in the appropriate
       blocks on the form. The report shall be signed by the organization commander and
       returned to the Fire Prevention Element with actions taken to correct or eliminate the
       hazard within the time specified on the AF Form 1487. A copy of the completed form
       shall be maintained in the facility fire prevention binder.
       5.1.4. Fire hazards noted on AF Form 1487, which are not corrected in a timely manner,
       shall be reported through command channels to the installation commander.
       5.1.5. All fire hazards that are classified as Risk Assessment Code (RAC) 1, 2, and 3 and
       not corrected within 30 days shall be processed as outlined in AFI 91-202.
       5.1.6. Fire Safety Deficiencies noted during inspections shall be processed IAW AFI 32-
       10141.
       5.1.7. When hazardous practices or processes are observed during an inspection, the Fire
       Inspector shall recommend that the operation be stopped immediately. The Fire
10                                             TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012


     Inspector will immediately notify the Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention and the Chief,
     Fire & Emergency Services. The Fire Marshal is also notified and should resolution of
     the situation after conferring with the functional manager fail, then the Mission Support
     Group Commander is notified and shall determine if the operation is to continue.
  5.2. PROPER PLACEMENT AND INSPECTION OF PORTABLE AND FLIGHT LINE
  FIRE EXTINGUISHERS.
     5.2.1. Organizations having jurisdiction over aircraft parking areas, or areas where
     engine starts and aircraft maintenance are performed, are responsible for the proper
     placement of flight line fire extinguishers.
     5.2.2. Flight line personnel shall inspect fire extinguishers daily. Flight line personnel
     shall not write on or deface flight line extinguishers in any way. A “quick check” shall
     be conducted to ensure flight line fire extinguishers are operational. The “quick check”
     shall consist of:
        5.2.2.1. Check pressure gauge for proper pressure level.
        5.2.2.2. Check tires for proper inflation.
        5.2.2.3. Check for obvious structural damage to cylinder and hose.
        5.2.2.4. Check to ensure the pin is properly in place and sealed.
        5.2.2.5. Flight line fire extinguishers have not been laid down at any time.
     5.2.3. Flight line fire extinguishers shall be located in a place to preclude the possibility
     of collision or upset by taxiing aircraft.
     5.2.4. Facility managers shall make sure a visual inspection is performed and
     documented for all portable fire extinguishers under their control monthly. Either the tag
     on each fire extinguisher or an extinguisher inspection checklist shall be initialed and
     dated by the person performing the visual inspection. This visual inspection for portable
     fire extinguishers includes:
        5.2.4.1. Extinguisher located in designated place.
        5.2.4.2. No obstruction to access or visibility.
        5.2.4.3. Operating instructions on name plate legible and facing outward.
        5.2.4.4. Safety seals and/or tamper indicators not broken or missing.
        5.2.4.5. No obvious physical damage, corrosion, leakage or clogged nozzle.
        5.2.4.6. Pressure gauge reading or indicator in the operable range or position.
        5.2.4.7. Fullness determined by lifting the extinguisher.
     5.2.5. Deficiencies noted during extinguisher inspections shall be promptly reported to a
     fire extinguisher maintenance contractor for repair.
     5.2.6. Distribution of fire extinguishers shall be in accordance with NFPA 10, AFI 91-
     203 and the guidance of the Fire Prevention Element.
     5.2.7. The using agency shall be liable for lost or damaged fire extinguishers assigned to
     their facility or area of responsibility.
TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                            11


     5.2.8. Fire Extinguisher Purchase and Maintenance. Facility managers and using
     organizations must budget for the purchase and maintenance of fire extinguishers IAW
     AFI 91-203. Maintenance shall be at intervals IAW NFPA 10.
     5.2.9. Fire extinguishers shall be mounted on wall locations designated by the Fire
     Prevention Element.
     5.2.10. Fire extinguishers mounted outside of buildings shall be installed in cabinets or
     have protective coverings suitable for fire extinguishers. Using agencies shall be
     responsible for the procurement of cabinets or protective coverings for outside
     extinguishers.
     5.2.11. For fire extinguishers in or on vehicles or equipment, inspections shall be
     incorporated in the vehicle/equipment checkout procedures.
        5.2.11.1. Mount fire extinguishers in or on vehicles or equipment in approved/listed
        brackets, or otherwise secure them to prevent damage as directed by T.O. or AFI and
        by local fire authority. Fire extinguishers shall not be located on vehicles or
        equipment or in facilities, unless required by directive (e.g., purchase description,
        technical orders [TO], AFIs, NFPA 101) or approved by the fire protection authority.
     5.2.12. Tampering with or malicious use of fire extinguishers is prohibited.
     5.2.13. Fire Protection Inspectors will conduct spot inspections of fire extinguishers
     during fire prevention visits. Monthly inspection documentation shall be made available
     to the inspector during the inspection process.
  5.3. HEATING AND COOKING APPLIANCES.
     5.3.1. Adjustments and servicing of installed heating equipment shall be accomplished
     by qualified Civil Engineer personnel only.
     5.3.2. Cooking in dormitories, transient quarters, and other base facilities is prohibited
     except where authorized cooking facilities have been provided. Microwave ovens, slow
     cookers, and crock pots are permitted for use in dormitories at the dormitory manager’s
     discretion. Where microwave ovens are approved, they must be connected to an
     electrical outlet designated for the microwave. Toaster ovens are approved for use only
     in break rooms provided that they are located on a non-combustible surface and are not
     within 18 inches of combustible materials.
     5.3.3. Where approved residential cooking ranges are located in facilities, the hood and
     filter system shall be cleaned weekly to prevent the accumulation of grease residue.
     5.3.4. IAW UFC 3-600-01 Where residential type cooking ranges are located outside of
     living quarters, an approved residential range top extinguishing system shall be installed
     and connected to the building fire alarm system. An acceptable alternative for ranges
     with electric coil type elements is to purchase and install the Safe-T-Element cooking
     system which consists of cast iron plates that are attached to the existing coil elements of
     a stove and a hidden electronic controller which monitors and controls the temperature of
     each plate. This alternative is only available for existing electric coil type stoves.
     5.3.5. Kitchen ranges, deep fryers, and barbecue grills shall not be operated unattended.
     Barbecue grills and open or enclosed type cooking units shall not be operated on
12                                            TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012


     balconies, under carports or within 10 feet of buildings. Charcoal shall be free of heat
     before discarding.
     5.3.6. Grease fires in kitchens contribute to serious fire losses within family housing. To
     prevent such an incident, do not leave the kitchen unattended while cooking.
     5.3.7. Fireplaces shall be provided with hearth screens, and chimneys shall be inspected
     and cleaned annually by qualified personnel prior to use each fall season in accordance
     with NFPA 211.
     5.3.8. Clothes dryers in government facilities shall be vented to the exterior of the
     building and shall be kept clean and free of lint accumulation at all times. Only approved
     filters will be used in dryers.
     5.3.9. Kerosene heaters and heating units, which produce open flames, vapors, or open
     heating elements are prohibited for use in government facilities.
     5.3.10. Use approved (listed by UL, CSA, FM or other recognized testing laboratory)
     space heaters equipped with automatic shut-off devices that will shut off the heater if it
     tips over. Space heaters should also have an overheat protection device and an automatic
     thermostat control and must be disconnected when not in use.
        5.3.10.1. Plug space heaters directly into a wall receptacle. Do not plug space heaters
        into multiple outlet strips. An extension cord with a space heater must be avoided.
        5.3.10.2. Maintain a 36 inch minimum distance between space heaters and
        combustible material.
        5.3.10.3. The use of portable space heaters must be in accordance with the
        manufacturers’ specifications and have the concurrence of the base energy awareness
        manager.
        5.3.10.4. Do not leave these devices unattended when in use and unplug them at the
        end of the day or shift.
     5.3.11. Flat bottom coffee pots shall be placed on fire resistive nonconductive surfaces.
     5.3.12. Timers for coffee pots or any other equipment are prohibited in government
     facilities .
     5.3.13. Combustible material shall not be stored less than 18 inches from heat producing
     equipment.
  5.4. CONTROL OF SMOKING AND OPEN FLAMES. Smoking is not permitted inside
  buildings and structures on TAFB unless approved by the installation commander.
     5.4.1. IAW AFI 40-102 and AFI 91-203, squadron commanders shall designate and
     approve outdoor tobacco use areas. Coordinate with F&ES Fire Prevention Element to
     ensure tobacco use areas are not within hazardous locations. Forward a copy of the
     commander’s approval letter to the Fire Prevention Element. Outside areas shall be
     indicated by appropriate placards and equipped with approved receptacles for discarding
     smoking material.
     5.4.2. Smoking is not permitted in or within 50 feet of hangars, aircraft, warehouses,
     repair docks, paint and dope shops, gasoline storage or dispensing areas, maintenance
TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                            13


     shops or other similar hazardous locations except where approved by the Fire Prevention
     Element.
     5.4.3. The disposal of smoking material in any container, other than approved containers
     (listed by UL, CSA, or other recognized testing laboratory) specifically designed for
     smoking material, is strictly prohibited. Stencil these containers or cans "SMOKING
     MATERIAL ONLY." Disposal containers shall be emptied weekly or more often as
     necessary.
     5.4.4. The burning of incense and candles are prohibited in government facilities except
     where approved by the Fire Prevention Element.
     5.4.5. Except in approved and designated areas, open fires, camp fires, etc., are
     prohibited on TAFB. Exception to policy may be granted with written permission from
     the Chief, Fire & Emergency Services and the Tyndall Forestry Manager. To request
     permission, submit a letter to F&ES indicating date, location, duration of fire and
     responsible parties. The requester shall provide the appropriate extinguishing equipment.
  5.5. STORAGE AND HANDLING OF EXPLOSIVES AND HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS.
  The storage and handling of explosives and hazardous chemicals shall be in accordance with
  AFMAN 91-201.
     5.5.1. The Fire & Emergency Services Flight shall be notified by the responsible
     organization of all movements and relocation of explosive materials outside explosive
     storage areas.
     5.5.2. The use and/or storage of fireworks are strictly prohibited on base unless approved
     in writing by the Mission Support Group Commander.
     5.5.3. Fire/chemical symbols must be posted on all facilities/areas storing explosives,
     chemical and radioactive materials. In accordance with the appropriate directives, F&ES
     must be notified immediately by the responsible organization of all changes of
     fire/chemical symbols.
  5.6. HOUSEKEEPING. Buildings and outside areas must be kept neat and free from
  unnecessary accumulation of combustible materials, trash, and clutter.
     5.6.1. Attics, electrical rooms, communications rooms and mechanical/boiler rooms shall
     not be used for storage.
     5.6.2. Combustible rubbish shall be placed in approved containers and shall be emptied
     daily or more often as necessary. Contract janitorial service does not relieve building
     occupants of this responsibility.
     5.6.3. Materials awaiting pick up by base recycling services shall not be stored outside of
     provided containers. Excess materials generated between pick-up times shall be taken by
     facility occupants to on-base recycling containers.
     5.6.4. Oily rags, waste, trash and other materials subject to spontaneous combustion shall
     be stored and properly identified in approved metal containers with tightly closed lids.
     5.6.5. Oil or paint stained clothing shall be stored in well ventilated metal lockers and/or
     metal containers.
14                                            TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012


     5.6.6. Combustible packing materials shall be kept in original bales until used. Broken
     bales shall be kept in metal or metal lined bins with automatic self-closing covers
     equipped with fusible links.
     5.6.7. All bird nests shall be removed by building occupants. If the occupant is unable to
     remove the nest due to height or safety, call Civil Engineer Service Call at ext. 3-4949.
     5.6.8. Dumpsters shall not be placed within 25 feet of buildings.
  5.7. USE AND STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS AND GASES.                             Using
  organizations shall closely monitor these materials. Storage and handling of flammable
  liquids shall be in accordance with AFI 91-203, NFPA 30 and NFPA 54. Flammable liquids
  and gases shall be stored only in buildings designated for that purpose. “FLAMMABLE--
  KEEP FIRE AWAY” shall be posted.
     5.7.1. Facility managers of flammable and combustible liquid warehouses, laboratory
     facilities and storage buildings must provide information to F&ES that includes the
     hazardous materials contained in installation facilities, their locations and emergency
     procedures to be followed.
     5.7.2. Drums, cylinders, and other containers used for storage of flammable liquids or
     gases shall not be integrated with other products in general storage areas. Flammable
     liquids and/or gases shall be stored in locations specifically constructed according to
     current directives for this type storage.
     5.7.3. Incompatible materials shall be stored separately, or when stored in close
     proximity to each other, shall be separated by an approved type firewall or other
     approved firebreak.
     5.7.4. Compressed gas cylinders shall be securely anchored.
     5.7.5. Propane and acetylene cylinders must be transported, operated and stored in the
     upright position.
     5.7.6. In areas where liquid oxygen is used or stored, equipment and areas shall be kept
     free of oil, grease or other combustibles.
     5.7.7. When leaks or spills are detected during servicing, the operation shall be stopped.
     Spills shall be reported to F&ES immediately.
     5.7.8. When aircraft are serviced with fuel prior to being moved to shops or hangars, drip
     pans and cans shall be used to contain venting of fuel.
     5.7.9. Flammable liquids such as gasoline, kerosene, alcohol, ether, paint and dopes shall
     be stored in accordance with applicable regulations.
     5.7.10. Industrial facilities requiring special consideration for incidental storage inside
     buildings will be authorized only after the following requirements are met:
        5.7.10.1. Incidental storage will be in industrial areas only.
        5.7.10.2. Storage will be in metal cabinets stenciled “FLAMMABLE--KEEP FIRE
        AWAY.”
TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                         15


        5.7.10.3. Storage will be limited to 1 gallon of Class I or 10 gallons of Class II and
        Class III liquids, not to exceed 10 gallons total per cabinet, in closed containers.
        Storage will be limited to a 5-day supply of flammables in a metal cabinet, and in
        closed containers not to exceed limits as specified in AFI 91-203, paragraphs 22.5.7
        and 22.5.9.
        5.7.10.4. Flammable paints, oils, and varnishes in 1 to 5 gallon containers, used for
        building maintenance purposes, may be stored temporarily in closed metal containers
        outside approved storage cabinets or rooms if kept at the job site for less than 10
        calendar days.
        5.7.10.5. The Fire Prevention Element shall be consulted prior to establishing
        incidental storage areas in industrial shops.
     5.7.11. Flammable liquids shall be stored and transported in approved type safety
     containers only.
     5.7.12. Gasoline, kerosene, benzene or other highly flammable liquids shall not be used
     for cleaning purposes. Use only approved type solvents.
     5.7.13. Transfer of flammable liquids from one container to another shall be done when
     containers are electrically interconnected (bonded). When flammables are not being
     transferred from one container to another, there is no requirement to have the containers
     bonded
     5.7.14. Drip pans shall be placed underneath all flammable/combustible dispensing drum
     racks.
     5.7.15. Dipping and coating equipment shall comply with NFPA 34. Dip tanks
     containing flammable solvents shall have a cover operated by a foot pedal and equipped
     with a fusible link. Overflow pipes shall be installed to carry off and prevent burning
     liquids from overflowing onto the floor. Adequate drains to safely dispose of tank
     contents shall be provided and lead to approved fuel separators.
     5.7.16. Only approved type safety containers shall be used for dispensing flammable
     liquids into mowers or gasoline powered equipment. Prior to off-season storage of small
     gasoline-powered equipment, they shall be thoroughly cleaned, gas tanks emptied and
     spark plugs disconnected.
     5.7.17. Occupants in family housing are encouraged to store only the amount of
     flammable liquid that is needed. Keep flammable liquids in locations inaccessible to
     children.
  5.8. FUEL SPILL CLASSIFICATION. Fuel spills are classified in accordance with T.O.
  00-25-172.
     5.8.1. CLASS I - Spills involving an area less than 2 feet in any plain dimension, or not
     over 50 square feet in area, and not of continuous nature.
     5.8.2. CLASS II - Spills involving an area not over 10 feet in any plain dimension, or
     over 50 square feet in area, and not continuous nature.
     5.8.3. CLASS III - Spills involving an area over 10 feet in any plain dimension, or over
     50 square feet in area, and of a continuous nature.
16                                             TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012


     5.8.4. Oil and hydraulic spills are removed by the agency responsible for the spill. A
     suitable oil and water absorbent compound may be used for this purpose. (DO NOT
     APPLY WATER.)
     5.8.5. PROCEDURES:
         5.8.5.1. The using organization provides a fire guard to determine if the spill creates
         a fire exposure to aircraft or equipment. As a rule, Class I spills are monitored until
         aircraft is taxied or fuel has dissipated.
         5.8.5.2. Class II fuel spills shall be cleaned up with absorbent pads by the using
         organization.
         5.8.5.3. Class III fuel spills are declared ramp accidents/incidents and shall be treated
         as a ground emergency. The Senior Fire Officer at the scene shall determine if turrets
         or handlines shall be utilized to maintain a foam blanket. All equipment shall be set
         upwind/uphill when possible. Positioning shall be IAW aircraft pre-fire plans. All
         nonessential personnel shall be directed to leave the immediate area of the spill.
         5.8.5.4. Environmental engineers shall be contacted for appropriate action regarding
         disposing of all absorbent materials used to control chemical/fuel spills.
  5.9. ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION, EQUIPMENT AND APPLIANCES. Installation,
  adjustments or alterations of electrical wiring or installed appliances shall be accomplished
  only by Civil Engineer electricians, authorized contractors or licensed electricians designated
  by the Civil Engineer.
     5.9.1. Extension cords and non-surge protected electrical adapters shall not be used as
     fixed wiring. Electrical cords shall not exceed length as recommended by the
     manufacturer and shall not be spliced, stapled to walls, placed under rugs or draped over
     nails, beams, rafters or pipes. Surge protection devices shall not be plugged in to other
     surge protection devices or uninterruptible power supplies (UPS). They shall be of
     sufficient size to safely carry the electrical load.
     5.9.2. Appliances such as coffee pots, microwave ovens and refrigerators shall not be
     plugged into surge protection strips or UPS. These appliances shall be plugged directly
     into wall outlets.
     5.9.3. The manufacturer’s intended use of a surge strip is to protect equipment from
     unexpected surges in the electrical voltage which could damage or destroy equipment,
     and not to merely extend the flow of electrical energy to reach the equipment at a
     convenient location, which is the function of an extension cord. The use of surge strips
     as extension cords is prohibited.
     5.9.4. All electrical equipment and appliances shall be in compliance with the National
     Electric Code and in good repair.
     5.9.5. All electrical devices and appliances, except those required for refrigeration or
     deemed mission essential, shall be turned off at the end of the day. Plug-in devices such
     as hair dryers, curling irons, clothing iron and soldering guns shall be disconnected from
     their electrical source.
TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                            17


     5.9.6. Broken electrical receptacles and/or frayed wiring of fixed equipment shall be
     reported to the Base Civil Engineer Service Call Desk at 3-4949 for necessary repair.
     5.9.7. Fuses and circuit breakers shall not exceed the rated capacity designed for the
     circuit. Electrical panels and circuit control boxes shall be marked to identify the area
     controlled.
     5.9.8. Combustible or flammable shades, decorations or materials shall not be used on or
     over light bulbs. Clothing, decorations or other objects shall not be draped or hung from
     electrical wiring.
     5.9.9. Adequate measures shall be taken to prevent ignition of flammable or explosive
     vapors by electrical equipment. In areas where such vapors exist, all electrical motors,
     appliances, switches and receptacles shall be of an approved explosive-proof type and be
     installed in accordance with recognized criteria. Light bulbs for high wattage assemblies
     shall be of an approved type and protected against accidental breakage.
     5.9.10. Clearance between light fixtures and combustible materials shall be at least 18
     inches in all facilities.
     5.9.11. Decorative lighting equipment shall bear the UL label of approval or equivalent
     and shall be used according to manufacturer’s instructions. No decorative materials,
     temporary or permanent, shall be used unless such materials are fire retardant.
  5.10. PAINTING. When painting buildings, all unused paint, wiping rags, drop cloths, and
  paint stained work clothing shall be stored in approved metal containers.
     5.10.1. Thoroughly clean all paint spray rooms, paint rooms and equipment at the end of
     the workday. Remove all waste paper containers from the building at the end of each day
     and have proper venting systems in working order. Spray painting shall be done only in
     accordance with current Air Force criteria.
     5.10.2. Flammable paints, oils and varnishes in 1 to 5 gallon containers, used for
     building maintenance purposes, may be stored temporarily in closed metal containers
     outside approved storage cabinets or rooms if kept at the job site for less than 10 calendar
     days. Incidental storage must be approved by the Fire Prevention Element.
  5.11. VEHICLE PARKING AND OPERATION. Vehicles shall not be parked in any fire
  lane or approach to any building that would obstruct or delay the response of firefighting
  apparatus.
     5.11.1. Vehicles/motorcycles shall not be parked or stored inside buildings or structures
     other than those specifically designated for that purpose. Any request to deviate for short
     periods must be approved by the Chief, Fire & Emergency Services, Chief of Ground
     Safety and the commander having jurisdiction.
     5.11.2. Vehicles or any other type obstruction shall not be parked within 15 feet of fire
     hydrants.
     5.11.3. Petroleum fuel trucks or trailers shall not be parked where the ground slopes
     toward any building, stored material or storm drain unless there is an adequate protective
     ditch or dike between the vehicle and building, stored material or drains.
18                                             TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012


     5.11.4. Internal combustion engine powered materials handling equipment and vehicles
     shall be equipped with flame and spark arresters on carburetors and exhausts as
     prescribed in applicable T.O.’s and National Fire Codes when they are operated in
     hazardous areas.
  5.12. WELDING AND CUTTING. Obtain approval from the Fire Prevention Element
  before welding, cutting and brazing operations are performed in any location other than
  approved welding shops. The welding and cutting checklist requirement shall be reviewed at
  the work site to ensure all safety precautions have been taken before AF Form 592, USAF
  Welding, Cutting and Brazing Permit, or automated form will be issued.
  5.13. SHOPS, HANGARS, WAREHOUSES AND STORAGE.                            Store all supplies,
  equipment or materials in such a manner as not to block exits, interfere with firefighting
  operations or block accessibility or visibility of fire extinguishers. Maintain adequate fire
  aisles for access to controls of automatic fire protection.
     5.13.1. Keep fire doors closed, except where controlled by automatic closing device.
     Exercise care that fire doors are not blocked at any time.
     5.13.2. Supervisory personnel of hangars, shops and warehouses shall conduct
     inspections at the close of the workday to ascertain that all electrical appliances are
     turned off, plugs are disconnected and trash is properly disposed of. They shall also
     check all exterior doors to make sure they are clear of obstructions.
     5.13.3. For outside storage, a clear space of at least 15 feet shall be maintained between
     outside walls of buildings and stored materials. Outside storage materials shall not in any
     case block access roads or lanes to or between buildings.
     5.13.4. For inside storage, a minimum of 24 inches shall be maintained between
     materials and ceiling unless approved by the Fire Prevention Element. An 18 inch
     clearance shall be maintained around light fixtures.
     5.13.5. Stored materials shall not be stacked above rafters or within 18 inches of
     sprinkler heads. A clearance of 36 inches or greater shall be maintained as dictated by
     the type and height of stored materials. When a clearance of 36 inches or greater is
     required, specific direction will be provided by F&ES fire prevention personnel.
     5.13.6. All buildings and areas used for packing or crating must be kept free of
     accumulation of dust and waste material of a combustible nature. Use only metal self-
     closing containers with fusible links for storage of highly combustible packing materials.
     5.13.7. General storage is prohibited in office occupancies, except for the storage of
     routine office supplies. Areas used for storage in office occupancies must conform to
     NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, provisions for protection from hazards and must be either
     protected by an installed fire sprinkler system or separated from other areas in the facility
     by 1 hour fire rated construction or both when the storage presents a high hazard.
6. FIRE EVACUATION.
  6.1. FACILITY EMERGENCY PLAN. In the event fire or smoke is detected by the
  building’s fire alarm detection system or observed by personnel, the emergency plan shall be
  initiated. All occupants shall evacuate the building immediately and locate to a designated
TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                             19


  meeting place at least 75 feet away from the building. Supervisors shall conduct a head
  count for accountability of all personnel.
     6.1.1. Assigned employees shall assist and guide visitors to safe exits so that no one
     remains in the building.
     6.1.2. Personnel, including employees, shall not be allowed to reenter the facility until
     the senior fire official terminates the emergency.
     6.1.3. Facility managers shall maintain a current emergency plan in the facility fire
     prevention binder.
  6.2. FIRE EVACUATION/DRILL REQUIREMENTS. Facility managers and supervisors
  are responsible for ensuring facilities/areas conduct fire evacuations/drills as outlined below:
     6.2.1. Business occupancies, places of public assembly, dormitories, mercantile, aircraft
     hangars and docks, and industrial type occupancies shall conduct annual drills.
     6.2.2. Area fire evacuation drills shall be required semi-annually in munitions storage
     sites, petroleum oxygen lubricants parking, bulk storage sites and similar areas.
     6.2.3. Medical clinic evacuation drills shall be conducted annually.
     6.2.4. Educational occupancies and nurseries are required to practice fire evacuation
     drills procedures monthly, regardless of occupant capacity.
     6.2.5. In cases of combined occupancy, the area having the more frequent requirement
     shall apply to the entire facility. Facility managers or supervisors shall maintain
     documentation of such drills and record, as a minimum, date and time conducted number
     of personnel involved, and results.
     6.2.6. The Fire Prevention Element shall initiate additional fire evacuation drills as
     deemed necessary. The activation of installed fire evacuation and alarm systems in
     conjunction with fire evacuation drills is prohibited unless approved by the Chief, Fire &
     Emergency Services or the Assistant Chief of Fire Prevention.
     6.2.7. Facility Managers shall maintain a current emergency plan for each facility in their
     fire safety book. A copy of the emergency plan must be provided to F&ES Fire
     Prevention Element for review and approval..
  6.3. OCCUPANT CAPACITIES. The number of persons permitted in places of public
  assembly at any time shall be limited to the number that can be safely evacuated in an
  emergency. The Fire Prevention Element shall make this determination. Maximum
  occupant load must be maintained on file by the facility manager, and posted near the main
  exit of each room not equipped with fixed seating.
     6.3.1. An operating instruction shall be written by the assembly manager that requires a
     statement of maximum occupancy load requirement be included in all letters of
     agreement or contracts of functions.
  6.4. EXITS. During periods of occupancy, no exit shall be locked, bolted or otherwise
  fastened so that doors cannot be opened from the inside by using an ordinary latch, knob, or
  by pressure on the release device.
20                                             TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012


     6.4.1. Post approved signs to identify exits leading directly to the outside of the building
     and to identify primary routes to such exits. When exits and primary egress routes are
     obvious, the posting of exit signs is not required. All exit signs must meet the
     requirements of NFPA 101, Life Safety Code.
         6.4.1.1. When illuminated exit signs are required, they must operate at all times
         during periods of building occupancy. Non-functioning exit lights shall be reported
         immediately to the Civil Engineer Squadron, (CSOL) Service Call at 3-4949.
     6.4.2. Aisles, stairways/stairwells, and passageways shall be kept clear at all times.
     Stairwells shall not be used for storage.
     6.4.3. Exit doors and panic hardware found to be in need of repair shall be reported
     immediately to the Civil Engineer Squadron, (CSOL) Service Call at 3-4949.
7. SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.
  7.1. DRAPERIES, CURTAINS AND DECORATIONS. Only certified fire retardant
  composition draperies and curtains may be installed in buildings.
     7.1.1. Notify the Fire Prevention Element prior to installing new draperies or curtains.
     7.1.2. The purchaser must secure, for his/her own protection, a written guarantee from
     the manufacturer or dealer indicating the material is fire retardant.
     7.1.3. Installation and replacement of carpets and rugs shall comply with the Engineering
     Technical Letter (ETL) 07-4, dated 11 May 2000.
     7.1.4. Under no circumstances shall open flames, including candles, be permitted for
     decorative schemes. Exception: Candles may be used for religious purposes in Air Force
     Chapels when approved by the Base Chaplain. Candles used in club facilities shall be of
     the approved hurricane type design.
     7.1.5. Live Christmas trees are prohibited in government facilities. Only approved
     (listed by UL, CSA, or other recognized testing laboratory) fire resistant artificial trees
     are permitted.
     7.1.6. No decorative materials, temporary or permanent, shall be used unless such
     materials are fire retardant.
     7.1.7. Decorations shall not be tied or attached to any part of the facility’s fire
     suppression/alarm system.
  7.2. FIRE PREVENTION TRAINING. Supervisors will provide fire prevention training to
  all newly assigned personnel within 30 days of their arrival at Tyndall. This training may be
  conducted by supervisors or safety representatives. Documentation of the training shall be in
  accordance with AFI 91-202. Annual training shall include all of the following at a
  minimum:
     7.2.1. The fire evacuation signal in their work area.
     7.2.2. The fire suppression system signal (if different from fire evacuation signal).
     7.2.3. Other evacuation signals in their work area (if provided).
TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012                                                         21


     7.2.4. Specific actions to take when becoming aware of a fire or other emergency
     (Facility Emergency Plan).
     7.2.5. When to manually activate fire suppression systems (if provided).
     7.2.6. Specific actions required to activate fire suppression system (if provided)
     7.2.7. Specific actions to activate emergency evacuation signaling systems.
     7.2.8. Primary and secondary egress routes from all work areas.
     7.2.9. Location of fire extinguishers (if provided).
     7.2.10. When and how to use fire extinguisher (if provided).
  7.3. All military, civilian, and contract personnel are required to have fire extinguisher
  training annually. Documentation of the training shall be in accordance with AFI 91-202.
     7.3.1. Fire Prevention personnel are available to conduct fire prevention training to any
     organization, functional or social group upon request.
  7.4. BUILDING MODIFICATION. AF Form 332, Work Request, must be used to request
  and obtain approval for all projects prior to starting work. Modifications which do not
  conform to standards outlined in UFC-3-600-01 shall not be approved. Any construction that
  is accomplished which does not meet these requirements must be removed by the responsible
  individual. The Fire Prevention Element must review and coordinate on all work requests.
  See AF Form 332 for coordination instructions.
  7.5. CONTRACTORS/CONCESSIONAIRES. Contractors/concessionaires are required to
  comply with this directive while working on TAFB or areas under its jurisdiction.
  Contractors/concessionaires shall be issued written instructions governing fire safety
  requirements for commercial contractors.
  7.6. UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER MAINS AND FIRE HYDRANTS. Only
  members of F&ES or authorized representatives of the Base Civil Engineer are authorized to
  turn on or use fire hydrants except when approved by the Chief, Fire & Emergency Services.
     7.6.1. Water mains and fire hydrants shall not be shut off nor shall any maintenance be
     performed that shall interfere with the water supply without first notifying F&ES.
  7.7. GAS LEAKS. Immediately upon discovery of a gas leak, evacuate the facility or
  quarters and notify F&ES using the emergency reporting number, 911. Do not activate
  installed fire alarm systems.




                                           JOHN K. McMULLEN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                           Commander
 22                                             TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTIVE INFORMATION

References
AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, dated 26 March 2012
AFI 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services Program, dated 9 September 2008
AFI 32-10141, Planning and Programming Fire Safety Deficiency Correction Projects, dated 3
March 2011
AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards, dated 12 January 2011
AFI 91-202, US Air Force Mishap Prevention Program, dated 5 August 2011
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, dated 15 June 2012
NFPA 101, Life Safety Code, 2012 Edition
NFPA 34, Standard for Dipping, Coating and Printing Processes Using Flammable or
Combustible Liquids, 2011 Edition
NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code, 2012 Edition
NFPA 54, National Fuel Gas Code, 2012 Edition
NFPA 211, Standard for Chimneys, Fireplaces, Vents and Solid Fuel-Burning Appliances, 2010
Edition
NFPA 10, Standard for Portable Fire Extinguishers, 2010 Edition
NFPA 96, Standard for Ventilation Control and Fire Protection of Commercial Cooking
Operations, 2011 Edition
TO 00-25-172, Ground Servicing of Aircraft and Static Grounding/Bonding, dated 2 August
2012
Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-600-01, Design: Fire Protection Engineering for Facilities,
dated 26 September 2006, with Change 1, dated 14 July 2009
UFC 3-601-02, Operations and Maintenance: Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Fire
Protection Systems, dated 8 September 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Report
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 592, USAF Welding, Cutting and Brazing Permit

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AFIs—Air Force Instructions
ACMI—Aircraft Maneuvering and Instrumentation
TYNDALLAFBI32-2001 11 OCTOBER 2012          23


CSA—Canadian Standards Association
CSOL—Chugach Support Operations Logistics
ETL—engineering technical letter
F&ES—Fire & Emergency Services
FM—Factory Mutual
IAW—in accordance with
RAC—risk assessment code
RWP—recurring work program
SFO—Senior Fire Officer
TAFB—Tyndall Air Force Base
T.O.—technical order
UL—Underwriters Laboratories
UPS—uninterruptible power supplies
