BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE                                                     34-201

                                                                           26 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                 Force Support

                                                        UNIT ENHANCEMENT PROGRAMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.

OPR: 325 FSS/FSR                                                     Certified by: 325 MSG/CC
                                                                            (Col Michael Fleck)
Supersedes:   TYNDALLAFBI 34-201,                                                       Pages: 2
              26 OCT 2000


This instruction implements directives contained in AFPD 34-2, Managing Nonappropriated
Funds (NAFs). It establishes a uniform system of policies and procedures for management and
accountability of Unit Enhancement Programs managed by the Tyndall AFB Morale, Welfare,
and Recreation Fund (MWRF). It applies to those involved in using unit enhancement program
funds on Tyndall Air Force Base (TAFB). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

FSS Bucks authorized use at MWR facilities.
1. POLICIES.
   1.1. 325 FW/CC authorizes organizations to spend up to $1.00 per fiscal year per military
   and civilian employee (military units assigned within a 15 mile radius) assigned to their
   organizations for unit parties and picnics.
   1.2. The only authorized use of Unit Enhancement Program funds is for unit parties and
   picnics. Organization’s POC can purchase food, drinks (excluding alcoholic beverages),
   paper or plastic plates and cups, napkins, utensils, etc. associated with a party or picnic
   including catering the function, rental equipment.
2                                                TYNDALLAFBI34-201 26 OCTOBER 2011


       1.2.1. Commanders or designated individual will be issued “FSS Bucks” coupons to
       make purchases. “FSS Bucks” expire 30 September each year.
       1.2.2. Bulk food, beverage, or picnic items are purchased at the Heritage Club using the
       “FSS Bucks.”
       1.2.3. “FSS Bucks” coupons are only authorized for expenditures at the following
       activities: Heritage Club, Pizza Pub, Raptor Lanes Bowling Center, Beacon Beach
       Marina, Bonita Bay, and the Pelican Golf Course. Use of “FSS Bucks” at other on-base
       facilities, to include Commissary and AAFES activities, is not authorized.
    1.3. Renting off-base buildings or other facilities or paying for entertainers are not
    authorized uses of the Unit Enhancement Program expenditure authority. The expenditure
    authority can be used to rent on-base facilities or equipment such as boats, equipment rental
    items, reserved pavilions, etc.
    1.4. All military and civilian employees assigned to the organization are eligible to
    participate in the organization party or picnic.
    1.5. Record Unit Enhancement Program expenditures in activity code 1502, social events, on
    the MWR Fund financial statement.
    1.6. The “FSS Bucks” coupons are not redeemable for cash.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES.
    2.1. The 325th Force Support Squadron Resource Management Chief (RMC) budgets for
    Unit Enhancement Program expenditures in the rolling four quarters budget as described in
    paragraph 1.1 using fiscal year end strength for the computation. Organizations with
    contractor employees will submit a letter justifying the number of full time assigned
    contractor employees to be included.
    2.2. The RMC or designated representative notifies each organizational commander of the
    expenditure authority amount available to his organization.
    2.3. The unit commander will appoint a responsible person to be the POC for the unit party
    or picnic to coordinate with the RMC.
3. PROCEDURES.
    3.1. The Force Support Commander or designated representative will annually brief
    squadron and group commanders on the Unit Enhancement Program expenditure authority.
    The RMC or designated representative will provide squadron and group commanders their
    authorized “FSS Bucks” coupons in the month of October each year.




                                            JAMES S. BROWNE, Brig Gen USAF
                                            Commander, 325th Fighter Wing
