BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE                                               INSTRUCTION 32-7003

                                                                               21 MARCH 2011

                                                                  TYNDALL AIRFORCE BASE

                                                                                INSTRUCTION

                                                                                  Civil Engineer

                                                  BEACH VEHICLE ACCESS PROCEDURES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 325 CES/CEN                                                     Certified by: 325 CES/CEN
Supersedes: N/A                                                                 (Mr R. N. Bates)
                                                                                        Pages: 4


This instruction implements AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality. It prescribes policy and
procedures for using any motorized vehicle accessing non-designated or non-maintained
roadways leading to any of the beaches along Tyndall’s 110 miles of shoreline as well as the
beaches themselves. This instruction applies to all persons, civilian and military. This
instruction applies to all vehicular beach access issues, including all training, emergency, and
non-emergency access situations. This instruction applies to all squadrons, tenant organizations,
and contractors on Tyndall AFB as well as off-base units requiring beach access. This
instruction ensures protection of coastal threatened and endangered species and plant
communities. This instruction is punitive and violation of this policy or procedures is punishable
under Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice, for military offenders and in Federal
Magistrate’s Court for civilian offenders. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level,
but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to
certification and approval. It applies to individuals at all levels who prepare, manage, review,
certify, approve, disseminate and/or use official Air Force publications and forms, including Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted
otherwise. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
 2                                                 TYNDALLAFBI32-7003 17 MARCH 2011


accordance with the Air Force Records                     Disposition    Schedule     (RDS)     at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
1. POLICY.
     1.1. Unapproved vehicle access to any coastal beach on Tyndall AFB is prohibited. The
     325th Civil Engineer Squadron (325 CES), Natural Resources Flight, must approve vehicle
     access to beaches. Approval must be obtained prior to initiation of beach access, except for
     emergency response vehicles dispatched for medical or mission emergencies.
     1.2. Emergency response vehicles may access beaches for medical or mission emergencies
     without prior approval from Natural Resources, but must report each vehicle beach access
     event within 3 hours to 325 CES, Natural Resources Office, during normal business hours
     Monday through Friday or the 325th Security Forces Squadron (325 SFS) law enforcement
     desk on weekends, holidays, and evenings. The law enforcement desk must immediately
     notify the Natural Resources chief or wildlife biologist.
     1.3. All non-emergency beach access requests must be submitted in writing by the
     organization commander or their designated representative to the Natural Resources chief,
     325 CES/CEN (Stop 42), a minimum of 2 weeks prior to the requested beach access date.
     Written requests should include a reason or purpose to access the beach, dates, times,
     description of activities, personnel, types of vehicles, number of vehicles, and map of
     proposed vehicle movements on the beach. Beach access is not authorized until written
     authorization is granted by the Natural Resources chief or wildlife biologist.
     1.4. All emergency and non-emergency vehicular access to Tyndall beaches must occur
     through the gate on the east side of the boardwalk at the Tyndall beach house. All vehicular
     access to East Beach on the east end of Crooked Island must occur through the gate at the
     Crooked Island east parking area or other designated location described in the authorization
     letter.
     1.5. Vehicle operators shall comply with the following conservation measures:
        1.5.1. No non-emergency daytime (sunrise to sunset) beach access or driving on the gulf
        beach front shall occur prior to completion of daily sea turtle nest survey and protection
        measures from May 15 to mid-September.
        1.5.2. All vehicles (except human safety, medical, or mission emergencies) shall be
        driven at speeds less than 10 miles per hour (16.1 km per hour)
        1.5.3. From May 1 through October 31, all driving along the beach shoreline shall be
        seaward of the wrack or debris line (previous high tide) or just above it during high tide
        conditions.
        1.5.4. From November 1 through April 30, all driving along the beach shoreline shall be
        just landward of the wrack or debris line (previous high tide).
        1.5.5. Headlights shall be used on all vehicles accessing and driving on the beach at
        night except as noted in para 1.5.6 below. Vehicles with engines on but at rest for more
        than 1 minute shall switch to parking lights.
TYNDALLAFBI32-7003 17 MARCH 2011                                                                 3


     1.5.6. If an adult sea turtle or hatchling sea turtles are observed on the beach, all vehicles
     (except emergency related) shall stop, shut off the vehicle engine, switch from headlights
     to parking lights (nighttime only), and all persons shall remain in the vehicle until the sea
     turtle(s) return(s) to the sea. All encounters with sea turtles or crawls seen on the beach
     with no associated marked nests, will be reported immediately to the Natural Resources
     Office during normal business hours Monday through Friday or 325 SFS law
     enforcement desk on weekends, holidays and evenings. The law enforcement desk must
     immediately notify the Natural Resources chief or wildlife biologist.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES.
  2.1. All organizations that require vehicle access to coastal beaches for emergency or other
  mission activities are required to adhere to this instruction and incorporate it into their
  standard operating procedures manual. The organization commander or his designated
  representative is responsible for ensuring that all personnel are briefed on this instruction.
  2.2. Natural Resources Flight shall conduct an annual assessment by February of each year
  to determine what organizations, squadrons, or flights continue to or have a need for beach
  access and driving. Natural Resources Flight shall then provide a reminder of new notice
  about the Base Operating Instruction or policy by April of each year, to all affected
  organizations, squadrons, or flights.
  2.3. The Natural Resources Flight is responsible for evaluating written requests for vehicle
  beach access. Natural Resources will provide a written response to the requester that will
  include conditions and limitations for each beach access event.
  2.4. Individuals accessing beaches by vehicle must have a copy of the authorization letter in
  their possession. The person requesting beach vehicle access is responsible for ensuring
  compliance with the conditions and limitations provided in the authorization letter.
  2.5. The Natural Resources Flight is responsible for making a site inspection of the beach
  within 12 hours of each beach access event. Natural Resources will assess the impact of all
  vehicle beach access events on threatened and endangered species. Natural Resources will
  prescribe and implement immediate habitat management procedures to alleviate potential
  threats to protected species caused by beach access events. The requester is liable for costs
  and reimbursement to the Natural Resources Flight for correcting beach damage caused by
  negligence or the requester’s failure to adhere to the conditions and limitations of the
  authorization letter.
  2.6. The 325 SFS is responsible for immediately contacting Natural Resources personnel if
  an emergency vehicle beach access is reported to the law enforcement desk.
  2.7. The 325 SFS and 325 CES Natural Resources Flight are responsible for enforcing
  compliance with this instruction.
 4                                            TYNDALLAFBI32-7003 17 MARCH 2011



3. Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                        MICHAEL E. SLINKARD, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander, 325th Fighter Wing
