BY ORDER OF THE                                                TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
FIGHTER WING COMMANDER                                              INSTRUCTION 10-204
TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
                                                                                27 JUNE 2012

                                                                                   Operations

                                                              AUGMENTATION PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.

OPR: 325 FSS/FSMP                                     Certified by: 325 MSG/CC (Col William
                                                                                  C. Grund)
Supersedes:   TYNDALLAFBI 10-204                                                  Pages: 10
              7 February 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 10-2, Readiness, in accordance with Air
Force Pamphlet 10-243, Augmentation Duty. It applies to all wing and tenant units assigned,
attached, or associated to the 325th Fighter Wing that are physically located at Tyndall AFB.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the
OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. It applies to
individuals at all levels who prepare, manage, review, certify, approve, disseminate and/or use
official Air Force publications and forms, including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and
Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted otherwise. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changed name of the Resource Augmentation Duty (READY) Program to the Augmentation
Duty Program. Added ―deploy‖ to the list of exceptions and replaced ―pregnant‖ with ―become
medically disqualified‖. Added unit’s responsibility to schedule and monitor M-16 and M-9
qualifications in Arming Group A as outlined in AFI 36-2226. Added SFS augmentees are
required to meet the training requirements as outlined in AFI 36-2225 and SFS conducts training
 2                                                    TYNDALLAFBI10-204 27 JUNE 2012


quarterly. Removed reference to AFMAN 36-2108 since it is obsolete. Deleted Deployment
Control Center (DCC) and Crisis Action Team Support (CATS) augmentation requirements.
1. POLICY. The Augmentation Duty Program identifies, places, and trains personnel to meet
augmentor needs for installation-level exercises, contingencies, wartime, or emergency
situations. Augmentation-trained personnel should not deploy in their augmentation duty. They
may be dispatched from their home station to assist with off-base (or off-installation)
emergencies whenever the use of DoD personnel have been authorized IAW AFPAM 10-243,
Augmentation Duty.
2. STRUCTURE OF THE AUGMENTATION REVIEW BOARD (ARB) AND
AUGMENTATION WORKING GROUP.
     2.1. The ARB will meet at least annually or as directed by the 325 FW/CV. The board
     consists of the following personnel:
        2.1.1. Chairman – 325 FW Vice Commander
        2.1.2. Members – 325 FW Group Commanders (equivalent or deputies), tenant
        organization equivalents, and Logistics Readiness Division Director
        2.1.3. Advisors – 325th Force Support Squadron (FSS) Commander, FSS Manpower &
        Personnel Flight Superintendent (FSM), Manpower and Organization Section (FSMM),
        325th Civil Engineering Squadron (CES) Commander, and 325th Security Forces
        Squadron (SFS) Commander
        2.1.4. Wing Augmentation Program Coordinator - As appointed by 325 FW/CV
        2.1.5. Recorder - Alternate Wing Augmentation Program Coordinator, as appointed by
        325 FW/CV
     2.2. The Augmentation Working Group will meet at least once quarterly prior to the ARB
     meeting or as deemed necessary by the wing augmentation program coordinator. The group
     consists of the following personnel:
        2.2.1. Chairman – 325 FW Augmentation Program Coordinator or 325 FSS/FSM
        2.2.2. Members – Group Augmentation Program POCs and all augmentee users
        2.2.3. Advisors – Manpower and Organization Section
3. PROCEDURES.
     3.1. Taskings.
        3.1.1. Augmentation program taskings will be managed at the group/CC level. Groups
        will appoint a group Augmentation Program coordinator and alternate to help coordinate
        Augmentation actions. Squadron commanders will appoint, in writing, a primary and
        alternate Augmentation Program coordinator to coordinate all Augmentation issues.
        Appointment letters for all group coordinators will be sent to 325 FSS/FSMP (Attn:
        Wing Augmentation Program Coordinator). A new letter must be accomplished and sent
        to the wing augmentation program coordinator each time there is a change.
        3.1.2. The Augmentation Review Board (ARB) will determine group taskings for
        augmentees to meet wing mission requirements. Any changes to the wing augmentation
TYNDALLAFBI10-204 27 JUNE 2012                                                                   3


     tasking must be approved by the 325 FW/CV. In conjunction with group Augmentation
     coordinators, group commanders will ensure that personnel designated to provide
     augmentation are prepared to perform those duties for a minimum of 30 days at a time,
     once activated.
     3.1.3. The use of augmentees must be authorized by the 325 FW/CV.
     3.1.4. In coordination with group and squadron commanders, Augmentation Program
     coordinators will be responsible for designating individual augmentees and maintaining
     an augmentee roster with all pertinent personnel information including name, rank, office
     symbol, and home, work and cell phone numbers. The group POC will provide a copy of
     their rosters on an appointment letter to the wing augmentation program coordinator and
     appropriate users. The roster will be updated as information changes to ensure it remains
     current, i.e., new members assigned or deleted.
  3.2. Augmentation Team Recall Procedures.
     3.2.1. Augmentation users contact their respective group CC to request activation of
     augmentees based on installation-level exercises, contingencies, wartime, or emergency
     situation. Augmentees may also be activated by the Commander’s Senior Staff (inside
     the Installation Control Center (ICC)) if situations deem necessary.
     3.2.2. Group CCs validate and send activation requests to the 325 FW/CV or Emergency
     Operations Center (EOC) Director (MSG/CC) if the FW/CV is not available.
     3.2.3. 325 FW/CV or MSG/CC (if FW/CV is not available), validates need for activation
     of augmentees and initiates activation of augmentee teams through the wing
     augmentation program coordinator.
     3.2.4. The wing augmentation program coordinator will execute recall procedures.
     Notification will be made via Crisis Action Team Directive or a verbal order if necessary
     to expedite activation. If a verbal order is made, the wing augmentation program
     coordinator will ensure the request is followed up by an official e-mail message.
     3.2.5. The wing augmentation program coordinator will           contact group POCs with
     request for activated augmentees via e-mail or verbal order.   If a verbal order is initiated,
     the wing augmentation program coordinator will follow up       at earliest possible moment
     with an official e-mail message confirming the number of       personnel required and any
     other pertinent information.
4. MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL FLIGHT AND WING AUGMENTATION
PROGRAM COORDINATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
  4.1. Schedule meetings of the ARB, as directed by the 325 FW/CV, and notify the members
  outlined in para 2.1. and 2.2.
  4.2. Hold quarterly Augmentation working group meetings, with group monitors, to review
  procedural guidance and review program status. The wing augmentation program
  coordinator will chair the meetings. The wing augmentation program coordinator will also
  attend the quarterly Emergency Management Working Group (EMWG) meetings and
  provide information, as needed, concerning the status and/or issues of the Augmentation
  program.
 4                                                       TYNDALLAFBI10-204 27 JUNE 2012


     4.3. Meet with the ARB Chairman to discuss proposed agenda prior to the annual
     Augmentation Program Review Board. The wing augmentation program coordinator (or
     alternate) will facilitate the ARB, maintain board minutes, and ensure minutes are distributed
     to all ARB members.
     4.4. Task groups to provide augmentees for augmentation duty as approved by the ARB.
     Following 325 FW/CV approval of taskings for augmentees, the wing augmentation program
     coordinator will notify the group coordinators of their appropriate taskings.
     4.5. Maintain a current list of all personnel assigned as augmentees. The wing
     augmentation program coordinator will facilitate training and personnel issues between the
     groups and users of the augmentees to prevent shortfalls.
5. MANPOWER AND ORGANIZATION SECTION (FSMM) RESPONSIBILITIES.
     5.1. FSMM personnel will provide unit population of technical sergeants and below,
     excluding exemptions, to the ARB and assist them in determining fair share tasking. FSMM
     will also perform manpower reviews of augmented units as directed by the 325 FW/CV.
     Exemptions from taskings will be approved by the ARB during their annual meeting.
     Current exemptions are outlined in Table 5.1.

Table 5.1. Authorized Exemptions.
First Responders                  Emergency Responders                            Others
Security Forces 1      Readiness & Emergency     Explosive                   Air Traffic
                       Management (EM)           Ordnance                    Controllers
                                                 Disposal (EOD)
Fire &                 Medical Treatment         Mortuary Affairs        Force Support
Emergency              Providers                 Personnel               Sq Search &
Services1                                                                Recovery
                                                                         Personnel
Key Emergency          Public Health Officers           Bioenvironmental Public Affairs
Medical                                                 Engineering
Technicians1
                       Aircrew Flight Equipment         Specialized Team     Command Post
                       Personnel                        Members2
                                                                             Chaplain
                                                                             Assistants
                                                                             Safety


Note 1: All First Responders are Emergency Responders, but not all Emergency
Responders are First Responders.
Note 2: Personnel already identified on a specialized team cannot augment another
team or be assigned additional duties that will conflict with their emergency duties.
     5.2. Any new augmentation taskings proposed through the Augmentation working group, as
     outlined in para 2.2., must be coordinated by FSMM prior to proposal to the ARB.
TYNDALLAFBI10-204 27 JUNE 2012                                                                5


  5.3. The ARB will approve the distribution of all augmentation taskings. Any changes to
  taskings will be published in the meeting minutes generated from the ARB and disseminated
  to all group POCs.
6. GROUP/UNIT     COMMANDERS                   AND        STAFF        AGENCY           CHIEF
RESPONSIBILITIES.
  6.1. Group/unit commanders are responsible for managing all aspects of their units’
  Augmentation programs to include assigning technical sergeants and below as augmentees to
  meet wing mission requirements, ensuring personnel are properly trained to perform
  augmentation duties, tracking number of days personnel perform augmentee duties, and
  appointing group, unit, and/or wing staff agency coordinators.
7. GROUP/UNIT            AUGMENTATION                  PROGRAM              COORDINATOR
RESPONSIBILITIES.
  7.1. Group/unit coordinators provide augmentation as tasked by the ARB. Tasked
  augmentees will remain augmentees for at least 1 year, unless augmentees retire, separate,
  PCS, deploy, or become medically disqualified. Group/unit coordinators are responsible for
  ensuring replacements are trained prior to the loss of primary augmentees.
     7.1.1. Readiness Support Team (RST) members must, upon assignment, have at least 18-
     months retainability. Unit commanders must notify the wing augmentation program
     coordinator when approving the release of a trained team member for reasons other than
     PCS, retirement, discharge, or medical disqualification.
  7.2. Owning units will maintain a database of their augmentees to include training dates and
  weapon qualifications IAW AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program para 5.5. Unit
  coordinators will corroborate their database with the user’s database on a quarterly basis and
  work directly with the user to resolve any discrepancies.
  7.3. Group and unit Augmentation Program coordinators may rotate members performing
  augmentee duties as they see fit to meet mission requirements provided they ensure the
  moves are properly coordinated and members served a minimum of 30 days (except in
  emergency situations). Coordinators rotating augmentees must contact user POC with a ―by-
  name‖ rotation request to ensure the replacement augmentee is qualified PRIOR to any
  rotation.
  7.4. When tasked, group coordinators must notify the wing augmentation program
  coordinator with the names of the personnel planned to fill the tasking prior to augmentee
  assembly meetings. If groups are unable to meet a tasking, group commanders must notify
  the 325 FW/CV. If a change is approved by the 325 FW/CV, groups will then contact the
  wing augmentation program coordinator, who will in turn, notify the user.
  7.5. Units must replace augmentees on their rosters 30 days prior to PCS, separation (if
  practicable), retirement, medical disqualification, or any other reason that affects their
  availability. Ensure the group coordinator, wing coordinator, and user are notified. When
  augmentees are placed on profile or quarters for less than 72 hours, the user agency will
  absorb the shortage internally and the alternate augmentee will be activated. When an
  augmentee’s profile or quarters exceeds 72 hours, the owning unit will replace the
  augmentee.
6                                                      TYNDALLAFBI10-204 27 JUNE 2012


       7.5.1. Replacement augmentees must be fully trained before the release of the incumbent
       member. When primary augmentees are recalled and they cannot respond due to
       placement on profile or quarters, the alternate member must report upon notification.
    7.6. Group and unit augmentation coordinators will ensure augmentees outprocess user
    agencies and return issued items and equipment to include badges upon deactivation or prior
    to PCS.
    7.7. Group and unit coordinators will ensure individuals designated as augmentees meet rank
    requirement and all prerequisites outlined in AF instructions. Security Forces (SF)
    augmentees must meet suitability prerequisites as identified in paragraph 8, possess a flight
    line driver’s license, and have a secret or higher security clearance. RST members must meet
    suitability prerequisites identified in paragraph 9 and IAW AFI 48-123, Medical
    Examinations and Standards.
8. SECURITY FORCES USER REPONSIBILITIES.
    8.1. The 325 SFS/CC will route all requests for additional SF augmentation to the 325
    FW/CV for approval. Once approved, the 325 SFS/CC will provide the wing augmentation
    program coordinator a copy of the approved request.
    8.2. The 325 SFS/CC will appoint a 325 SFS augmentee training coordinator and alternate to
    manage all aspects of SF augmentee training.
    8.3. The 325 SFS will maintain a central database listing each SF augmentee in the wing and
    their training status. The SFS POC will corroborate their database with each unit augmentee
    coordinator on a quarterly basis to resolve any discrepancies.
       8.3.1. Maintain any necessary augmentee gear for SF augmentees.
       8.3.2. The following is a list of training requirements managed by the 325 SFS:
           8.3.2.1. SFS augmentees will attend a 2-day initial training session and be trained
           IAW AFI 36-2225, Security Forces Training and Standardization Evaluation
           Programs. Units are responsible for scheduling and monitoring their augmentee’s
           weapons qualifications. While assigned as SFS augmentees, member will be re-
           categorized into Arming Group A IAW AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program.
           8.3.2.2. Previously trained augmentees will attend a 1-day refresher training session.
           Units are responsible for ensuring augmentees maintain their qualifications
    8.4. Augmentees should be free from physical or mental profiles that would limit their
    abilities to perform duties as a Security Forces augmentee.
    8.5. The 325 SFS augmentee training goal will be to train and maintain two times the
    number of augmentees authorized at all times. This requirement may be increased by the 325
    FW/CV based on real-world requirements.
9. CIVIL ENGINEERING               READINESS         SUPPORT        TEAM        (RST)     USER
RESPONSIBILITIES.
    9.1. The Readiness and Emergency Management Flight Chief and/or Superintendent will
    ensure RST members are identified, organized, trained and equipped IAW this instruction,
TYNDALLAFBI10-204 27 JUNE 2012                                                                7


  AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations,
  and all applicable supplements.
  9.2. RST members must not be assigned to other additional duties that conflict with RST
  duties. Commanders and supervisors must understand that when the RST is recalled, RST
  becomes an RST member’s primary duty. RST members will have:
     9.2.1. Normal color vision.
     9.2.2. Minimum physical profile of 2 under "P", "U", "L", "H", and "E"; 1 under "S".
     9.2.3. A valid driver license.
     9.2.4. Have at least a SECRET security clearance. Interim clearances authorized by the
     member’s commander are acceptable.
     9.2.5. Must be able to lift, at a minimum, 50 pounds
  9.3. Team members are responsible for:
     9.3.1. Working in the CBRN Control Center.
     9.3.2. Maintaining a log of events and coordinate force survivability/mission
     continuation activities with unit/group control centers, Bay County Emergency
     Operations Center, and HQ AETC.
     9.3.3. Assisting with command and control of Emergency Operations Center during
     contingency/ emergency response operations and exercise scenarios.
     9.3.4. Setting up the Mobile Communications Center at the Incident Command Post
     (ICP) in support of the Incident Commander (IC)
     9.3.5. Performing duties as Radiological Contamination Control Station attendant.
  9.4. IAW AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and
  Operations, all RST augmentees will receive initial training within 60 days of being assigned.
  Refresher training will be conducted every 20 months.
8                                                      TYNDALLAFBI10-204 27 JUNE 2012



10. AUGMENTEE RESPONSIBILITIES.
    10.1. During a general 325 FW augmentee recall (ref. para 3.2.), augmentees will report to
    their respective units. They will sign in for accountability and then immediately be released
    to report to their augmentation duty sections. The augmentees will be accounted for by their
    owning units, not their augmented units, for strength accounting and reporting. All other
    recalls will be accomplished IAW Tyndall AFBI 10-201 para 5.
    10.2. Augmentees will report any changes in physical profile as well as projected leaves,
    TDYs, and deployments to their unit augmentation coordinators as soon as possible. This
    information will be immediately relayed to the Wing augmentation coordinator and all
    applicable agencies.
    10.3. Augmentees are required to identify themselves to CATM instructors as arming group
    A when attending weapons qualifications.




                                            JOHN K. McMULLEN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                            Commander, 325th Fighter Wing
TYNDALLAFBI10-204 27 JUNE 2012                                                     9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 10-2, Readiness
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations
AFI 10-207, Command Posts
AFI 11-301, Aircrew Flight Equipment (AFE) Program Volume 1
AFI 13-204, Functional Management of Airfield Ops Volume 3
AFI 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Responsibilities & Management
AFI 36-2225, Security Forces Training and Standardization Evaluation Programs
AFI 36-2226, Combat Arms Program
AFI 36-2101, Classifying Military Personnel
AFI 36-2606, Reenlistment in the United States Air Force
AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards
AFI 52-101, Planning & Organizing
AFI 91-202, Mishap Prevention Program
AFPAM 10-243, Augmentation Duty

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
ARB—Augmentation Review Board
CATM—Combat Arms Training and Maintenance
CBRN—Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear
DoD—Department of Defense
EMWG—Emergency Management Working Group
HQ AFPC—Headquarters Air Force Personnel Center
HQ USAF—Headquarters United States Air Force
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System
MO—Manpower Office
MPS—Military Personnel Section
OI—Operating Instruction
 10                                    TYNDALLAFBI10-204 27 JUNE 2012


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RST—Readiness Support Team
