BY ORDER OF THE                                                  TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
325TH FIGHTER WING COMMANDER                                          INSTRUCTION 48-103
(AETC)
                                                                          18 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                          FOOD SAFETY AND INSPECTION


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 325 AMDS/SGPM                                     Certified by: 325 AMDS/CC (Lt Col Erik
                                                                                    K. Koda)
Supersedes:    TYNDALLAFBI48-103, 17                                                 Pages: 4
               Sep 2003


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program. It establishes policies
and procedures to ensure safety and security of subsistence purchased for resale or for any
organization on Tyndall AFB preparing and serving foods for consumption by military personnel
and base populace. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. This publication may be supplemented at any level, but all direct supplements must be
routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. Ensure
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the       Air       Force       Records         Disposition         Schedule        (RDS)       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The explanation of terms and Commanders responsibilities.
1. PURPOSE. To protect the health of the military community through uniform food safety and
inspection procedures designed to prevent food-borne illness outbreaks and to protect the
financial interests of the government.
2. RESPONSIBILITIES. Commanders and other responsible personnel of organizations
which buy subsistence for resale or consumption by military personnel or any consumers on
Tyndall AFB must ensure compliance with this instruction and the above references. The
 2                                                  TYNDALLAFBI48-103 18 November 2011


policies in this instruction apply to all activities where potentially hazardous food is offered for
sale on the installation to the public. A unit specific function (for example: cookout, social
function, promotion party, etc.) where food is not sold to the general public does not fall under
the purview of this instruction. All food sold at a Tyndall food facility, through a temporary
food establishment, or where food is advertised for sale to the base populace fall under the
purview of this instruction.
     2.1. Food Facility Supervisors/Managers.
        2.1.1. Ensure all foods are procured from approved sources in collaboration with the
        Procurement/Contracting office and the Public Health Flight (PH).
        2.1.2. Inspect potentially hazardous food upon receipt for wholesomeness, age at time of
        delivery, packaging integrity, source approval, signs of sabotage or adulteration, security
        of food items, and sanitary condition of delivery vehicles.
        2.1.3. Integrate food safety and security procedures into all aspects of food service
        operations IAW the FDA Food Code (AF/Army version) current edition and all pertinent
        DoD and AF instructions.
        2.1.4. Contact PH upon receipt of Operational Rations (M-R-E, UGR, T-Rations, Kocher
        Rations, etc) so that proper documentation and procedures can be followed.
        2.1.5. Attend annual supervisors’ food handler’s training and provide documented initial
        and annual food handlers training to all new food employees or personnel.
     2.2. Public Health Flight (PH) (325 AMDS/SGPM).
        2.2.1. The PH Flight Commander is responsible for the administrative management of all
        Food Safety Programs under the authority of the Commander, 325th Medical Group.
        2.2.2. PH will train each facility manager/supervisor and receiving officer on how to
        inspect all subsistence IAW current regulations, standards, and contracts. Training is
        given as part of the annual supervisors’ food handler’s training or upon request for new
        food facility supervisors.
        2.2.3. PH will assist food facilities in ensuring foods are coming from approved sources
        and verifying that deliveries originated from those sources if needed.
3. PROCEDURES FOR LOCAL APPROVAL OF ESTABLISHMENTS.
     3.1. A base food facility may request a local establishment be added as an approved source.
     The requesting facility must submit a written request to the 325 FW/CC. PH will evaluate
     the establishment and determine if it can be approved for local use upon request by the 325
     FW/CC.
     3.2. Food vendors desiring to bid on armed forces subsistence contracts must send a written
     request (on company stationery) for an initial sanitary inspection of their facility to the
     applicable purchasing officer. The purchasing officer must send a request for an initial
     inspection to the Regional Veterinary Command at Ft. Rucker, AL, for action and inspection
     coordination by the TAFB Veterinary Office and PH.
TYNDALLAFBI48-103 18 November 2011                                                                3


4. INSPECTION OF SUBSISTENCE. Subsistence will be inspected at the time of delivery
for wholesomeness, quality, and contract compliance when it is required IAW current
regulations.
   4.1. The receiving officer will inspect the shipment of subsistence upon arrival at the facility.
   4.2. If a nonconformance is identified in a shipment of subsistence by the receiving officer,
   the receiving officer will reject the shipment and if applicable coordinate with PH for the
   proper disposition of the item(s).
   4.3. PH will give recommendations and facility supervisors will dispose of or use the
   products appropriately.
   4.4. Additional Responsibilities: Vendors and carriers delivering perishable food items to
   the base will ensure that non-food items (fuels, chemicals, etc.) are not transported in the
   same compartment of the vehicle unless precautions to prevent contamination of foods are
   taken. Carriers are responsible for the cleanliness of vehicles and food containers.
5. STORAGE AND HANDLING. All subsistence received, stored, or sold will be handled in
a secure and sanitary manner. It will be protected from weather, sun, heat, dust, insects, rodents,
and other damaging or contaminating agents.
6. FOOD DONATION. Any food products donated to the base or by the base that is to be sold
to the public will also be inspected by PH prior to selling, distributing, or transporting the food
product. Base project officers appointed to oversee food donations will ensure coordination with
PH during planning for food procurement, preparation, food safety and inspection procedures.
This coordination with PH must occur at least 30 days prior to the planned event. If this does not
occur or PH does not inspect the food, the project officer will not be authorized to offer food for
sale to the public.
7. SPECIAL EVENTS. Organizational, Private Associations, or Temporary Food Facilities
will ensure compliance with appropriate base protocol procedures and all pertinent DoD and AF
instructions.
   7.1. Base project officers appointed to oversee special events to include any individual,
   organization, or vendor (for example: Oktober Fest, Air Show, etc.) will ensure coordination
   with PH during planning for approval and verification of food procurement, preparation, food
   safety, and inspection procedures. This coordination with PH must occur at least 30 days
   prior to the planned event. If this does not occur or PH does not inspect the food, the project
   officer may not be authorized to offer food for sale to the base populace.
8. TYNDALL AFB FOOD FACILITIES. Prior to operating any permanent food facility on
Tyndall AFB, the requesting unit (for example: AAFES, DeCA, SVS) must obtain clearance
from Fire, Safety, and PH. Any significant changes to the infrastructure of an existing facility
must also be routed through Fire, Safety, and PH to ensure all public safety and food safety
concerns are addressed prior to start of operations.




                                             PAUL M. SKALA, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 325th Medical Group
 4                                                TYNDALLAFBI48-103 18 November 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-246, Food and Water Protection Program, 4 Dec 2004
AFI 48-116, Food Safety Program, 19 Mar 2010
MIL-STD-3006A, DoD STD Practice Sanitation Requirements for Food Establishments, 20 Aug
2000
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.

Terms
Subsistence—For use in this instruction, the term "subsistence" is meant to be all food products
intended for human consumption
Approved Source—An establishment which meets the requirements outlined in AFI 48-116 to
sell food products to the government
Locally Listed Approved Source—A local establishment approved by the installation
commander to sell and/or deliver foods only to TAFB food activities
