BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE                                                INSTRUCTION 31-102

                                                                                1 AUGUST 2011

                                                                                         Security

                                                   DISPOSISTION OF LOST, ABANDONED,
                                                            OR UNCLAIMED PROPERTY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on the publication.

OPR: 325 SFS/S-2I                                                      Certified by: 325 SFS/CC
                                                                                    (Boyd, Maj.)
Supersedes:    TAFBI 31-102/ 1 AUG 2005                                                  Pages: 9


This instruction implements AFPD 31-1, Physical Security. It defines local policies and
establishes general procedures for the disposition of lost, abandoned, or unclaimed property on
Tyndall Air Force Base, Florida. Lost, abandoned, or unclaimed property is defined as any
privately owned personal property, including vehicles which have come into the custody or
control of a military department and are unclaimed by the owner (Ref: DoD 4160.21M,
Department of Defense Materiel Management Regulation). This instruction requires the Air
Force to collect or maintain personal information in a PA system of records that is retrieved by
personal identifier. Follow AFI33-332, Privacy Act Program, for further privacy act guidance
and sample privacy act statements. Privacy Act System Notices are available online at:
http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level,
but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to
certification and approval. It applies to individuals at all levels who prepare, manage, review,
certify, approve, disseminate and/or use official Air Force publications and forms, including Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted
otherwise. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.
 2                                                    TYNDALLAFBI31-102 1 AUGUST 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

S-2 was changed to S-2I and towing procedures were modified.
1. RESPONSIBILITIES. The installation commander shall appoint a board of one or more
commissioned, or noncommissioned officers, or civilians, to serve on a continuing basis, as the
Base Property Disposal Board (PDB). This designation will be made in writing with copies to
the board member(s) and Security Forces Investigations section (S-2I). Defense Property
Disposal Office personnel and Security Forces personnel will not serve as board members.
2. PROCEDURES:
     2.1. Security Forces will:
        2.1.1. Establish accountability and provide safekeeping for lost, abandoned, or
        unclaimed property.
        2.1.2. Record the acquisition of property in the Security Forces blotter including the
        location of temporary storage.
        2.1.3. Notify the PDB of the acquisition of the property, and assist as necessary to locate
        the property owner.
        2.1.4. Store lost, abandoned, or unclaimed property which is under jurisdiction of the
        PDB.
     2.2. The PDB will:
        2.2.1. Initiate procedures outlined in DoD 4160.21 manual upon request for disposal of
        property by Security Forces.
        2.2.2. Examine the property and prepare a written and dated inventory, including fair
        market value (determined by the PDB). The board will conduct diligent inquiries, with
        assistance from Security Forces if required, to locate owners, heirs, legal representatives,
        or lien holders who would have legal claim to the property.
        2.2.3. If the property is not claimed, or the owner, his/her heirs, next of kin, or legal
        representative is not found, the property will be held for a minimum of 45 days. Property
        will be advertised in the Base Bulletin, Base Cable TV Channel, and the Gulf Defender a
        minimum of two times in a 45-day period.
3. Standards for Towing and Impoundment:
     3.1. Security Forces personnel will not tow or impound a POV unless one or more of the
     following conditions exist:
        3.1.1. The vehicle is illegally parked.
            3.1.1.1. On a street, or is double-parked, and interferes with the orderly flow of
            traffic.
            3.1.1.2. On a sidewalk, within an intersection, on a crosswalk, in a fire lane, or is
            blocking a driveway, and the vehicle interferes with operations or creates a safety
            hazard to other roadway users or the general public.
            3.1.1.3. Blocking an emergency exit door of any public building.
TYNDALLAFBI31-102 1 AUGUST 2011                                                                3


          3.1.1.4. In or adjacent to a restricted, controlled, or off-limits area.
          3.1.1.5. In a “tow-away” zone, marked with signs.
          3.1.1.6. Poses a significant force protection concern.
      3.1.2. The vehicle interferes with or is involved in one of the following:
          3.1.2.1. Street cleaning after attempts to contact the owner fails.        Emergency
          operations during natural disasters, fire, or other emergencies.
          3.1.2.2. The vehicle was used in a crime or contains evidence of criminal activity.
          The owner or person in charge of the vehicle is apprehended, and therefore unable (or
          unwilling) to arrange removal of the vehicle.
          3.1.2.3. The vehicle is mechanically defective, and is a menace to others using the
          public roadways.
          3.1.2.4. The vehicle is disabled by a traffic accident, and the operator is unavailable
          or physically incapable of having the vehicle towed to a place of safety for storage
          and safekeeping.
              3.1.2.4.1. If the vehicle operator has no preference on a specific towing agency,
              the on-duty desk sergeant will call the next towing agency on the rotation log.
              The rotation log is maintained on the Security Forces Control Center (SFCC).
      3.1.3. Use criterion in accordance with para 8., when security forces personnel
      reasonably believe the vehicle is abandoned.
      3.1.4. Civilian police agencies making an arrest on Hwy 98 are responsible for the
      disposition of a subject’s vehicle.
   3.2. Prior to having a POV towed or impounded, security forces personnel will, when
   possible, attempt to locate the registered owner of the vehicle and have it removed. If
   permissible, security forces personnel will allow another person to drive or tow the POV,
   with permission from the registered owner, operator, or person empowered to control the
   vehicle. However, in no instance will Security Forces (or towing contractor) be responsible
   for safeguarding the vehicle.
      3.2.1. A, Security Forces Blotter entry, DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket,
      DD Form 2505, Vehicle Tow Authorization, and DD Form 2506, Vehicle Impoundment
      Report must be accomplished.
      3.2.2. S-2I will authorize the towing of vehicles seized for evidentiary purposes. The on-
      duty flight chief may authorize towing, and impoundment of all other vehicles.
4. Procedures For Towing:
   4.1. The following personnel are authorized to sign the DD Form 2505 to have POVs towed
   and removed from Tyndall AFB:
      Chief, Security Forces
      Security Forces Manager
      Security Forces Operations Officer
      Security Forces Operations Superintendent
4                                                     TYNDALLAFBI31-102 1 AUGUST 2011


       Security Forces NCOIC Operations
       Security Forces Investigator
       On-Duty Flight Chief
    4.2. When a patrol identifies an illegally parked POV that requires towing and temporary
    impoundment, contact the on-duty flight chief.
       4.2.1. The flight chief will ensure all reasonable attempts are made to locate the
       registered owner or operator to have it moved, prior to authorizing the towing and
       impoundment. Once the flight chief has determined the POV requires towing, the desk
       sergeant will contact a local wrecker service using the rotation log and request tow
       service.
       4.2.2. The flight chief will ensure a DD Form 2506 is accomplished.
           4.2.3.1. If available, use keys to open a locked trunk or glove compartment to
           conduct an inventory. If keys are not available, instructions will be obtained from
           Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) to determine the method to use for opening the locked
           trunk or glove compartment. Take special care not to damage any property while
           attempting to gain access to locked containers or compartments.
           4.2.3.2. If access is not permitted, account for items in plain view through the
           windows, and annotate this information on the DD Form 2506.
    4.3. If illegal narcotics are observed in plain view, the POV will be secured as a crime scene.
    S-2I and AFOSI will be contacted to assume control of the POV.
       4.3.1. If illegal narcotics are discovered during the inventory immediately seize the items
       via AF Form 52, Evidence Tag, and stop the inventory. The POV will be secured as a
       crime scene. S-2I and AFOSI will be contacted to assume control of the POV.
       4.3.2. If the POV is unlocked, inventory the entire contents. Seize any weapons, money,
       high value items (over $300), military identification cards, government property, or
       contraband found within the POV.
       4.3.3. Security Forces personnel will not open locked/closed containers such as suitcases,
       unless necessary to identify the owner or if the contents might present a danger to the
       public. List the container on the DD Form 2506 and seal it with security tape provided
       by S-2I.
       4.3.4. Once recorded, all personal property will be placed inside the trunk of the POV, if
       accessible. If the trunk is not accessible the items will be placed inside the POV and the
       POV will be reasonably secured.
       4.3.5. It is not necessary to inventory the entire contents of moving vans and semi-
       trailers. Only the cab compartment will be inventoried, if unlocked. In these instances,
       close all door(s) to the trailer and place a numbered seal provided by the armory on the
       locking mechanism. Record the seal number on the DD Form 2506 and in the blotter
       entry.
       4.3.6. At no time will any fixed object be removed from within a POV, i.e., car stereos,
       speakers, amplifiers, etc.
TYNDALLAFBI31-102 1 AUGUST 2011                                                                  5


   4.4. The flight chief will complete a DD Form 2505 prior to towing the POV. The flight
   chief will not release the vehicle to a wrecker service until all required actions and paperwork
   are completed. The flight chief will provide the wrecker service a copy of the DD Form
   2505 and DD Form 2506. Once the vehicle is removed from the installation the flight chief
   will ensure a detailed blotter entry is accomplished to include the following (but not limited
   to):
      4.4.1. The year, make, model, color, vehicle identification number (VIN), and license tag
      number of the vehicle. Special care will be taken to insure the VIN is copied correctly.
      4.4.2. The complete name and address of the registered owner obtained from the NCIC
      or a current valid state vehicle registration.
      4.4.3. Steps taken to contact the registered owner to have the vehicle moved.
      4.4.4. Date and time the vehicle was towed, the location where it was towed, and the
      name of the wrecker service used.
      4.4.5. Specific facts detailing why the vehicle required towing, and removal from
      Tyndall AFB.
5. Towing and Impounding Vehicles When Driver is Apprehended or Incapacitated:
   5.1. When the operator of a motor vehicle is apprehended for a criminal offense, such as
   drunken driving or reckless driving, security forces personnel will request permission from
   the operator to move the vehicle out of the roadway into a nearby parking area. The operator
   may allow another available person to move the vehicle.
      5.1.1. If the operator gives permission to a security forces member to move the vehicle,
      use all care while moving the vehicle. If the member observes contraband within plain
      view, it will be seized. The vehicle will then be processed and secured in accordance
      with para 7.
      5.1.2. If the operator refuses to allow a security forces member or someone else to move
      the vehicle, it will be towed and impounded. A complete inventory of the vehicle will be
      conducted to protect Air Force personnel from claims of stolen, lost, or vandalized
      property, as well as protecting personnel from possible injuries from dangerous items.
      The keys will be returned to the operator after they have been released to their first
      sergeant, commander, or civilian authority.
      5.1.3. Seize any weapons, money, high value items (over $300), military identification
      cards, government property, or contraband found within the vehicle.
      5.1.4. The flight chief will provide the wrecker service and the vehicle operator a copy of
      the DD Form 2505 and DD Form 2506. The original DD Form 2505 and DD Form 2506
      will be forwarded with the AF Form 3545, Incident Report, detailing why the vehicle
      required towing and removal from Tyndall AFB.
   5.2. If the operator of a vehicle is incapacitated, the vehicle will be towed and impounded.
   A complete inventory of the vehicle will be conducted in accordance with para 4.
      5.2.1. The keys should be returned to the operator, given to his/her first sergeant or
      commander, or left with someone the operator identifies. In the event the driver is
      incapacitated the keys will remain with the vehicle. Once the vehicle is removed from
 6                                                      TYNDALLAFBI31-102 1 AUGUST 2011


        the installation, the flight chief will ensure an AF Form 3545, Incident Report, is
        accomplished detailing why the vehicle required towing and removal from Tyndall AFB.
        5.2.2. Impounded vehicles can be released to the registered/legal owner, lien holder, or
        holder of a Power of Attorney.
6. Stolen Vehicles or Vehicles Involved in Criminal Activity:
     6.1. If a vehicle is identified as stolen or involved in criminal activity, S-2I will immediately
     be contacted. S-2I will respond to the scene, and assume responsibility for the vehicle. If the
     vehicle was involved in a major crime, S-2I will contact AFOSI, who will respond to the
     scene and assume responsibility for the vehicle. POVs seized for evidentiary purposes will
     be towed and maintained in the Security Forces impound lot.
     6.2. Recovered stolen POVs will be released to the registered owner, unless held for
     evidentiary purposes, or the law enforcement agency reporting the vehicle stolen, as
     appropriate after coordinating with S-2I.
7. Search Incident to Impoundment Based on Criminal Activity:
     7.1. Search of a POV, in conjunction with impoundment based on criminal activity, will
     likely occur in one of the following general situations:
        7.1.1. The owner or operator is not present. This situation could arise during traffic and
        crime-related impoundment and abandoned vehicle seizures. Vehicles will not be
        searched unless evidence or contraband is in plain view, or is readily discernible on the
        outside as evidence of criminal activity. Proper search authority will be obtained before
        searching.
            7.1.1.1. The owner or operator is present. This situation can occur during a traffic or
            criminal incident, or if the operator is apprehended for a crime or serious traffic
            violation, and sufficient probable cause exists to seize the vehicle. In some cases the
            operator is present, but is unwilling to allow security forces personnel to search the
            vehicle or is incapacitated from injuries.
     7.2. If the operator is unwilling to allow security forces personnel to search the vehicle or is
     incapacitated, proper search authority will be obtained before searching.
     7.3. Security Forces personnel may search vehicles without search authority when there is
     reasonable danger to himself/herself or the public, there is a risk of loss or destruction of
     evidence, or the search is reasonable under rules governing search incident to apprehension.
     7.4. POVs impounded in the Security Forces impound lot by S-2I or AFOSI will be
     completely inventoried. The inventory will be conducted to protect Air Force personnel from
     claims of stolen, lost or vandalized property, as well as protecting personnel from possible
     injuries from dangerous items.
     7.5. A security forces member will drive, or accompany the vehicle if towed, to the Security
     Forces impound lot and secure the vehicle.
     7.6. S-2I will complete a DD Form 2505, DD Form 2506, and an AF Form 52 listing the
     description of the vehicle to include, but not limited to:
TYNDALLAFBI31-102 1 AUGUST 2011                                                                    7


      7.6.1. The year, make, model, color, vehicle identification number (VIN), and license tag
      number of the vehicle. Special care will be taken to insure the VIN is copied correctly.
   7.7. Complete an additional AF Form 52 to record all property within the vehicle. This
   property will be secured in the S-2I evidence room. Keys to the vehicle will be listed on the
   evidence tag for the vehicle, and secured in the S-2I evidence room.
   7.8. S-2I will complete an AF Form 3545 or Security Forces Report of Investigation (ROI),
   detailing the case and reason for impoundment/seizure. S-2I will provide the on-duty desk
   sergeant details to accomplish a blotter entry.
8. Abandoned Vehicles:
   8.1. Security Forces personnel performing patrol duties will identify possible abandoned
   vehicles on base. The following situations may indicate a vehicle is abandoned:
      8.1.1. Unattended vehicles parked at the same location for more than five days.
      8.1.2. Unattended vehicles parked illegally for more than five days.
      8.1.3. Unattended vehicles with expired base or state registration.
      8.1.4. Unattended vehicles in a state of disrepair or missing components such as engines,
      wheels, major body parts, windshields, windows, flat tires, and so forth.
      8.1.5. Unattended vehicles parked in a manner that constitutes a safety hazard.
   8.2. The on-duty desk sergeant or patrolman will make all reasonable attempts to identify,
   and notify the owner of the vehicle violation. Examples include checking the base alpha
   roster, housing roster, and dormitory rosters.
      8.2.1. If the owner of the vehicle cannot be identified or located, patrols will affix the
      pink copy of a            DD Form 1408 to the vehicles windshield. A blotter entry will
      be accomplished stating the circumstances in which the notice was left, and actions taken
      to locate the owner.
      8.2.2. If 72 hrs have passed without the vehicle being moved, S-2I will place a DD Form
      2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice on the vehicle. S-2I will then contact the owner’s
      military organization to determine if he/she is TDY (Temporary Duty), has PCS’d
      (Permanent Change of Station), or been discharged.
      8.2.3. If the owner is TDY, the unit first sergeant or supervisor is contacted, and
      instructed to make arrangements with the owner to have the vehicle removed within a
      prescribed timeline.
      8.2.4. If the owner has PCS’d, been discharged, or contact cannot be made, S-2I will
      send a certified letter to the last known registered owner informing them, upon receipt of
      the certified letter, they have 72 hrs to remove the vehicle from Tyndall AFB.
      8.2.5. If contact is still not made upon receipt of the certified letter, or the vehicle is not
      removed from the installation within 72 hrs, S-2I will have the vehicle towed.
      8.2.6. If a vehicle is determined to be abandoned, a wrecker will be called from the
      rotation log.
 8                                                     TYNDALLAFBI31-102 1 AUGUST 2011


            8.2.6.1. The rotation log is comprised of several vehicle towing services. Prior to
            being added to the rotation log, an interested wrecker company must have a current
            “Towing Procedures and No Cost Towing Agreement” letter on file with S-2I. All
            towing services will be given equal opportunity to remove abandoned vehicles from
            Tyndall AFB.
9. Towing Guidelines and Wrecker Service Responsibilities:
     9.1. A DD Form 2505 will be completed, and a copy provided to the wrecker service.
     9.2. S-2I will escort the wrecker to the abandoned vehicle’s location.
     9.3. A DD Form 2506 and a full joint inventory of all personal property within the vehicle
     will be accomplished by S-2I and the wrecker service prior to removing the vehicle from the
     base. A copy of the DD Fm 2506 will be given to the wrecker service.
     9.4. Indicate any noted missing equipment and/or damage to the vehicle.
     9.5. Accomplish a blotter entry.
     9.6. Photograph the vehicle for record, and file the photo(s) prints in the investigator’s notes
     with the case file.
     9.7. Any valuables inside the vehicle must be identified on the impoundment report.
     Valuables which are not mounted to the vehicle or cannot be secured in the vehicle will be
     stored in the S-2I evidence room, and accounted for on an AF Form 52.
     9.8. If the owner(s) of such property cannot be identified, the property will be disposed of in
     the required time frame period, as specified in DoD 4160.21M.
     9.9. Once the vehicle has been released to the owner, lien holder, or civilian towing agency,
     the completed vehicle file will be maintained for a period of five years. The reason for the
     five-year staging period is to protect the government from false claims, as the owner has a
     right to file a claim up to five years after the tow date for any damage or missing property.
     S-2I is the POC for maintaining the file.
     9.10. Wrecker service requirements: all tow truck operators must be certified and possess the
     proper driver’s license and credentials. Tow truck operators are required to know and
     comply with the Florida Uniform Traffic Control Law, Florida Statute, Chapter 316. All
     wrecker services must have ready access to a tow truck, and be available for service 24 hours
     a day. All towed vehicles must be stored in a secure area.
        9.10.1. When a vehicle is removed from Tyndall AFB property, there will be no further
        325th Security Forces Squadron involvement.
        9.10.2. The wrecker service will not hold the United States Air Force, Tyndall AFB, or
        the                         325th Security Forces Squadron responsible for any charges,
        costs, or claims brought regarding the towing of any vehicle.
        9.10.3. The vehicle owner will pay any cost derived from towing.
        9.10.4. In accordance with Florida law, the wrecker service assumes all responsibility for
        the abandoned vehicle, and is required to contact the vehicle owner, store the vehicle in a
        secure location, and dispose of the vehicle through approved means.
TYNDALLAFBI31-102 1 AUGUST 2011                                                            9


10. Towing/Impoundment for Force Protection Measures:
   10.1. Vehicles can be immediately towed/impounded if determined to be a force protection
   threat or for force protection reasons.
   10.2. Prior to a vehicle being towed due to force protection reasons, every effort must be
   made to contact the owner.
   10.3. A blotter entry must be made and DD Form 1408, DD Form 2505, and DD Form 2506
   must be accomplished.

11. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket
DD Form 2505, Vehicle Tow Authorization
DD Form 2506, Vehicle Impoundment Report
AF Form 52, Evidence Tag
AF Form 3545, Incident Report




                                            MICHAEL F. FLECK, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 325th Mission Support Group
