BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                        TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE
TYNDALL AIR FORCE BASE                                                INSTRUCTION 48-101

                                                                                 1 MARCH 2011

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                             PROTECTING THE HEALTH OF
                                                                   PREGNANT WORKERS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 325 AMDS/SGPM                                                  Certified by: 325 AMDS/CC
Supersedes: TYNDALLAFBI48-101,                                               (Lt Col Sarady Tan)
            9 August 2005                                                                Pages: 4


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program. This instruction
establishes procedures and assigns responsibilities for the management of pregnant active duty
and Federal Civilian Service personnel at Tyndall AFB. It outlines an assessment to determine if
any occupationally related hazards are present in the work environment that may pose a risk to
the mother and/or fetus. This includes exposure to hazardous and/or teratogenic chemicals,
ionizing radiation or extreme physical stresses. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. This publication may be supplemented at any level,
but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to
certification and approval. It applies to individuals at all levels who prepare, manage, review,
certify, approve, disseminate and/or use official Air Force publications and forms, including Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units, except where noted
otherwise. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

REFERENCES: AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, and AFI 48-145,
Occupational HealthProgram.

This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55, Medical and Dental Care; 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air
 2                                                    TYNDALLAFBI48-101 1 MARCH 2011


Force; and E.O. 9397 (SSN). System of records notice F044 AF SG E, Medical Record System,
applies.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Clarifies responsibilities.
1. GENERAL. Providing a safe working environment for all personnel is Air Force policy.
Pregnant employees will not be required nor requested to work with chemicals or agents that
could adversely affect normal pregnancy or development of the fetus. However, employees will
not be removed from normal duties unless identified hazards exist. If duty restrictions are
necessary, every effort to accommodate the employee will be made until normal duties can be
resumed
2. PROGRAM DETAILS. The following subparagraphs outline the required processing
timeline for a pregnant worker with an initial positive pregnancy test (i.e. Human Chorionic
Gonadotropin (HCG)) to completion of the AF Form 469/pregnancy profile.
     2.1. Worker is notified of a positive HCG and reports to her primary care manager (PCM)
     for the results. Patient is given a consult to the Women’s Health Clinic (WHC). After the
     member sees WHC, she is then given a temporary AF Form 469 and referred to Public
     Health (PH). This must be accomplished within 24 hours of positive HCG.
     2.2. PH enrolls the worker in the fetal protection program. If the member is working in an
     industrial shop, the profile package and the worker are sent to Bioenvironmental Flight
     (BEF) for further evaluation of hazards.
     2.3. Package returns to PH from BEF. PH reviews the BEF survey and reviews duty
     restrictions. PH prepares the AF Form 469 for PCM signature.
     2.4. The AF Form 469 is completed and electronically signed by the PCM. The AF Form
     469 is then electronically forwarded to the Profiling Officer (Flight Medicine), as well the
     member’s Squadron Commander. The time from confirmation of pregnancy to distribution
     of completed AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report, will be no more than 5 duty
     days.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. PH:
        3.1.1. Enrolls the worker in the fetal protection program and adds to program log.
        3.1.2. Interviews the pregnant worker to determine specific duties, workplace hazards
        and concerns. Documents all noted hazards both in the workplace and off duty. Provides
        educational materials on Fetal Hazards to the member.
        3.1.3. Telephones the supervisor of the worker in order to verify all workplace hazards
        and ensure no hazards were over looked. PH will conduct the interview without
        divulging any of the patient’s medical information.
        3.1.4. Consults with BEF concerning occupational exposures to potentially teratogenic or
        mutagenic hazards or ionizing radiation. A teratogen is any agent that interferes with
TYNDALLAFBI48-101 1 MARCH 2011                                                               3


     normal development of the embryo or fetus. PH then forwards the profile package to
     BEF for all members working in industrial workplaces.
     3.1.5. Compiles information from the patient interview, the supervisor interview, and the
     BEF workplace survey and generates an AF Form 469/pregnancy profile. Provides the
     profile electronically to the worker’s PCM for review and signature.
     3.1.6. Ensures all profile entries are IAW AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and
     Standards.
     3.1.7. Electronically forward AF Form 469 to the Profiling Officer (FSO) for review.
     Once FSO signs and closes the AF Form 469 it is automatically e-mailed to the members
     Squadron Commander and UDM. The Squadron Commander then approves or
     disapproves the AF Form 469. If approved, the Commander will sign the AF Form 469
     and give it to the member. If disapproved, the Commander will contact Force Health
     Management for further discussion and review.
     3.1.8. Will file a copy of the completed AF Form 469 in tab F of the industrial case file
     (Only if the member is in a Industrial shop). Another copy will be filed in the member’s
     medical record, along with the initial interview and a copy of the positive HCG lab.
     3.1.9. Closes case on fetal protection log.
  3.2. BEF:
     3.2.1. Assesses the workplace of all workers placed on the fetal protection program and
     referred from PH. Determines if any occupationally related hazards are present in the
     work environment that may pose a risk to the mother and/or fetus.
     3.2.2. Monitors pregnant workers occupationally exposed to ionizing radiation.
        3.2.2.1. Pregnant individuals found to be occupationally exposed to ionizing
        radiation must be interviewed by the Radiation Safety Officer (RSO) or equivalent.
        3.2.2.2. The Thermoluminescent Dosimetry (TLD) program manager will place the
        individual on the monthly exchange cycle.
        3.2.2.3. Those workers will be monitored on a monthly basis. The RSO will
        determine if work restrictions are necessary to ensure the total accumulated
        gestational dose remains <500 millirem (mrem) for the entire duration of the
        pregnancy.
     3.2.3. Provides recommendations on worker restrictions based on the hazards present in
     the workplace to PH for inclusion in the AF Form 469/pregnancy profile.
     3.2.4. Returns the BEF workplace assessment to PH within one duty day of receiving the
     referral.
  3.3. Medical Group Providers:
     3.3.1. Notify female workers of their positive HCG test immediately after receiving the
     result and provides appropriate prenatal care and counseling.
     3.3.2. Make an early determination of patient-specific duty limitations, if required.
     3.3.3. Provide a referral of the positive result to WHC and PH.
 4                                                    TYNDALLAFBI48-101 1 MARCH 2011


        3.3.4. Revise the pregnant worker’s physical profile as needed during the pregnancy.
     3.4. Tyndall AFB workers (active duty personnel and civilians):
        3.4.1. Report to WHC and PH after being notified of a positive HCG by their health care
        provider.
        3.4.2. Ensure their immediate supervisor has a copy of their completed AF Form 469.
        3.4.3. Will contact PH if status of pregnancy changes.
     3.5. Workplace supervisors:
        3.5.1. Ensure all pregnant employees under their supervision have reported to Public
        Health and have obtained an AF Form 469/pregnancy profile.
        3.5.2. Provide PH with information on all possible workplace hazards when called for an
        interview.
        3.5.3. Maintain a copy of the AF Form 469, which contains specific duty restrictions.
        3.5.4. Ensure all information provided on the AF Form 469/pregnancy profile is
        discussed with their employee and keep all information listed on the profile confidential.
        Disclosure of profile information without consent of the employee will lead to
        administrative action.
        3.5.5. Workplace supervisors of civilian employees will perform the above actions (3.5.1
        – 3.5.4) for all civilian employees who declare their pregnancy.

4. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 469, Duty Limiting Condition Report.




                                             GEORGE NICOLAS, JR., Col, USAF
                                             Commander, 325th Medical Group
