          325th Fighter Wing
 Commander’s Policy on Equal Opportunity
Our United States Air Force (USAF) is a rich and diverse community consisting of Airmen,
active duty, guard, reserve military members and civilian total force, with widely varied
backgrounds, beliefs, multi-cultural influences, and many unique life experiences. The Equal
Opportunity (EO) program has been developed to foster and support equal opportunity, and it
must be carried out in our day-to-day actions. I will not tolerate unlawful discrimination, unfair
treatment or any type of harassment or reprisal against individuals in my work force or any
reprisal towards anyone who engages in protected activity associated with EO. Our mission
depends on teamwork, trust and discipline. Discrimination and harassment are incompatible in
our 21st Century Air Force. Everyone is responsible for correcting and preventing inappropriate
behavior.
The EO program proactively engages all Airmen to
eliminate unlawful discrimination based on race, color,
national origin, religion, and sex; including for civilians
the basis of age (over 40), genetic information, disability
(mental and physical) and reprisal.
An effective Equal Opportunity (EO) Office facilitates the
military and civilian complaints’ process in accordance
with federal statute, regulations or Executive Order.
Tyndall Air Force Base will continue to provide equal
opportunity for all military and civilian Airmen. It is the
responsibility of every commander, manager, and
supervisor to maintain a workplace free of unlawful
discrimination and harassment, to ensure that Airmen
under their supervision are aware of this policy, to ensure
Airmen can report violations without fear of reprisal or
retaliation, to promptly, thoroughly and impartially
investigate complaints and to take appropriate corrective action when a violation is found
including disciplinary action, if warranted. Every Airman on Tyndall AFB must have a personal
investment in EO and diversity to create an environment that respects each person’s talents and
contributions to our work force.
Our human relations climate enhances Air Force readiness; anything less diminishes our mission
effectiveness. If you are unclear on what constitutes discriminatory behavior or harassment,
contact the EO Office at 283-4319/2379.


                                                     DAVID E. GRAFF
                                                     Colonel, USAF
                                                     Commander




TYNDALLAFBVA 36-2, 19 September 2013                          Releasability: No restrictions
Certified by: 325 FW/EO (Col David E. Graff))                 Prescribed by: AFI 36-2706
