BY ORDER OF THE                                           HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                           ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3510

                                                                               7 APRIL 2005
                                               Incorporating Through Change 2, 31 MAY 2011
                                                             Certified Current, 13 April 2012
                                                                                    Personnel

                                                     USAF ACADEMY CADET PROGRAM
                                                  RECOGNIZING CADET ACHIEVEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/DFRC                                              Certified by: HQ USAFA/DFR
                                                                          (Dr. Dean H. Wilson)
Supersedes:   USAFAI36-2812,                                                           Pages: 6
              18 October 1999


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, and establishes procedures and responsibilities to recognize cadet academic, military,
and athletic achievements and to provide incentives to stimulate overall cadet performance. It
applies to all US Air Force Academy activities involved in recognizing cadet achievements.
This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air
National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the opening paragraph. It also updates the office title from the
Office of the Registrar to Student Academic Affairs and Academy Registrar. Additionally, it
updates the office title of Examinations and Records to Academic Scheduling and Customer
Service. A margin bar (|) indicates revisions from the previous edition.
 2                                                               USAFAI36-3510 7 APRIL 2005




1. Achievement Lists. The Dean’s, Commandant’s, Athletic Director’s, and Superintendent’s
Lists recognize and reward cadets who excel in academic, athletic, or military performance,
stimulate cadets’ interest in improving their performance and are published at the end of each
academic semester after publication of probation (academic, honor, aptitude, conduct, or athletic)
lists.
2. Quality Points, Semester Grade Point Average (SGPA), Cumulative Grade Point
Average (CGPA), and Cumulative Overall Performance Average (COPA). See Curriculum
Handbook “Grading” chapter.
     2.1. Cumulative Military Performance Average (CMPA). See applicable Commandant
     of Cadets (CW) Training Wing operating instruction.
     2.2. Cumulative Physical Education Average (CPEA). See applicable Athletic operating
     instruction.
3. Graduation Recognition. The Academy Board will determine which cadets will receive
recognition at graduation once final semester academic, military, and physical education grades
are furnished by the Headquarters United States Air Force Academy Dean of the Faculty,
Student Academic Affairs and Academy Registrar (HQ USAFA/DFR).
     3.1. Distinguished Graduate. The graduation cumulative overall performance average
     (COPA) is used to identify “Distinguished Graduates.” It establishes the graduation rank
     order and gives preference for graduate education to the selected graduates. No more than the
     upper 10 percent of the cadets on the graduation rank-ordered COPA listing will be identified
     as distinguished graduates. These cadets will be listed first on the graduation program as a
     group and in COPA rank order. Distinguished graduates will receive their diplomas in COPA
     order before the rest of the graduates.
     3.2. “With Academic Distinction,” “With Military Distinction,” and “With Athletic
     Distinction.” If cadets have one of these honors, but not all, they will receive their diplomas
     alphabetically within their respective squadrons. See also Curriculum Handbook “Grading”
     chapter.
     3.3. Preference for Graduate Education. See Curriculum Handbook index under
     Graduate School Opportunities.
     3.4. Intercollegiate Athletic Achievement. Athletic achievement is recognized by letters,
     numerals, and other athletic awards, as determined by the Executive Committee of the Air
     Force Academy Athletic Association.
     3.5. Cadet Awards Program. Awards for outstanding achievement in military, academic,
     athletic, and extracurricular activities are described in USAFAI 36-2809, USAF Academy
     Cadet Awards Program.
4. Determining the Dean’s, Commandant’s, Athletic Director’s, and Superintendent’s
Lists:
     4.1. Cadets may not be on any list at any time if they are also on probation (academic, honor,
     aptitude, conduct, or athletic).
USAFAI36-3510 7 APRIL 2005                                                                     3


       4.1.1. 10th Communications Squadron (10 CS) computes the Dean’s, Commandant’s,
       and Athletic Director’s Lists at the end of each fall and spring semester.
       4.1.2. Academic Scheduling and Customer Service (HQ USAFA/DFRR) maintains these
       lists.
   4.2. Dean’s List. Consists of cadets who have a minimum course load and whose current
   SGPA is at least 3.0, excluding Physical Education grades.
       4.2.1. Fourth-class cadets who do not successfully complete accelerated or advanced
       courses and who are awarded “W” or “WF” grades in those courses are not eligible for
       the Dean’s List.
       4.2.2. Only grades for courses completed during the semester will count for the Dean’s
       List.
   4.3. Commandant’s List. Consists of those cadets whose current semester military
   performance average (MPA) is 3.00 or above.
       4.3.1. Cadets removed from probation at mid-semester who meet all other established
       criteria will be placed on the Commandant’s List.
       4.3.2. Fourth class cadets who received an Air Officer Commanding (AOC) rating of A+
       or A for basic cadet training (BCT) will be authorized to wear the Commandant’s pin for
       their fall academic year semester.
   4.4. Athletic Director’s List. Consists of cadets whose current semester physical education
   average (PEA) is 3.00 or above and who meet all other established criteria.
       4.4.1. A cadet must pass all Physical Education Courses, the Physical Fitness Test, and
       the Aerobic Fitness Test to be eligible for the Athletic Director’s List. See applicable
       Athletic operating instruction for special cases.
       4.4.2. A cadet who is removed from probation at mid-semester who meets all other
       established criteria will be placed on the Athletic Director's List.
   4.5. Superintendent’s List. Consists of cadets who are on the Dean’s, Commandant’s, and
   Athletic Director’s Lists.
       4.5.1. HQ USAFA/DFRR will compile the Superintendent’s list at the end of each fall
       and spring semester.
5. Determining Achievement Lists for Returning Cadets. Cadets returning after a period of
leave without pay (turnbacks) will be placed on any achievement list they were on before they
left the Academy.
   5.1. Cadets returning after honor suspension, disenrollment, or resignation will not be placed
   automatically on an achievement list. However, they may earn placement on any list as early
   as the first reporting cycle after returning to the Cadet Wing.
6. Late Graduations:
   6.1. All cadets who graduate late because of circumstances within their control, such as
   failing a required course, will be assigned a COPA rank order below all earlier graduates.
 4                                                              USAFAI36-3510 7 APRIL 2005


     6.2. Cadets who graduate late through no fault of their own, such as a delay due to medical
     reasons, may be assigned a COPA rank order equal to comparable classmates who graduated
     on time.
     6.3. All late graduates will be awarded any graduation recognition they would have earned
     had they graduated on time. Transcripts will note this recognition.
7. Administrative Actions:
     7.1. When a cadet is listed on the Dean’s, Commandant’s, Athletic Director’s, or
     Superintendent’s List, the following administrative actions will be taken:
        7.1.1. A notation will be made on the grade report and on the permanent transcript.
        These transcript entries will not be changed if cadets are later removed from achievement
        lists because they were placed on probation.
        7.1.2. Cadets on the Superintendent’s List will be granted additional privileges under
        current Cadet Wing directives.
        7.1.3. After a cadet has graduated, his or her permanent transcript will reflect the final
        CGPA rank order standing in the graduation class (for example, “137 of 992”).
        7.1.4. The Registrar and Director of Academic Affairs will notify a cadet, in writing,
        who qualifies for preference for graduate education.
8. COPA, CMPA, and CPEA Listings:
     8.1. These will not be made available for public dissemination.
        8.1.1. The graduation COPA rank order will not be released to graduates before the
        graduation exercise. HQ USAFA/DFRR will forward the rank-ordered graduation COPA
        listing only to Cadet Awards (HQ USAFA/CMA) and Graduation Programs
        (HQ USAFA/DFRL), Public Affairs Media Relations Division (HQ USAFA/PAM), and
        the Academy Board.
        8.1.2. After the graduation exercise, HQ USAFA/DFRR will forward the graduation
        rank-ordered COPA listing to the Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC).
        8.1.3. Upon written request, HQ USAFA/DFRR will furnish the graduate with his or her
        individual COPA rank order.
9. Responsibilities:
     9.1. Commandant of Cadets (HQ USAFA/CW):
        9.1.1. Notifies HQ USAFA/DFRR when cadets are to be removed from or added to the
        Commandant’s List due to an administrative error.
        9.1.2. Notifies HQ USAFA/DFRR immediately to remove a cadet from the
        Commandant’s, Dean’s, Athletic Director's and Superintendent’s Lists as a result of
        being placed on honor probation.
     9.2. Dean of the Faculty (HQ USAFA/DF):
        9.2.1. Notifies HQ USAFA/DFRR when cadets are to be removed from or added to the
        Dean’s List due to an administrative error.
USAFAI36-3510 7 APRIL 2005                                                                      5


      9.2.2. Deleted.
   9.3. The Director of Athletics (HQ USAFA/AD), through Physical Education
   (HQ USAFA/ADP):
      9.3.1. Notifies HQ USAFA/DFRR when cadets are to be removed from or added to the
      Athletic Director's List due to an administrative error.
      9.3.2. Deleted.
      9.3.3. Deleted.
   9.4. HQ USAFA/DFRR:
      9.4.1. Updates achievement lists as necessary.
      9.4.2. Prepares the Graduation Program by annotating all records for each cadet
      graduating with distinction or honors.
      9.4.3. Places Superintendent’s letter notifying cadet of graduate education preference in
      diploma box, and forwards copies to Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) and
      AFPC.
      9.4.4. After each graduation ceremony, forwards rank-order listings of final COPA to the
      AFPC.
10. Information Collections, Records, and Forms or Information Management Tools
(IMT).
   10.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
   10.2. Records. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
   publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
   Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
   Disposition             Schedule             (RDS)             located             at
   https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
   10.3. Forms or IMTs (Adopted and Prescribed).
      10.3.1. Adopted Forms or IMTs: AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
      Publication.
      10.3.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs: No forms or IMTs were adopted by this publication.




                                           DANA H. BORN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                           Dean of the Faculty
 6                                                  USAFAI36-3510 7 APRIL 2005


                                    Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BCT—Basic Cadet Training
CGPA—Cumulative Grade Point Average
CMPA—Cumulative Military Performance Average
COPA—Cumulative Overall Performance Average
CPEA—Cumulative Physical Education Average
SGPA—Quality Points, Semester Grade Point Average
