BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3537

                                                                                  25 APRIL 2012

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                                   CADET SOCIAL DECORUM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/CWV                                                         Certified by: USAFA/CW
                                                                     (Brig Gen Richard M. Clark)
                                                                                        Pages: 7


This instruction implements guidance to Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States
Air Force Academy, AFPD 34-12, Air Force Protocol and AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force
Military Personnel. Each directive prescribes United States Air Force Academy (USAFA)
responsibilities to plan, program and execute social decorum training to the cadet wing. This
instruction applies to all personnel or agencies that conduct, consult, finance, support or execute
social decorum training. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS),
located in https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.

1. INTRODUCTION.
   1.1. Purpose. The purpose of the social decorum program is to educate and train cadets on
   expected standards of behavior for Air Force officers in a variety of social situations. Air
   Force officers are judged beyond the flightline and workplace. The mission of the United
   States Air Force Academy is to develop leaders of character; behavior, both professional and
   social, is a reflection of one’s character. Improper behavior can have detrimental impacts on
   workplace culture and ultimately impact mission accomplishment.
2                                                            USAFAI36-3537 25 APRIL 2012


    1.2. Objective. The objective of the social decorum program is to provide cadets with the
    knowledge and resources to ensure appropriate social behavior while being approachable in
    and out of uniform. The program will provide instruction both in the classroom, as well as in
    actual social events to provide as much realism as possible. Social decorum training is
    imperative to ensure our future officers have confidence and are comfortable in all social
    situations.
    1.3. Oversight. The Vice Commandant (USAFA/CWV) shall provide oversight of the
    social decorum program. If the Social Decorum program uses contracted support, the 10th
    Contracting Squadron will provide quality assurance training for a CWV-assigned evaluator
    to oversee the social decorum contract. The Vice Commandant provides execution guidance
    to the Social Decorum Program Manager with respect to the appropriateness of course
    content, conflicts with USAFA Master Calendar or Schedule of Calls, contracted services or
    materials, etc. If the service is contracted, all such guidance will be provided via contract
    modification. Course feedback, trend analysis and recommendations for improvement shall
    be compiled and incorporated into future lesson plans.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
    2.1. Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW). The Commandant shall approve the social
    decorum curriculum, and shall ensure proper execution of the program in accordance with
    the Superintendent's requirements in this instruction, as well as with all Air Force and
    USAFA policies and instructions.
       2.1.1. Vice Commandant (USAFA/CWV). The Vice Commandant serves as the
       Commandant’s OPR for the Social Decorum program. As the OPR, USAFA/CWV shall:
           2.1.1.1. Oversee all aspects of the Social Decorum program, including the
           curriculum, course scheduling and budget compliance.
           2.1.1.2. Ensure the USAFA/CW Director of Curriculum reviews all lesson plans for
           instructional systems soundness.
           2.1.1.3. If the Social Decorum program uses contracted support, USAFA/CWV will
           assign a quality assurance representative to ensure the service provided is in
           compliance with the contracted requirements.
       2.1.2. Social Decorum Program Manager (USAFA/CWVVS). The program manager
       shall:
           2.1.2.1. Develop, plan and execute a comprehensive social decorum training program
           instructing cadets, as required, on the correct protocol for social and business
           situations. The training should include military, dining, and social decorum. Topics
           of instruction include: Personal/social correspondence (invitations, RSVPs, thank you
           notes, etc.), receiving lines, appropriate civilian attire, basic manners, common
           courtesies, telephone etiquette, table etiquette, and proper etiquette for typical
           USAFA functions (ring dance, sponsor visits, graduation and commissioning
           ceremonies, dining-ins, dining-outs and events at senior leaders’ quarters).
           2.1.2.2. Develop, coordinate and track program goals. Archive metrics in support of
           program goals.
USAFAI36-3537 25 APRIL 2012                                                                 3


        2.1.2.3. Develop and maintain a comprehensive collection of training materials.
        Examples include, but are not limited to: books, guides, pamphlets, visual aids, films
        or videos and other materials.
        2.1.2.4. Develop, publish and execute the social decorum program while integrating
        with the USAFA Master Calendar and the Schedule of Calls.
        2.1.2.5. Conduct post-training surveys and provide them to the CWV for lesson plan
        and curriculum improvements.
        2.1.2.6. Develop lesson plans and course curriculum and conduct-approved training
        for the cadet wing. Training will occur annually. Each fourth-, third- and second-
        class cadet should receive at least one hour of classroom instruction per academic
        year commensurate with their class year (see paragraph 3.1.1.) in addition to any
        mass briefings required to prepare for upcoming major social events.
        2.1.2.7. Maintain a website, incorporated into USAFA Information Technology (IT)
        infrastructure, providing social decorum tools and reference material. The social
        decorum program shall utilize internet-based correspondence and publications as
        much as practicable.
        2.1.2.8. Maintain a database of attendees for all courses. If Personally Identifiable
        Information is needed for course accountability, all records will be managed in
        accordance with AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, and AFMAN 33- 363,
        Management of Records.
        2.1.2.9. Coordinate a developed lesson plan through USAFA/CWV for USAFA/CW
        approval.
        2.1.2.10. Develop quarterly budget estimates for execution of the program and
        submit to USAFA/CWV no later than 15 days prior to the beginning of a new quarter.
        2.1.2.11. Coordinate with alumni organizations to receive post-graduate feedback on
        the effectiveness of the social decorum program.
     2.1.3. Directorate of Training Support (USAFA/CWT). USAFA/CWT shall:
        2.1.3.1. Schedule social decorum training course times commensurate with other
        commissioning education courses.
        2.1.3.2. Collect feedback from Cadet Sponsors and Operation Air Force bases
        regarding cadet behavior and forward to the Social Decorum Program Manager.
  2.2. 10th Air Base Wing (10 ABW). Assign applicable duties within 10 ABW to support
  social decorum program.
     2.2.1. 10th Contracting Squadron (10 CONS). If the social decorum program is a
     contracted service awarded by 10 CONS, 10 CONS shall provide necessary contract
     administration and oversight support to ensure successful program execution.
     2.2.2. 10th Logistics Readiness Squadron (10 LRS). All requests for transportation
     support for Social Decorum training must meet the criteria/compliance standards within
     AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, specifically Chapters 1 & 3. If transportation request(s)
     cannot be supported with organic resources assigned (due to mission impact/higher
 4                                                             USAFAI36-3537 25 APRIL 2012


        mission priority driven), then the requesting organization must be prepared to fund the
        transportation assets required for that request.
     2.3. Directorate of Strategic Communications (USAFA/CM). USAFA/CM shall:
        2.3.1. Disburse gift funds for approved budget items in support of the social decorum
        program.
3. PROGRAM. Social decorum implies mastery of respect, consideration and communication
skills in social settings. The program will build upon these attributes as well as reinforce Air
Force Core Values through a comprehensive training program. The course curriculum consists
of a foundation of mandatory courses used to prepare cadets for social expectations at Air Force
functions as well as providing instruction and tools for proper representation at other social
events. Learning objectives for the program are rooted in institutional competencies as required
by AFI 36-2014, Commissioning Education Program. Those learning objectives are listed in
Attachment 2. The progression of courses will follow the Personal-Interpersonal-Team-
Organization (PITO) model, developing skills in accordance with the model as cadets progress
from a ―follower‖ to an ―organizational leader.‖ The program will develop each cadet to meet
specific expectations during their USAFA tenure.
     3.1. Mandatory Courses. To meet the learning objectives set for the social decorum
     program, each cadet must participate in the classroom instruction and just-in-time training
     listed below.
        3.1.1. Classroom Instruction. Each cadet will receive at least one hour of social
        decorum training in a classroom setting per academic year. This training will include a
        progression of skills/experiences appropriate to their class year. Training can be
        repetitive and cumulative, to ensure that proper social behavior is inherent by graduation.
            3.1.1.1. Fourth-Class Cadets. In their first year at USAFA, fourth-class cadets will
            be taught etiquette with regard to interacting with their sponsor as well as their
            roommates. The course should emphasize courtesies and standards of behavior,
            proper hygiene, how to be a sponsor’s guest, social conversations, and writing thank
            you cards.
            3.1.1.2. Third-Class Cadets. In their second year at USAFA, third-class cadets will
            be taught etiquette in small group situations, proper civilian dress standards, table
            etiquette (settings, seating, decorum, conversation), receiving line etiquette and
            military dining-in/out etiquette. Written and verbal social communications will also
            be reinforced.
            3.1.1.3. Second-Class Cadets. In the third year at USAFA, second-class cadets will
            be taught social introductions, how to behave when alcohol is available, how to plan
            social events and how to communicate standards of behavior to their peers and
            subordinates. Civilian dress standards, written and verbal social communications will
            once again be reinforced.
            3.1.1.4. First-Class Cadets -- Formal Decorum Training. Experiential,
            semiformal dinners will be held to teach first-class cadets the dos and don’ts of
            formal dining. The events will also be used to teach proper invitation and RSVP
            procedures, proper civilian attire standards and social event planning.
USAFAI36-3537 25 APRIL 2012                                                                   5


     3.1.2. Event-Driven/Just-in-Time Training. Many events occur at USAFA that
     require just-in-time training with regard to social behavior. These events include, but are
     not limited to, Doolie Day Out, Air Force Ball, Autumn Ball, Ring Dance, Graduation
     Ball, Falcon Foundation Dinner and the Graduate Scholar’s Reception. The Social
     Decorum program will host mass briefings for these events to ensure cadet social
     behavior meets the program’s objectives.
     3.1.3. Leadership Support. Throughout the four-year experience at USAFA, cadets are
     given the opportunity to practice their social decorum skills at a variety of events hosted
     by different mission elements. Even though social decorum is not the primary purpose of
     these events, they serve the secondary purpose of providing cadets an opportunity to test
     or practice their skills in a real social setting. When requested by the senior leader host
     (Superintendent, Commandant, Dean or Athletic Director), the social decorum program
     will attend these events, provide cadets with feedback on appropriate practices and
     provide USAFA leadership with an assessment of the success of the training event.
4. FUNDING.
  4.1. Gift Funds. Use of gift funds in support of the social decorum program shall follow
  USAFAI 51-601, USAF Academy Management and Use of Gift Funds, 5 January 2011.
  4.2. Appropriated Funds (APF). Use of appropriate funds in support of the social decorum
  program shall follow AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005.
  4.3. Nonappropriated Funds (NAF). Use of appropriate funds in support of the social
  decorum program shall follow AFMAN 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting
  Procedures, 3 November 2000.




                                          MICHAEL C. GOULD, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          Superintendent
 6                                                       USAFAI36-3537 25 APRIL 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Program, 16 May 2011
AFI 36-2014, Commissioning Education Program, 22 April 2008
AFI 65-601V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMAN 64-302, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures, 3 November 2000
AFPD 34-12, Air Force Protocol, 14 March 2005
AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel, 23 December 2008
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 25 May 2011
USAFAI 51-601, USAF Academy Management and Use of Gift Funds, 5 January 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
IT—Information Technology
MWR—Morale, Welfare and Recreation
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PITO—Personal-Interpersonal-Team-Organization
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI36-3537 25 APRIL 2012                                                                   7


                                        Attachment 2
     SOCIAL DECORUM INSTITUTIONAL COMPETENCY-BASED LEARNING
                           OBJECTIVES

A2.1. Institutional Competency – Embodies Airmen Culture (Personal).
   A2.1.1. Sub-competency – Warrior Ethos: Exhibits a hardiness of spirit despite physical and
   mental hardships – moral and physical courage. Continuously hones their skills to support
   the employment of military capabilities. Displays military/executive bearing, self-discipline
   and self-control.
      A2.1.1.1. Learning Objectives.
          A2.1.1.1.1. Know appropriate attire, conduct, customs and courtesies for informal
          and formal social settings and events.
A2.2. Institutional Competency – Communicating (Personal).
   A2.2.1. Sub-competency – Speaking and Writing: Articulates ideas and intent in a clear,
   concise and convincing manner through both verbal and written communication. Adjusts
   communication approach to unique operational environment and audience needs. Effectively
   creates communication bridges between units, organizations, and institutions.
      A2.2.1.1. Learning Objectives.
          A2.2.1.1.1. Know appropriate verbal communication for informal and formal social
          settings and events.
          A2.2.1.1.2. Know appropriate written communication for informal and formal social
          settings and events.
