BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-2813

                                                                                28 MARCH 2013
                                                                Certified Current on 12 May 2014
                                                                                       Personnel

                                                   AIR FORCE ACADEMY DISTINGUISHED
                                                                    SERVICE AWARD

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/CMA                                                 Certified by: HQ USAFA/CMA
                                                                              (Mr. Brian A. Binn)
Supersedes:    USAFAI36-2813,                                                            Pages: 5
               6 January 2000


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations,
for the Air Force Academy Distinguished Service Award. It provides selection criteria and
nomination procedures for the Academy Distinguished Service Award, honoring a military,
civilian, or a group’s significant contributions to the morale or well-being of the United States
Air Force Academy. This instruction applies to all individuals and organizations that choose to
nominate an individual or group for the Distinguished Service Award. This publication does not
apply to the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the Air National Guard (ANG).
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Instruction primarily updates office symbols/titles and makes other required administrative
changes to the January 2000 version of USAFAI 36-2813. In addition: broadened the
presentation period to include the fall (paragraph 6); changed the location of the plaque from
Harmon Hall to Arnold Hall (paragraph 6); added former Superintendents to those invited to
nominate candidates (paragraph 7.1); removed Association of Graduates paragraph, as the AOG
is not involved in the Award (paragraph 11). Reference to an obsolete form has been deleted.
 2                                                          USAFAI36-2813 28 MARCH 2013


1. The Academy Distinguished Service Award. The United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA) established the Air Force Academy Distinguished Service Award in February 1999.
Each year the award will be presented by the Superintendent to a military, civilian, or group,
whose contributions have had a distinct impact on the morale or well-being of the Academy.
Any individual or group who has contributed significantly and directly to the morale or well-
being of the Academy through their generous donation of time, resources, or influence is
eligible.
2. Award Timetable. In January of each year, the Director of Communication
(HQ USAFA/CM), through the Development and Alumni Programs Division
(HQ USAFA/CMA), will seek nominations from the Academy community at large, Association
of Graduates (AOG) chapters, former Superintendents, and supporting USAF Academy
foundations. Nominations must be submitted to HQ USAFA/CMA, 2304 Cadet Drive, Suite
3100, USAF Academy CO 80840-5002, not later than 1 April of the current year.
3. Selection Criteria. Award selection is based on an individual’s or group’s accomplishments,
which have had a long-term positive effect on the morale or well-being of the Air Force
Academy. Former military and civilian employees are eligible upon termination of employment
from the USAF Academy. However, the Academy Distinguished Service Award is intended to
recognize those individuals who contribute not as part of their official duty but through their
personal generosity and dedication to the institution. Personnel currently assigned to the
Academy can be considered for the award as long as their contributions were performed outside
of their official duty.
4. Nomination Packages. Packages should be divided into two sections.
     4.1. . A single page with biographical data to include name, rank (if military), duty or job
     title, organization or company, telephone number, and mailing address of the nominee or
     nominee’s Next of Kin (NOK) for posthumous nominations. Posthumous nominations
     should be identified as such. A group of individuals can be considered if it was the group
     action that made the contribution to the Academy.
     4.2. . A typed narrative justification, not to exceed one page, describing the nominee’s
     accomplishments which contributed to a long-term positive effect on the morale or well-
     being of the United States Air Force Academy. Place the nominee's name in the top left
     margin.
5. Selection Process. HQ USAFA/CM will identify and chair the selection committee
comprised of senior representatives from the HQ USAFA staff, Commandant of Cadets
(USAFA/CW), Dean of the Faculty (USAFA/DF), Athletics (USAFA/AD), and 10th Air Base
Wing (10 ABW). They will evaluate and recommend a recipient or recipients for the
Superintendent’s approval. The Superintendent will announce the Academy Distinguished
Service Award recipients via public announcement. The award will not be limited to one per
year but will be kept to a minimum to preserve the honor and prestige of the award. Recipients
will be notified by 15 May.
6. Award Recognition. The award will be presented in the summer or fall of each year at an
event hosted by the Superintendent. Presentation date will be arranged based on the schedule
and availability of the honorees, NOK in for posthumous honoree, and the Superintendent.
Guests will include the honorees, NOK (if appropriate) and guests, members of the senior staff,
USAFAI36-2813 28 MARCH 2013                                                                      3


representatives of USAFA foundations, and members of the local community, as appropriate.
The recipients will each receive an award and citation. In addition, the recipients’ names will be
affixed to the Academy Distinguished Service Award plaque displayed in Arnold Hall.
7. The Director, Academy Communication (HQ USAFA/CM), Through the Development
and Alumni Programs Division (HQ USAFA/CMA):
   7.1. Requests nominations from Academy agencies, former Superintendents, and supporting
   USAF Academy foundations.
   7.2. Prepares Superintendent’s (HQ USAFA/CC) letter to the recipients notifying them of
   the selection.
   7.3. Coordinates with recipients to arrange presentation date.
   7.4. Coordinates presentation date with HQ USAFA/CC, Protocol (HQ USAFA/DSP), and
   Public Affairs (HQ USAFA/PA).
   7.5. Budgets for and funds the awards, historical plaques, and recipients’ travel and lodging.
       7.5.1. Appropriated funds will be used to purchase the awards and plaques.
       7.5.2. Initiates and arranges travel plans, if required, and issues appropriate invitational
       travel orders for the recipients. Orders will specify that per diem is not authorized.
   7.6. Coordinates with the recipients and HQ USAFA/DSP to develop, for HQ USAFA/CC
   approval, an appropriate guest list for the event.
   7.7. Develops presentation citations and event program and coordinates them with
   HQ USAFA/CC for approval.
   7.8. Requests engraving of awards and plates for the historical plaque.
   7.9. Requests official record copies of the program, citations, photos, and other associated
   records.
   7.10. Requests through the Photo Lab and Studio (PAVSCP) photographer to document the
   event and prepare a commemorative album for the recipients.
   7.11. Prepares an article for the Association of Graduates Checkpoints magazine and
   coordinates with HQ USAFA/PA to publicize presentation in the Academy Spirit and in local
   and national publications, as appropriate.
8. The Director of Protocol (HQ USAFA/DSP):
   8.1. Coordinates with HQ USAFA/CMA to develop, for HQ USAFA/CC approval, an
   appropriate guest list for the event.
   8.2. Funds social events using either Official Representation Funds or Superintendent's
   unrestricted gift funds.
   8.3. Provides protocol support for the event and presentation.
9. The Director of Public Affairs (HQ USAFA/PA):
   9.1. Provides appropriate publicity for awards presentation.
   9.2. Provides photographic support through PAVSCP as requested by HQ USAFA/CMA.
 4                                                       USAFAI36-2813 28 MARCH 2013


10. The Superintendent’s Commander’s Action Group (HQ USAFA/DSX):
     10.1. Prepares remarks to be used by the HQ USAFA/CC, as required.




                                           DAVID K. CANNON
                                           Director of Communication
USAFAI36-2813 28 MARCH 2013                                 5


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations, 30 July 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
NOK—Next of kin
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
