BY ORDER OF THE                                              HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                              ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3503

                                                                                    3 MAY 2012
                                                            Incorporating Change 1, 23 June 2012

                                                                                          Personnel

                                                   MANAGEMENT OF FLYING PERSONNEL

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: This publication has no releasability restrictions.


OPR: HQ USAFA/A1K                                                   Certified by: HQ USAFA/A1K
                                                                           (Lt Col Alan Gladfelter)
                                                                                          Pages: 5
Supersedes:    USAFAI36-3503,
               13 March 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, and outlines the policies pertaining to USAF Academy rated personnel. This
instruction applies to all United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) personnel. This
publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard
(ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records        Disposition         Schedule        (RDS)         located         at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates paragraph 3.1.1. Powered Flight.           A margin bar (|) indicates
revisions from the previous edition.
1. Policies. HQ USAFA/A1K will work to ensure Academy Mission Partner (MP) rated
manning levels mirror United States Air Force (USAF) rated manning entitlements pertaining to
each particular weapon system. MP commanders or directors, through their respective MP
 2                                                                    USAFAI36-3503 3 MAY 2012


Flying Coordinator (see paragraph 2.), in conjunction with the Chief, HQ USAFA/A1K and the
306th Flying Training Group Commander (306 FTG/CC), will select and release rated
faculty/staff personnel to support Academy flight programs. Selected rated personnel will then
be attached to USAFA airmanship programs in authorized gate credit positions.
     1.1. Authorized airmanship programs. Authorized 306 FTG airmanship programs for
     attached USAFA rated members: 94th Flying Training Squadron (94 FTS) (Soaring), 98th
     Flying Training Squadron (98 FTS) (Jump), 557th Flying Training Squadron (557 FTS)
     (Powered Flight). Rated personnel in the grade of O-5 and below who are selected and
     released by their MP commander/director and medically cleared to fly will fulfill both their
     MP and rated responsibilities.
     1.2. Rated personnel assigned to gate credit positions will have a prefix (P for pilot, N for
     navigator) added to their Air Force Specialty Code (AFSC) (if not designated as 11XX for
     pilots and 12XX for navigators) and be in Aviation Position Indicator (API) codes 3, 4, 6, or
     8. Assignment of prefixes must be coordinated through 306 OSS/OSOF (306 FTG HARM)
     and HQ USAFA/A1K.
     1.3. Commanders, directors, and department heads must recognize and support the flying
     time commitment. Attached pilots’ primary duties include flight operations. This instruction
     assumes each attached flyer will spend 25 percent of their on-duty time performing flying
     duties. An officer’s MP responsibilities and flying duties carry equal weight in
     accomplishing the overall USAFA mission.
     1.4. Initial scheduling of rated duties in a formal course will be made by 306 FTG/CC (POC:
     306 FTG Registrar) in coordination with HQ USAFA/A1K and respective MP Flying
     Coordinator.
     1.5. Each flying program may have a prescribed Active Duty Service Commitment (ADSC)
     and expected payback. Personnel selected to support USAFA Airmanship programs are
     expected to be attached for a minimum period of two years for program viability and
     planning purposes. They will also be expected to perform rated flying duty in accordance
     with (IAW) the guidelines in paragraph 3.
     1.6. Newly assigned pilots will be scheduled by 306 OSS/OSTR (306 FTG Registrar) to
     begin flying in the first available training class after their arrival in the local area. Exceptions
     will be coordinated through the 306 FTG Registrar, the rated officer’s MP Flying
     Coordinator, and HQ USAFA/A1K.
     1.7. Rated faculty and staff members in the rank O-6 and above can fly as mission needs
     dictate. Active flying justifications for O-6 or higher not covered by an approved Manpower
     Standard need approval of AF/DPO IAW AFI 38-201, Management of Manpower
     Requirements and Authorizations, coordinated with the 306 FTG/CC and owning MP. Local
     approval authority for exceptions in this paragraph is HQ USAFA/A1.
         1.7.1. When rated faculty and staff members in the rank O-6 and above participate in
         Academy Flying Programs, priority to attached status will be given to junior-ranking
         rated personnel who must maintain currency or accrue gate months. This may require O-
         6s to halt their participation to meet the mission requirements of the AF as a whole.
USAFAI36-3503 3 MAY 2012                                                                        3


   1.8. Reservists must be assigned in a full-time status to a valid flying Reserve position to be
   considered for attached duties. Verification for attachment of these individuals will be
   coordinated and provided by the Air Reserve Personnel Center.
2. Flying Coordinators. Each MP and the Direct Reporting Unit (DRU) staff will appoint a
Mission Partner Flying Coordinator to serve as his/her representative for flying matters. The
Flying Coordinator is the unit’s representative for questions, information, policies, and problems
involving units of the 306 FTG and the supported USAFA flying programs.
3. Specific Programs:
   3.1. 557 FTS.
       3.1.1. Powered Flight. Pilots will be qualified as powered flight instructors and will fly
       one sortie every other day (20 sorties per course for AOCs) during the academic year.
       Each pilot will fly full-time for one summer period annually with the exception of those
       assigned to the DRU staff who may opt to fly one sortie every other day through the
       summer periods.
       3.1.2. Flight Test Techniques. Specific workload requirements will be governed by the
       appropriate USAFA directives in coordination with the 557 FTS. Pilots are expected to
       participate in flying operations two to three days per week, as needed, to support program
       requirements. Flight Test Techniques sortie opportunities are very limited and are
       restricted to selected department faculty members and others chosen by the 557 FTS and
       the relevant course director.
   3.2. 98 FTS. Attached UV-18 pilots will fly an average of five days per month, including
   one Saturday. Pilots will also support one deployment per year (Spring Training,
   Thanksgiving, and/or Winter Break) and will participate in one summer period.
   3.3. 94 FTS. Pilots will be qualified as a soaring instructor pilot and support the 94 FTS as
   required. Pilots will fly two to three periods per week including one Saturday per month, if
   required, to support program requirements. Each pilot will be available for one summer
   period annually and one holiday period such as Spring Break or Winter Break every other
   year.
4. Program Management.
   4.1. Reports. HQ USAFA/A1K will maintain and publish a roster of all Academy attached
   flyers each September that includes each officer’s assigned Academy department, date of
   arrival at USAFA, total gate months completed, flying duty start date, flying squadron
   assignment, and projected departure.
   4.2. Attachment for flying duties. Priority for attachment will be given to those rated
   Academy faculty and staff with fewer than 120 gate months. USAFA and Air Education and
   Training Command (AETC) will determine the annual attached flyer requirement based on
   flying program needs. HQ USAFA/A1K, in its annual review, may recommend changes in
   MP participation to reflect the proportion of valid rated positions on the respective MP’s Unit
   Manpower Document.
   4.3. Removal from flying duties. HQ USAFA/A1K will remove attached pilots based upon
   306 FTG/CC recommendations in coordination with the MP Flying Coordinator. MP Flying
   Coordinators will coordinate removals with their commander, director, or department head.
 4                                                            USAFAI36-3503 3 MAY 2012


5. Requests for policy deviation, suggestions for policy revisions, and any questions will be
submitted to HQ USAFA/A1K through the appropriate Mission Partner Flying
Coordinator.




                                          JOHN T. LINN, Colonel, USAF
                                          Director, Manpower and Personnel
USAFAI36-3503 3 MAY 2012                                                          5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 38-201, Management of Manpower Requirements and Authorizations, 26 Sep 2011
AFMAN 33-363_USAFASUP, Management of Records, 9 Sep 2009
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 25 May 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 480, Aircrew AFSC/Active Flying Justification
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADSC—Active Duty Service Commitment
AETC—Air Education and Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
API—Aircrew Position Indicator
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
FTG—Flying Training Group
FTS—Flying Training Squadron
MP—Mission Partner
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
