BY ORDER OF THE                                          HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                          ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3540

                                                                                 2 MAY 2012
                                                       Incorporating Change 1, 6 March 2013
                                                             Certified Current on 4 May 2014
                                                                                    Personnel

                                                  THE US AIR FORCE ACADEMY BOARD

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/RR                                                 Certified by: HQ USAFA/RR
                                                                   (Col Carolyn A. Benyshek)
Supersedes:   USAFAI36-2003,                                                         Pages: 6
              8 July 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, and describes the membership, functions, responsibilities, and standing committees of
the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) Board. The basic authority for establishing this
Board is Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.), Chapter 903, United States Air Force Academy.
This publication applies to the Academy Board, its membership, and all standing committees of
the Board. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and
the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AF Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates Table 1. A margin bar (|) indicates revisions from the previous
edition.
1. Board Membership. All members are appointed by the Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC)
and must be in the grade of colonel or above (or civilian equivalent). Table 1. lists Board
members:
 2                                                                USAFAI36-3540 2 MAY 2012


Table 1. Academy Board Members.
Superintendent                         Member with vote
Vice Superintendent                    Member with vote
Commandant of Cadets                   Member with vote
Dean of the Faculty                    Member with vote
Director of Athletics                  Member with vote
Director of Athletic Programs/Physical Member with vote
Education
Chair, Basic Sciences Division         Member with vote
Chair, Engineering Division            Member with vote
Chair, Humanities Division             Member with vote
Chair, Social Sciences Division        Member with vote
Vice Commandant                        Member with vote
Member-at-large                        Member with vote
Director of Admissions                 Secretary of the Board, without a vote
Note: HQ USAFA/CC will appoint one member-at-large.
2. Operating Procedures:
     2.1. The Academy Board meets at the call of the Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC). A
     standing committee or any member of the Academy Board may submit items for
     consideration by the Board. The senior member present will preside.
     2.2. A majority of the regular members constitutes a quorum, and each voting member
     present has one vote on any issue. Voting is by secret ballot, and a majority decides any
     issue put to a vote. In a tie, the presiding officer has one additional vote.
     2.3. No member of the Academy Board may take part in the deliberation or vote on a cadet
     case or admission in which he/she has an adversarial relationship or conflict of interest with
     the individual cadet or case being considered. In this context, an adversarial relationship or
     conflict of interest must stem from a personal involvement in the case as opposed to a
     professional one. Members of the Academy Board have an affirmative duty to recuse
     themselves to comply with this guidance. The Superintendent or designated representative
     will decide all questions regarding an Academy Board member’s reclusion from a case.
     2.4. Unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent, the following members must attend
     when the cases indicated are presented to the Academy Board:
        2.4.1. The Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW) for honor cases along with applicable
        Military Review Committee (MRC) chair for MRC cases.
        2.4.2. The Dean of the Faculty (USAFA/DF) and applicable Academic Review
        Committee (ARC) chair for ARC cases.
        2.4.3. The Director of Athletics (USAFA/AD) and Physical Education Review
        Committee (PERC) chair for PERC cases.
        2.4.4. For cases in which the Academy Board is considering cadets for disenrollment, the
        cadet’s Air Officer Commanding (AOC) will attend. If the Squadron AOC is not
        available, the Squadron Academy Military Trainer (AMT) and Group AOC will attend.
USAFAI36-3540 2 MAY 2012                                                                       3


   2.5. The proceedings of the Academy Board are closed, and its deliberations are held in
   confidence, except as required by higher authority. Members of the Academy Board will not
   discuss the deliberations outside of the board proceedings.
   2.6. The HQ USAFA/CC (or designated representative), with the advice of the Academy
   Board, has review and approval authority over all Academy Board standing committees.
3. Title 10 U. S.C. Responsibilities:
   3.1. “A cadet who is reported as deficient in conduct or studies and recommended to be
   discharged from the Academy may not, unless recommended by the Academy Board, be
   returned or reappointed to the Academy” (10 U.S.C. Section 9351, Cadets: Deficiencies in
   Conduct or Studies; Effect of Failure on Successor).
   3.2. “If it is determined that, upon the admission of a new class to the Academy, the number
   of cadets at the Academy will be below the authorized number, the Secretary of the Air Force
   may fill the vacancies by nominating additional cadets from qualified candidates designated
   as alternates and from other qualified candidates who competed for nomination and are
   recommended and found qualified by the Academy Board” (10 U.S.C. Section 9343, Cadets:
   Appointment; to Bring to Full Strength).
4. Superintendent:
   4.1. The Superintendent normally obtains the advice of the Academy Board before acting on
   the following matters:
       4.1.1. Selection and admissions policies.
       4.1.2. Methods for evaluating cadet conduct and aptitude for commissioned service.
       4.1.3. Intercollegiate athletic policies.
       4.1.4. The Academy calendar and cadet scheduling policy.
       4.1.5. Policies and procedures for the selection, assignment, and appointment of officials
       who instruct cadets (e.g., faculty, AOCs, and coaches).
       4.1.6. Merit rolls and achievement awards.
       4.1.7. Privilege systems.
   4.2. The Superintendent obtains the consent of the Academy Board before:
       4.2.1. Approving any changes in course offerings, required courses, academic majors, or
       graduation requirements.
       4.2.2. Granting any cadet the degree of Bachelor of Science.
   4.3. The Superintendent may obtain the advice of the Academy Board on all involuntary
   disenrollments and turnbacks of cadets or any other matter deemed appropriate.
5. Secretary of the Academy Board:
   5.1. Processes all matters for the Academy Board action and makes recommendations to the
   HQ USAFA/CC or designated representative on the appropriateness and priority of each
   item.
 4                                                                USAFAI36-3540 2 MAY 2012


     5.2. Prepares the Academy Board agenda and meeting materials, and maintains the Academy
     Board calendar. All matters submitted to the Academy Board are included on the agenda.
     The agenda (with supporting documents, if necessary) will normally be made available to the
     members three duty days prior to the meeting of the Academy Board.
     5.3. Maintains Academy Board files.
     5.4. Monitors the implementation of the Academy Board action items.
     5.5. Distributes to the Academy Board members any reports, evaluations, or instructions
     from advisory activities or higher headquarters concerning educational and training matters.
6. Standing Committees of the Academy Board:
     6.1. Curriculum Committee. Reviews and recommends curricular changes to the Academy
     Board. USAFAI 36-3507, Curriculum Handbook and Curriculum Change Control, specifies
     committee membership, duties, and procedures.
     6.2. Scheduling Committee. Coordinates and schedules all cadet time during the academic
     year (fall and spring academic semesters: transition week for the fall semester through
     graduation day for the spring semester). The scheduling committee coordinates all annual
     and academic semester schedules presented to the Academy Board for approval, including
     semester calendars and the Air Force Academy Cadet Wing Schedule of Calls. Following
     Academy Board approval, the Office of the Registrar (HQ USAFA/DFR) publishes the
     semester calendars and the Schedule of Calls.
     6.3. Air Force Academy Athletic Association Advisory Council (AFAAAAC). Ensures the
     proper management of Athletic Association activities and resources to provide the most
     efficient operations within the scope of existing Air Force instructions. This is accomplished
     by observing the overall operation of the activity and making recommendations to all levels
     of management. See Table 2. for Council membership:

Table 2. AFAAAAC Members.
Faculty Athletic Representative                                           Chair
Vice Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CV)                                         Vice Chair
Director of Athletics (USAFA/AD)                                          Member
Vice Commandant (USAFA/CWV)                                               Member
Vice Commander, 10th Air Base Wing (10 ABW/CV)                            Member
Director of Admissions (HQ USAFA/RR)                                      Member
Permanent Professor and Head, Department of Law (HQ USAFA/DFL)            Member
Director, Financial Management and Comptroller (HQ USAFA/FM)              Member
Director, 10th Force Support Squadron (10 FSS/CL)                         Member
Associate Athletic Director for Finance (USAFA/ADF)                       Recorder without vote
Note: Other representatives such as Staff Judge Advocate (HQ USAFA/JA), Vice Athletic Director
(USAFA/ADV), President & CEO of the Association of Graduates, Nonappropriated Fund Financial
Advisor (HQ USAFA/FMN), and Nonappropriated Fund Accounting Advisor (10 FSS/FSR) are invited
to attend meetings to advise the Board on matters within their expertise.
        6.3.1. AFAAAAC Procedures. To convene at least quarterly or in special meetings
        called by the chair. The council resolves questions by a majority vote and forwards its
        recommendations to HQ USAFA/CC or designated representative for approval.
USAFAI36-3540 2 MAY 2012                                                                     5


  6.4. Academic Review Committees (ARC). One ARC for each of the four cadet classes
  evaluates cadets deficient in academic performance and forwards recommendations to
  HQ USAFA/CC or designated representative. USAFAI 36-3523, Review and Disposition of
  Deficient Cadets, specifies committee membership, duties, and procedures.
  Recommendations to disenroll cadets will be processed in accordance with AFI 36-2020,
  Disenrollment of United States Air Force Academy Cadets.
  6.5. Physical Education Review Committee (PERC). The PERC evaluates cadets deficient
  in athletic performance and forwards recommendations to HQ USAFA/CC or designated
  representative. USAFAI 36-3523 specifies committee membership, duties, and procedures.
  Recommendations to disenroll cadets will be processed in accordance with AFI 36-2020.
  6.6. Eligibility Committees. One Eligibility Committee for each cadet intercollegiate
  athletic team determines eligibility standards and whether cadets meet standards for that
  activity. The committees meet at the call of their respective chairpersons, and decisions are
  by majority vote. USAFAI 36-3523 specifies committee membership, duties, and
  procedures.
  6.7. Military Review Committee (MRC). The MRC evaluates cadets deficient in military
  performance, specifically conduct and aptitude, and forwards recommendations to
  HQ USAFA/CC or designated representative concerning their fitness for commissioning.
  USAFAI 36-3523 specifies committee membership, duties, and procedures.
  Recommendations to disenroll cadets will be processed in accordance with AFI 36-2020.
  6.8. Summer Training Review Committee (STRC). The STRC evaluates cadets deficient in
  pass/fail summer training programs. USAFAI 36-3523 outlines committee membership,
  duties, and procedures. Recommendations to disenroll cadets will be processed in
  accordance with the provisions of AFI 36-2020.




                                          MICHAEL C. GOULD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          Superintendent
 6                                                               USAFAI36-3540 2 MAY 2012


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2020, Disenrollment of United States Air Force Academy Cadets
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy
Title 10, U.S.C., Chapter 903, United States Air Force Academy
Title 10 U.S.C. Section 9343, Cadets: Appointment; to Bring to Full Strength
Title 10 U.S.C. Section 9351, Cadets: Deficiencies in Conduct or Studies; Effect of Failure on
Successor
USAFAI 36-3507, Curriculum Handbook and Curriculum Change Control
USAFAI 36-3523, Review and Disposition of Deficient Cadets
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFAAAAC—Air Force Academy Athletic Association Advisory Council
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
ARC—Academic Review Committee
HQ—Headquarters
MRC—Military Review Committee
PERC—Physical Education Review Committee
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
STRC—Summer Training Review Committee
U.S.C.—United States Code
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
