BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3534

                                                                             30 MARCH 2012
                                                           Incorporating Change 1, 13 July 2012

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                 VIOLATIONS OF ACADEMIC STANDARDS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/DFS                                                         Certified by: USAFA/DFV
                                                                          (Col Richard Fullerton)
Supersedes:    USAFAI36-157,                                                            Pages: 3
               6 September 2007


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, and provides guidance for determining academic penalties for violations of academic
standards. This instruction applies to all United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) personnel
involved with cadet or cadet candidate graded work. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed
of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records             Disposition           Schedule            (RDS)            located          at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the term Academic Standards in Attachment 1. A margin bar (|)
indicates revisions from the previous edition.
1. Academic Penalties. Decision authorities will determine whether a cadet or cadet candidate
has violated academic standards. Academic penalties are imposed to protect the academic
integrity of the institution and the relative class standing of those who abide by academic
standards. For the purposes of this instruction, the decision authorities for cadet matters are the
 2                                                            USAFAI36-3534 30 MARCH 2012


Dean of Faculty (DF) academic department heads, the Dean of Academics and academic
department heads at the Preparatory School, and USAFA/ADP for Physical Education classes.
     1.1. Penalty Proportions. In general, the penalty shall be proportional to the severity of the
     violation. Penalties shall not be token, which might encourage contempt for academic
     standards. Ordinarily, the most severe academic penalty shall be a zero on the assignment;
     however, decision authorities may award a lesser penalty. Before assignments are collected,
     instructors are encouraged to remind cadets and cadet candidates to document all help
     received and provide an opportunity to correct or modify missing or vague documentation
     statements without significant academic penalty, subject to decision authority guidance.
     1.2. Severe Penalties. If decision authorities believe that circumstances warrant a more
     severe penalty than zero on the assignment, they will recommend a penalty for approval by
     the appropriate mission partner lead. More severe academic penalties may include removal
     from the course and awarding a course grade of “F.”
2. Standard of Proof. The decision authority's determination that an individual violated
academic standards must be based on a preponderance of credible evidence. Proof beyond a
reasonable doubt is not required.
3. Procedures for Determining Academic Penalties for Academic Standards Violations.
     3.1. Initial Notification. When it appears a cadet or a cadet candidate has violated
     academic standards, the decision authority will carefully review all the relevant evidence.
     The individual will be notified of the allegation by the decision authority in writing and given
     an opportunity to respond to it. If academic standards have been violated, the Air Officer
     Commanding (AOC) should be informed and the matter will be referred to the Cadet Honor
     System or Cadet Candidate Honor System as appropriate.
     3.2. Determination. After thoroughly reviewing all the relevant evidence (including the
     individual’s response to the allegation, if any), the decision authority will, in a timely
     manner, determine (independently of any possible associated honor proceedings) if there was
     a violation of academic standards in accordance with paragraph 1. The individual will be
     notified by the decision authority in writing of this decision and the reasons. If the mission
     partner lead imposes a more severe academic penalty than zero on the assignment, the
     individual’s AOC and academic advisor will be notified promptly as well.
     3.3. Assignment of Course Grade of "F' or Removal From Course. If a course grade of
     “F” is awarded or a cadet is removed from the course, the decision authority will notify, in
     writing, the individual, AOC, academic advisor, and Office of the Registrar (USAFA/DFR).
     If the cadet is an intercollegiate athlete, USAFA/AD should also be notified. For cadet
     candidates, the Preparatory School decision authority will coordinate grade changes and
     make any appropriate notifications.




                                               DANA H. BORN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                               Dean of the Faculty
USAFAI36-3534 30 MARCH 2012                                                                    3


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 25 May 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
DoD—Department of Defense
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy

Terms
Academic Standards—USAFA academic standards require cadets and cadet candidates to
accomplish their own academic work within the specific guidance provided for each assignment.
Specific assignments will authorize cadets to work individually or with others and to use
published or unpublished materials. The fundamental principle is that cadets will always give
credit for work that is not their own through appropriate documentation of the ideas and words of
other individuals and sources, even when the source is not authorized.
Decision Authority—DF academic department heads and the Dean of Academics and academic
department heads of the Preparatory School. USAFA/ADP is the decision authority for Physical
Education classes.
Mission Partner Lead—Dean of the Faculty; Commandant of Cadets; Director of Athletics; or
Commander, Preparatory School (or officers they designate).
Violation of Academic Standards—Conduct incompatible with academic integrity or
institutional values (e.g., submission of work for credit that is not the cadet's own, whether
intentional or not).
