BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES ACADEMY
SUPERINTENDENT                                                      INSTRUCTION 84-101

                                                                          20 NOVEMBER 2014

                                                                                         History

                                                      MAINTAINING THE USAF ACADEMY
                                                                HISTORICAL PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/HO                                                          Certified by: USAFA/HO
                                                                             (Dr. E.A. Muenger)
Supersedes:   USAFAI84-101,                                                            Pages: 19
              20 October 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 84-1, Historical Information,
Property, and Art, 16 September 2005, and augments Air Force Instruction (AFI) 84-101,
Historical Products, Services, and Requirements, 30 July 2009. This publication prescribes
procedures for incorporating current Vice Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CV) written annual
Tasker guidance, simplifying and clarifying the existing process for creating the annual history,
as well as streamlining and explaining responsibilities, deliverables, deadlines, and the purpose
of the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) Historical Program. It provides clear, better-
defined narrative examples and guidance for Mission Elements and their subordinate units as
well as what they must do to maintain the USAF Academy Historical Program. This instruction
applies to all USAFA Mission Elements. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The authorities to waive requirements in this
publication are identified with a Tier 3 number following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-
360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of the authorities associated with
the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain of command to the appropriate
Tier waiver approval authority. The waiver authority for non-tiered requirements in this
publication is the Command Historian (HQ USAFA/HO). Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).
 2                                                                           USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

Chapter 1—RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                           3
       1.1.   Commanders, Directors, and Department Heads. ..................................................                        3
       1.2.   The Command Historian: .......................................................................................         3
       1.3.   Each USAF Academy Mission Partner/Element, Establishment (Wing/Group),
              Staff Activity, or Assigned Unit: ...........................................................................          4
       1.4.   Unit History Representatives for each Mission Element, Establishment
              (Wing/Group), Staff Activity, or Assigned Unit will: ...........................................                       4
       1.5.   Unit History Representatives for each next lower echelon organization (i.e.
              Group, Branch, as applicable) will: .......................................................................            5
       1.6.   Unit History Representatives for each squadron or department will: ....................                                5
       1.7.   Unit History Representatives (All Levels) will: ....................................................                   5
       1.8.   The Command Historian, the Head of the Department of History, and/or the
              Director of the Library: ..........................................................................................    6
       1.9.   Other Academy Personnel and Outside Researchers: ............................................                          6

Chapter 2—THE ACADEMY’S OFFICIAL HISTORY AND THE ANNUAL HISTORY
            REPORT                                                                                                                   7
       2.1.   Purpose of the Official History of the Air Force Academy. ..................................                           7
       2.2.   Preserving the History. ..........................................................................................     7

Chapter 3—WRITING THE ANNUAL HISTORY REPORT                                                                                          9
       3.1.   The Annual History Report. ...................................................................................         9

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                      13

Attachment 2—ORGANIZATION OF THE ANNUAL HISTORY REPORT                                                                              14

Attachment 3—SAMPLE COMMANDER’S APPROVAL LETTER                                                                                     15

Attachment 4—SAMPLE NARRATIVE DF                                                                                                    16

Attachment 5—SAMPLE NARRATIVE CW                                                                                                    17

Attachment 6—SAMPLE ORGANIZATIONAL CHART                                                                                            18

Attachment 7—PHOTOS EXAMPLE                                                                                                         19
USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                   3



                                           Chapter 1

                                    RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Commanders, Directors, and Department Heads.
   1.1.1. Per Air Force Instruction (AFI) 84-101, Historical Products, Services, and
   Requirements, Commanders [Directors, Department Heads] will give historians access to all
   information required to prepare accurate, objective, and comprehensive historical
   publications and records. This includes access to archived email files, organizational shared
   drives, restricted-access web sites, and other sources of information. See AFI 84-101,
   Historical Products, Services, and Requirements, para 1.4.1.1.
   1.1.2. Sign the unit’s Annual History Report approval letter. See Attachment 3 for a sample
   Commander’s Approval Letter.
1.2. The Command Historian:
   1.2.1. Supervises all non-academic historical activity at the USAF Academy.
   1.2.2. Prepares monographs and special studies directed or approved by the Office of Air
   Force History, HQ USAF (HQ USAF/HO).
      1.2.2.1. Conducts interviews of Academy Leadership and decision-makers, as per AFI
      84-101, Historical Products, Services, and Requirements, para 2.5.
   1.2.3. Prepares an annual Official History of the USAF Academy and maintains a printed
   library of yearly copies.
   1.2.4. Collects all historical data on all activities of Mission Elements as well as Staff
   Activities and Leadership within the USAF Academy. Examines all their documents, except
   those documents which are privileged or those containing privileged information.
   Documents include memoranda, internal and external correspondence, electronic messages
   (emails), USAF Academy directives, special orders, staff studies, minutes and reports of
   board and committee meetings, staff instructions, and policy files. Collects historical data on
   challenging issues faced by Academy decision-makers and the results of corrective action.
   Analyzes historical data and briefs Academy Leadership on its relevance, as required.
   1.2.5. Maintains a program to improve and encourage managers to use historical data as a
   tool to better accomplish their duties.
   1.2.6. Attends meetings, official boards, committees, and councils to help gain a more
   complete understanding and knowledge of USAF Academy developments. Supports the
   Academic mission of the USAF Academy by providing adjunct faculty to the Dean of
   Faculty, as able.
   1.2.7. Coordinates on all matters of Lineage and Honors and Heraldry at the USAF
   Academy.
   1.2.8. Arranges with the Head, Department of History, to use members of the Department of
   History (USAFA/DFH) to support USAF Academy historical projects.
 4                                                      USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014


     1.2.9. Delegates duties and responsibilities to the Deputy Command Historian or members of
     the Academy History Office, as required.
1.3. Each USAF Academy Mission Partner/Element, Establishment (Wing/Group), Staff
Activity, or Assigned Unit:
     1.3.1. Must appoint Unit History Representative (UHR) additional duty positions that should
     be at least a field grade officer or civilian equivalent from the command level down to the
     squadron/department level who:
        1.3.1.1. Accomplishes the unit Annual History Report, covering the Academic Year,
        which is the period 1 Jul-30 Jun, as soon as possible after the end of each academic year.
        1.3.1.2. Sends to the Command Historian (HQ USAFA/HO) a clear, concise Annual
        History Report, no later than 31 August, signed by the unit commander, director, vice
        commander, or deputy. See Attachment 3 for an example of the Commander’s Approval
        Letter.
            1.3.1.2.1. Submits two paper copies of the Annual History Report and supporting
            documents, as well as one electronic copy of the report and supporting documents, to
            the Command Historian (HQ USAFA/HO). Submit the electronic copy on a
            DVD/CD.
1.4. Unit History Representatives for each Mission Element, Establishment (Wing/Group),
Staff Activity, or Assigned Unit will:
     1.4.1. Accomplish the unit Annual History Report, covering the Academic Year, which is
     the period 1 Jul-30 Jun, as soon as possible after the end of each academic year.
     1.4.2. Collect, edit, and consolidate the Annual History Reports for each subordinate unit
     within the organization.
        1.4.2.1. Ensure Annual History Reports for each subordinate unit in the organization
        meet both the requirements and deliverables per AFI84-101 Historical Products,
        Services, and Requirements, and this instruction, as well as the needs of the unit’s
        commander or director.
        1.4.2.2. Ensure all lower echelons (i.e. Group, Branch, etc.) include subordinate
        squadron or department Annual History Reports.
        1.4.2.3. Ensure all squadron or departmental Annual History Reports cover each flight,
        office, branch, or division.
     1.4.3. Send to the Command Historian (HQ USAFA/HO) a clear, concise composite annual
     historical report for the organization, no later than 31 August.
        1.4.3.1. Submits two paper copies of the Annual History Report and supporting
        documents, as well as one electronic copy of the report and supporting documents, to the
        Command Historian (HQ USAFA/HO). Submit the electronic copy on a DVD/CD.
     1.4.4. Sends the organization’s "read file" to the Command Historian (HQ USAFA/HO)
     when the activity must no longer retain it.
     1.4.5. Sends to the Command Historian (HQ USAFA/HO) copies of documents or other
     important materials relating to how the unit:
USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                  5


       1.4.5.1. Formulated and executed policies, operations, and training procedures.
       1.4.5.2. Organized its administration, functions, and mission.
       1.4.5.3. These read files and documents may be submitted as Supporting Documents to
       the Annual History Report. See Chapter 3, below.
1.5. Unit History Representatives for each next lower echelon organization (i.e. Group,
Branch, as applicable) will:
   1.5.1. Accomplish the unit Annual History Report, covering the Academic Year, which is
   the period 1 Jul-30 Jun, as soon as possible after the end of each academic year.
   1.5.2. Collect, edit, and consolidate the Annual History Reports for each subordinate unit
   within their echelon.
   1.5.3. Ensure all squadron or departmental Annual History Reports cover each flight, office,
   branch, or division.
   1.5.4. Ensure Annual History Reports for each subordinate unit in the organization meet
   both the requirements and deliverables per AFI84-101 Historical Products, Services, and
   Requirements and this instruction, as well as the needs of the unit’s commander or director.
   1.5.5. Send to the Unit History Representatives for each Mission Partner/Element,
   Establishment (Wing/Group), Staff Activity, or Assigned Unit a clear, concise composite
   annual historical report for the echelon, no later than a date specified by the commander or
   designated UHR.
1.6. Unit History Representatives for each squadron or department will:
   1.6.1. Accomplish the unit annual history report, covering the Academic Year, which is the
   period 1 Jul-30 Jun, as soon as possible after the end of each academic year.
   1.6.2. Collect, edit, and consolidate the Annual History Reports for each flight, office,
   branch, or division within the squadron or department.
   1.6.3. Send to the Unit History Representatives for the next higher echelon a clear, concise
   composite annual historical report for the echelon, no later than a date specified by the
   commander or designated UHR.
1.7. Unit History Representatives (All Levels) will:
   1.7.1. Produce substantive Annual History Report, which is the foundation of the Academy’s
   Historical Program. Timely and accurate submission of these reports is the UHR’s primary
   responsibility.
   1.7.2. Maintain a continuity book or SharePoint site or other file that holds organization
   documents and references, including a complete file of the organization’s Annual History
   Reports.
   1.7.3. Meet the historical needs of the unit’s commander/director and staff. Act as historical
   liaison between the unit and the Command Historian (HQ USAFA/HO).
 6                                                       USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014


1.8. The Command Historian, the Head of the Department of History, and/or the Director
of the Library:
     1.8.1. These individuals shall be authorized to occasionally acquire rare or unique books,
     manuscripts, and similar items that document Academy history or enhance Library
     collections, utilizing gift funds or appropriated funds. Such items further the Air Force
     Academy outcome of grounding cadets in knowledge of the profession of arms and the
     human and physical worlds, with particular respect for the heritage and application of air and
     space power, and knowledge of civic, cultural, and international environments.
     1.8.2. These individuals shall be authorized to debrief key personnel, such as the
     Superintendent, Vice Superintendent, Director of Staff, Commandant of Cadets, Dean of
     Faculty, Director of Athletics, Preparatory School Commander, 10th Air Base Wing
     Commander, or Staff Directorate Heads, before they leave the Academy. Coordinate
     debriefs with HQ USAFA/HO.
1.9. Other Academy Personnel and Outside Researchers:
     1.9.1. Writers of scholarly monographs or other researchers using the Official History of the
     USAF Academy or USAF Academy records must clear their manuscripts with
     HQ USAFA/HO and the Directorate of Public Affairs (USAFA/PA) by submitting a copy of
     their draft manuscript for coordination to USAFA/PA and USAFA/HO.
USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                   7


                                           Chapter 2

  THE ACADEMY’S OFFICIAL HISTORY AND THE ANNUAL HISTORY REPORT

2.1. Purpose of the Official History of the Air Force Academy. The annual history of the
USAF Academy provides objective, accurate, descriptive, and interpretive records of each
Academic Year at the Academy. The Official History of the USAF Academy enables Academy
leadership to approach current problems and concerns more intelligently and professionally.
Evaluation of past experience is of great value to commanders, planners, and other decision-
makers when determining current policies and preparing for current and future contingencies.
Knowledge of history is a significant factor in determining the success or failure of a particular
policy, plan, or decision. Accurate and timely historical reporting provides Academy leadership
the information they can use to improve the institution and make sound decisions.
   2.1.1. Products. The primary product of the Unit History Representative (UHR) is the
   Annual History Report for the Academic Year. The Command Historian will collect each
   Academic Year’s Annual History Reports from all Mission Elements, Establishments
   (Wings/Groups), Staff Activities, or Assigned Units to produce the Official History of the Air
   Force Academy. UHRs will also collect various types of publications, papers, memos,
   emails, and other supporting documents that enhance the content of the Annual History
   Report. These products:
       2.1.1.1. Highlight the organization's mission, goals, accomplishments, challenging
       issues, lessons learned, and plans for the future. Supplement with charts, tables, and
       appendices as necessary.
       2.1.1.2. Preserve the official record of the organization’s operations for the Academic
       Year.
       2.1.1.3. Make information and decision processes available to Academy leadership and
       future Academy leadership.
       2.1.1.4. Provide reference material for researchers.
       2.1.1.5. The Official History of the USAF Academy is FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY. Do
       not send classified information to HQ USAFA/HO.
2.2. Preserving the History. The Annual History Report for the Academic Year represents the
official USAF Academy effort to preserve information in a complete and systematic manner for
future decision-making, research and reference. These reports consist of a narrative account of
significant events supported by a collection of original source documents. Annual History
Reports serve as the institutional memory of Academy organizations.
   2.2.1. Each organization will appoint a UHR from the command level to the
   squadron/department level who will prepare the Annual History Report according to
   instructions in Chapter 3.
   2.2.2. Submission Cycle. The standard submission cycle for Annual History Reports is 12-
   months. Academy organizations will use an Academic Year cycle, which is from 1 July
   through 30 June.
8                                                  USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014


    2.2.2.1. The Annual History Report must be submitted for signature by the commander,
    director, or department head, vice commander, or deputy prior to submission. The report
    is considered complete when signed. The completed Annual History Report must be sent
    to the Command Historian (HQ USAFA/HO) no later than 31 August. An example of a
    commander’s approval letter can be found in Attachment 3. An executive summary at
    the beginning of the Annual History Report signed by the commander will also suffice
    for a signed letter. See para 3.1.1.2.
    2.2.2.2. Requests for Extension. Requests for extension must be dated no later than 30
    days from the original due date and must be signed by the organization commander,
    director, department head, vice commander, or deputy.
       2.2.2.2.1. Requests for Extension may be approved by the Command Historian or
       designated representative. Extensions longer than 30 days must be requested by the
       organization’s commander or director and must be approved by the Command
       Historian.
USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                      9


                                            Chapter 3

                      WRITING THE ANNUAL HISTORY REPORT

3.1. The Annual History Report.
   3.1.1. The Annual History Report comprises two required sections: the Narrative and
   Supporting Documents. Commanders, directors, and the Dean have the option of requiring
   that their organizational Annual History Report begin with an Executive Summary. For the
   structure of the Annual History Report, see Attachment 2.
       3.1.2. Executive Summary (Optional). A brief overview by the commander, director, or
       department head of the organization’s major events, topics, and strategic goals covered in
       the Annual History Report, including the significance of each to the organization and the
       perspective or conclusions of the commander/director/department head.
   3.1.3. Narrative (Required). As the major component of an Annual History Report, the
   Narrative relates important events and developments affecting the organization. It should be
   concisely written and organized by topic or issues, not by the unit organizational structure. A
   high quality or useful Annual History Report does not require a long narrative. Select topics
   or issues of importance or long-term interest to current and future leadership. Treat each
   issue or topic according to its importance, especially its effect on the organization’s ability to
   accomplish its mission. Provide sufficient detail or data to clearly and accurately explain the
   issue or topic. It is not necessary to include every detail in the Narrative. Preserve detailed
   information on the issue or topic in the Supporting Documents section of the Annual History
   Report (see para 3.1.3), and include a reference or footnote to the specific document in the
   Narrative. Since detailed data on many topics or issues, especially those dealing with
   decision-making, resources, or support, could be needed by future commanders for decision-
   making, reference, or research, be sure to preserve all relevant documents and emails. It is
   important that topics or issues that were left open at the close of the previous Annual History
   Report are continued in the current report to provide future commanders and researchers a
   comprehensive record of events and issues.
       3.1.3.1. Topics or issues to consider for the Narrative should include (but are not limited
       to): organizational leadership (officer, enlisted, civilian); mission; achievements; goals;
       challenging issues; budget; planning; communications and information technology (IT);
       environment; facilities; community relations; flying hour program; personnel assigned to
       the unit (by rank and name); personnel gains, losses, and deployments; academic
       specialties (American History, East Africanist, 20th Century British Literature, Nuclear
       Physics, Distinguished Visiting Professor, etc.); military functional specialties of
       personnel (Pilot, Navigator, Missileer, Intelligence, Special Forces, Naval Aviator, etc.);
       students majoring in the discipline; research projects; conferences; support of the
       operational Air Force; court martial results/convictions; awards; etc.
       3.1.3.2. The Narrative will be written in Microsoft Word, using Times New Roman 12
       Font, single-spaced, with one inch margins, left justification, block paragraphs, no
       indentation.
Bullet format is not authorized in the Narrative. See Attachments 4 and 5 for examples.
10                                                      USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014


     3.1.3.3. The Narrative must be original writing and not copied from source documents or
     “boilerplate” copied from previous histories. It is not just a summary of dates, places,
     personnel, and statistics, nor is it an outline. Cover topics significant to the organization
     by addressing the “who, what, when, where, (and especially) the why and how.” Do not
     convert the Word document to pdf format.
     3.1.3.4. Write in simple, direct, and grammatically correct language, striving to use past
     tense and avoiding military jargon, clichés, and words not commonly known outside of
     the organization. Spell out acronyms, abbreviations, and unit designations in the
     Narrative and include acronyms and abbreviations in the glossary in the
     attachments/appendices. Define or explain scientific or technical terms. Avoid using
     office symbols repeatedly in the Narrative because they tend to change over time. Use
     spell check. See Attachment 1 for examples.
     3.1.3.5. Provide complete dates using military style, that is, day, month, and year. For
     example, 30 April 2010. Use the military 24-hour clock and local time if it is necessary
     to refer to time. For example, 2130L.
     3.1.3.6. Spell out the full given name (first name, middle initial, and surname) when first
     mentioning a person in the Narrative and in the roster of key personnel. Abbreviate
     military titles only when followed by initials or given names. For example, Col Jane Q.
     Smith. In later references, omit the qualifying part of the military title, spell out the rank,
     and use only the last name. For example, Colonel Smith. Use full title of civilian office
     holders in the text. For example, Director of the McDermott Library, Dr. Edward A.
     Scott. Do not substitute pay grades (civilian or military) for position titles.
     3.1.3.7. The Official History of the USAF Academy is FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY. Do
     not include classified information in the Narrative of the Annual History Report.
  3.1.4. Supporting Documents (Required). The Supporting Documents provide additional
  clarification and detail of the topics and issues contained in the Narrative, since often these
  documents are the working copies the organization’s decision-makers use to establish or
  execute policy, operations, or training procedures. Supporting documents are categorized as
  primary or secondary sources. Primary sources are the original documents, or first records of
  the facts or events. Examples of these documents are memoranda, internal and external
  correspondence, electronic messages (emails), USAF Academy directives, special orders
  (especially G-series orders), staff studies, minutes and reports of board and committee
  meetings, staff instructions, policy files, after-action reports, and trip reports. Secondary
  sources are other writers’ interpretations, analyses, or discussions of primary sources, and
  include magazine articles, books, or newspaper articles.
     3.1.4.1. The Official History of the USAF Academy is FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY. Do
     not include classified documents in the Supporting Documents section.
     3.1.4.2. UHRs may use either Microsoft Word or pdf format for the Supporting
     Documents. If using Word, format with Times New Roman 12 Font, single-spaced, with
     one inch margins, left justification, block paragraphs, no indentation. Bullet format is
     authorized in Supporting Documents.
     3.1.4.3. Documentary Sources:
USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014                                                               11


       3.1.4.3.1. Orders. Military headquarters direct and authenticate changes, actions, and
       procedures through various types of orders. These include G-Series orders,
       movement, alert, warning, deployment, execution, tasking, operations, technical, and
       special orders. The Command Historian uses G-Series orders to authenticate that an
       individual is indeed the commander of an organization, and sends a copy of those G-
       Series orders to the Air Force Historical Research Agency (AFHRA) at Maxwell
       AFB, Alabama. AFHRA records the information and adds the commander’s name to
       the organization’s Lineage and Honors record. Without the G-Series order, AFHRA
       considers the commander “unknown.” UHRs WILL include all unclassified special
       orders, especially G-Series orders, in the organization’s Annual History Report.
          3.1.4.3.1.1. Organizations should forward G-Series orders to the Command
          Historian immediately upon receipt in order to expedite the organization’s
          Lineage and Honors record at AFHRA.
       3.1.4.3.2. Publications.   Policy and mission directives (AFPD and AFMD),
       instructions (AFI), doctrine documents (AFDD), and in particular, organizational
       supplements affecting the structure and mission of the organization. At the USAF
       Academy, changes or updates to organizational supplements affecting the structure
       and mission of the organization are included in the Annual History Report.
       3.1.4.3.3. Correspondence. Correspondence includes important letters, memoranda,
       messages, email, and comparable communications on topics or issues relevant to the
       organization or between organizations. Per AFI 84-101, Historical Products,
       Services, and Requirements, para 3.3.1.3., historians require access to archived email
       files, organizational shared drives, restricted-access web sites, and other sources of
       information. UHRs collecting and submitting these types of supporting documents
       from these sources in the organization’s Annual History Report meet the intent of the
       AFI requirement.
       3.1.4.3.4. Statistical Tables and Graphics. Include organizational charts, significant
       maps, manning documents, tables, diagrams, relevant illustrations, and timelines to
       add clarity, interest, or conciseness to your unit’s Annual History Report. Caption all
       graphics with dates, subjects, and names.               Include biographies of unit
       commander/director          and      Noncommissioned         Officer    In     Charge
       (NCOIC)/superintendent (if available), organizational charts (see Attachment 6), and
       manning documents. These are indispensable components of Annual History
       Reports.
       3.1.4.3.5. Reports and studies. Reports and staff studies analyze issues and establish
       the central concern of the issue and related facts, as well as various options and
       recommendations. Therefore, reports and staff studies are of special interest to both
       commanders and historians because they often precede and form the basis for
       significant decisions. Include reports and staff studies, as well as PowerPoint briefing
       slides, graphics, tables, staff comments, notations, and related emails in the
       Supporting Documents section.
       3.1.4.3.6. Meetings and minutes of the meetings are also important for both
       commanders and historians, since they too form the basis for significant decisions.
       Include PowerPoint slides and meeting minutes in the Supporting Documents.
12                                                USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014


     Consider inviting the Command Historian to important planning sessions or policy-
     making meetings.
     3.1.4.3.7. Photographs. Use only photographs of historical value. Do not embed
     them in the Narrative. Save them as a supporting document in either PowerPoint or
     pdf format. Caption all photographs with dates and clarifying data. Fully identify the
     subject by listing the “who, what, when, and where” of the photograph. Identify the
     photographer, if known. Use high-resolution digital images (at least 600 dots per
     inch) when possible to assure clarity. Use no more than two photographs per 8.5 x 11
     inch page. See Attachment 7 for an example.
     3.1.4.3.8. Accident information. Recording information on accidents and mishaps is
     governed by AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, AFI 51-503, Aerospace
     Accident Investigations, and AFI 84-101, Historical Products, Services, and
     Requirements. When covering accidents or mishaps, only provide information
     released by the Air Force in the public domain, or areas for improvement in policy or
     procedures that the unit adopted, up to the level of FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY.
     Never mention any formal findings, conclusions, causes, or recommendations. Do
     not cite or include mishap messages or safety investigation board reports in the
     Narrative or the Supporting Documents. Contact the Academy Chief of Safety (HQ
     USAFA/SE) or the Command Historian with questions.
     3.1.4.3.9. Appendices. An appendix must be able to stand as an independent
     document when extracted from the history. List all sources used for its data.
     Appropriate items for appendices include charts, tables, graphs, statistical summaries,
     and compilations of data. Identify each appendix by a capital letter. For example,
     Appendix A.




                                       GAIL BENJAMIN COLVIN, GS-15, DAF
                                       Director of Staff
USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014                                                     13


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 51-503, Aerospace Accident Investigations, 26 May 2010
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 12 February 2014
AFI 84-101, Historical Products, Services, and Requirements,      30 July 2009.
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 84-1, Historical Information, Property, and Art, 16 September 2005
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
HO—History Office
HQ USAFA/HO—Office of the Command Historian, USAF Academy
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer In Charge
UHR—Unit History Representative
 14                                                    USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 2
               ORGANIZATION OF THE ANNUAL HISTORY REPORT

Part One—Narrative

1. Executive Summary (Optional)
2. Narrative

Part Two—Supporting Documents

1. Leadership Biographies
2. Organizational Chart
3. Internal/External Correspondence and Key Memoranda
4. Important Electronic Messages (email)
5. Staff Studies
6. Minutes and Reports
7. Slides or Slide Presentations
8. Staff Instructions
9. Policy, Subject, or Read Files
10. Brochures, Catalogs, Handouts, Guides, etc.
11. Miscellaneous documents
12. Policy and mission directives (AFPD and AFMD), Instructions (AFI), Organizational
    Supplements
13. Special Orders (especially G-Series orders)
        a. Change of Command
        b. Promotion/Award
        c. Deployment
14. Photographs with Captions (pdf format, see Chapter 3, above)

Part Three—Appendices (if applicable)

1. Abbreviations and Acronyms (Required)
2. Miscellaneous (optional)
USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014                                                        15


                                      Attachment 3
                   SAMPLE COMMANDER’S APPROVAL LETTER

                                    Official Letterhead


                                                                          30 August 20YY

MEMORANDUM FOR HQ USAFA/HO

FROM: (YOUR ORGANIZATION/CC)

SUBJECT: The 20XX-20YY Academic Year Historical Report

1. The 20XX-20YY annual history for (YOUR ORGANIZATION) is approved and attached.

2. Please contact (YOUR NAME), Unit History Representative, at (PHONE NUMBER) or
(EMAIL) if you have questions.




                           YOUR SIGNATURE BLOCK
                                        Unit History Representative




1st Ind, YOUR COMMANDER’S OFFICE SYMBOL

MEMORANDUM FOR USAFA/HO

Approved


                           SIGNATURE BLOCK

                           Unit Commander

Attachments:
1.    Two paper copies of annual history report
2. Two paper copies of supporting documents
3. One DVD/CD with electronic copy of history report and supporting documents
    16                                                   USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014


                                          Attachment 4
                                  SAMPLE NARRATIVE DF

The Major Core Course—The Road Ahead

One of the original hoped-for outcomes when the department merged the Theory and
Applications Divisions was being able to identify weaker students during the classroom portion
of the core course and matching them up with a stronger laboratory instructor (as of yet, this has
not happened). The one area that it highlighted was that instructors were able to better track how
the students did academically, which possibly prevented them from going on Academic
Probation as soon as in the past. But the communication between classroom and laboratory
instructors provided another benefit. Lieutenant Colonel Jones relayed that this technique
probably gives a little bit better picture of what kind of background and learning style a student
has, maybe more so than instructors would have had otherwise, because the course director, Capt
Leslie S. Smith, has better data on the student population.1 This was especially important for
new, first-time faculty who were mentored by Captain Smith and were able to translate this
information into better pedagogy and Extra Instruction (EI) sessions with weaker students.
Possibly with time, the system will provide enough information where the department can better
match students in the classroom phase with the appropriate laboratory instructor.2

It was also too early to see what long-term effects the merger will have on attrition. The overall
attrition rate fell approximately one percent, there being no academic eliminations since the
merger compared to three eliminations for the previous 15 classes. The number/ratio of learning
deficiencies and drop requests also remained about the same. In light of all this, no one deemed it
necessary to make any changes to the syllabus or the track select process. Captain Smith summed
up the whole purpose for the Phase I/II merger stating, “we have a vested interest in the students’
preparation and make the effort not to simply push them through the syllabus, but prepare them
for both classroom and laboratory.”3




1
  Course Director Talking Paper, Capt Leslie Smith, “Merging two divisions,” 28 March 2010.
2
  Email, Captain Smith to Col Jane Doe, “Follow up on merger,” 15 May 2010.
3
  Staff Study, Capt Smith, “Restructuring the Core Major for the Future,” 21 June 2010.
USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014                                                                  17


                                         Attachment 5
                                 SAMPLE NARRATIVE CW

Commandant of Cadets (CW)

This year saw many changes. The 34th Training Wing (34 TRW) officially became the Cadet
Wing (CW) once again on 31 August 2006. Brig Gen Susan Desjardins served her second year
as the first female Commandant of the Air Force Academy. Gen Desjardins commanded the
4,000-member cadet wing and more than 300 Air Force and civilian support personnel. Her
responsibilities included the direction of cadet military training and airmanship education,
supervision of cadet life activities, and providing support to facilities logistics.4

The Class of 2007 did a fantastic job of leading the cadet wing by developing a program that was
consistent with the Commandant’s guidance.

This was the third year for Commandant’s Challenge (in November) and Cadet Unit Compliance
Inspection, the two major training events of the year. Each program served to effectively assess
the skill, endurance, and leadership of each cadet. This year saw excellent refinement of the two
already successful programs. The fall training event continued to build on skills learned during
the Academic year and training received during Summer Programs. The spring event was a
culminating event that validates the cadets’ readiness for promotion to the next class level.5

As part of Operation Air Force, 100 cadets were deployed to Southwest Asia. They were sent to
the following locations, Qatar (Al Udied), Kuwait (Ali Al Salem) and UAE (Al Dhafra). A total
of 2,166 cadets participated in the program. They were sent to 74 bases in eight Air Force
Commands and visited the following countries: Turkey, England, Italy, Germany, Japan Guam,
Korea, Lajes (Portugal), and Spain.6

As with any organization, the push to continuously improve led to many changes within the
organization’s structure, especially with respect to personnel. Col David LaRivee was replaced
by Col Jeffrey Beene as Vice Commandant of Operations. Col Gail Colvin remained in the
position of Vice Commandant of Cadets for Climate and Culture. The Director of Staff position
held by Col Robert Huber was assumed by Lt Col Dave Lange when Col Huber took over as
Director of CW training. Lt Col Andrew Simmons and Maj William Winans took over the
Commandant’s Action Group when Maj Michael Clancy made a Permanent Change of Station
(PCS) move to Kadena AB, Japan. Maj Robert Ramos took over the position of Commander’s
Executive officer in July 2006.7


4
  CW Annual History Report Supporting Documents, 1 July 2006-30 June 2007. Unless
otherwise noted, this document was the source for the narrative.
5
  Director of Staff Talking Paper, Lt Col David Lange, “Commandant’s Challenge Results,” 1
December 2006; After Action Report (AAR), Col Robert Huber, “CW Major Training Events
Academic Year 2006-2007,” 12 June 2007.
6
  AAR, Col Jeffrey Beene, “Operation Air Force,” n.d. [No Date—editor]
7
  CW Roster of Key Personnel, 21 November 2006.
 18                                                USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014


                                    Attachment 6
                       SAMPLE ORGANIZATIONAL CHART

Figure A6.1. Sample Organizational Chart.




                NOTE: For best results, use black and white (no color)
USAFAI84-101 20 NOVEMBER 2014                  19


                                Attachment 7
                              PHOTOS EXAMPLE

Figure A7.1. Photo Example.
