BY ORDER OF THE                                      HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
SUPERINTENDENT                                                        INSTRUCTION 36-2807
                                                                                      7 MARCH 2005
                                                                   Certified Current on 29 March 2011
                                                                                            Personnel

                                                        COLONEL JAMES JABARA AIRMANSHIP
                                                                                 AWARD

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAFA/CMA (Mr. Steve Simon)                Certified by: HQ USAFA/CMA (Ms. Nancy Burns)
Supersedes USAFAI36-2807, 07 December 2001                                              Pages: 2
                                                                                 Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations Pro-
grams, and provides selection criteria and nomination procedures for the Colonel James Jabara Airman-
ship Award, honoring a United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) graduate’s significant contributions
to airmanship. This instruction applies to all USAFA agencies involved with the selection and presenta-
tion of the Jabara Airmanship Award. This instruction provides guidance for MAJCOMs interested in
nominating members of their organizations for the award. This publication applies to US Air Force
Reserve, Air National Guard, and Civil Air Patrol. Refer recommended changes and conflicts between
this and other publications to HQ USAFA/CMA, 2304 Cadet Drive, Suite 357, USAF Academy CO
80840-5002, on Air Force (AF) Information Management Tool (IMT) 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision changed Paragraph 6., presentation of the award from Founders’ Day at USAFA to coincide
with the Association of Graduates (AOG) Board of Directors’ Spring Meeting. The dates were updated in
paragraph 2. A bar (|) indicates revisions from the previous edition.


1. Jabara Award. The United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) in conjunction with the Jabara Fam-
ily and the USAFA AOG established the Colonel James Jabara Airmanship Award in January 1967. Each
year the award is presented by the Superintendent and AOG to an active duty USAFA graduate whose air-
manship contributions are of such significance as to set them apart from their contemporaries. Each
major command (MAJCOM), field operating agency (FOA)--to include National Guard and the Reserve,
and direct reporting unit (DRU) may submit one nomination for the award. Retired or separated gradu-
ates may be considered and should be nominated by corporate, civilian, government, or other organiza-
tions, as appropriate.
2                                                                     USAFAI36-2807 7 MARCH 2005


2. Award Timetable. Nominations are based on the accomplishments that occurred during the two years
before the year the award would be given (i.e., accomplishments occurring during the 2003 and 2004 cal-
endar years will be recognized by the award presented in 2005). Nominations must be submitted to
HQ USAFA/CMA, 2304 Cadet Drive, Suite 351, USAF Academy CO 80840-5002, not later than 1 Nov
of the second year for consideration in the current cycle.

3. Selection Criteria. Award selection is based on airmanship contributions that are of such significance
as to set the performer apart from their contemporaries. The definition of airmanship includes feats of air-
crew members, as well as exceptional contributions with respect to design, production, or testing of an
aerospace vehicle or its subsystems. Nominations will fall into one of the following categories:
    3.1. An individual heroic act.
    3.2. Sustained superior performance over a period of time. In this category, nominations may cover a
    broad spectrum ranging from crewmembers of an aerospace vehicle mission to an engineer or man-
    ager associated with the development of an aerospace vehicle.

4. Nomination Packages. Packages should be divided into four sections. Posthumous nominations
should have the words “POSTHUMOUS NOMINATION” centered on the top line of sections 2-4.
    4.1. Section 1. A cover letter from the nominating MAJCOM, FOA, DRU, or equivalent.
    4.2. Section 2. A page with administrative data to include name, rank, command and (or) organiza-
    tion, present position and (or) duty title, prior awards and decorations, telephone number, and duty
    mailing address of the nominee.
    4.3. Section 3. A one page, typed, bullet-style summary of narrative’s key points with nominee’s
    name and grade in the top left margin.
    4.4. Section 4. A three-page maximum, typed, narrative describing the nominee’s individual heroic
    act or sustained superior performance over a period of time with nominee’s name and grade in the top
    left margin.

5. Selection Process. HQ USAFA/CM will identify and chair a selection board that will recommend a
winner for the Superintendent’s approval. The Superintendent will announce the Jabara Airmanship
Award winner via message and public affairs release.

6. Award Recognition. The Jabara Airmanship Award will normally be presented annually to coincide
with the AOG Board of Directors’ Spring Meeting. The award winner and their organizational com-
mander and (or) representative will be invited to attend the award presentation. The winner will be intro-
duced to cadets at the noon meal and will be recognized at a dinner. The winner’s organization will be
responsible for travel costs. The winner of the Jabara Airmanship Award is authorized the wear of the Air
Force recognition ribbon.



                                                JOHNNY WHITAKER, GS-15, USAF
                                                Director of Academy Communications
