BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                      INSTRUCTION 23-104
EUROPE
                                                                                  31 MAY 2012

                                                                          Materiel Management

                                                 USAFE COMMAND DANGEROUS GOODS
                                                                      PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFE A4/7 (CDGA)                                         Certified by: HQ USAFE/A4R
                                                                     (Mr. Michael J. Topolosky)
Supersedes:   USAFEI 23-104,                                                         Pages: 106
              24 November 2008


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 23-1, Material Management.
This publication applies to all United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) personnel.
Specifically assigns responsibilities and prescribes policy and procedures for commanders and
dangerous goods advisors moving Department of Defense (DoD) dangerous goods (DG) and
Hazardous Waste (HW) in the European theater by road, rail, inland water ways, air, sea or
pipeline. Defines European requirements for monitoring the movement of dangerous goods by
road, rail, pipeline, inland water ways, sea or air. Identifies functions, duties, and associated
training requirements involved in movement activities of dangerous goods by all movement
modes. Explains monitoring responsibilities and possible sanctions by function based on the
mode regulations. Refers to the Accord Européen relatif au Transport International des
Marchandises dangereuses par Route (ADR) (European Agreement Concerning the International
Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road), the Règlement International concernant le Transport
des ferroviaire Marchandises dangereuses (RID) (European Regulation Concerning the
International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Rail), International Maritime Dangerous Goods
Code (IMDGC), Accord Européen relative au transport international des merchandises
dangereuses par voie de navigation Intérieures (ADN) (European Agreement Concerning the
International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Waterways), the International Air
Transportation Association Dangerous Goods Regulations (IATA-DGR), and to national
European implementation ordinances listed in Attachment 4 for these international agreements
and recommendations. It does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in
 2                                                                                              USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS):
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. In deviation to the AFMAN
33-363, specific reports and certificates described below must be maintained on file for 5 years
for review by Host Nation Surveillance Agencies. Supplementation: Installation Dangerous
Goods Advisors (DGA) appointed by their Installation Commander (USAFE) will supplement
this regulation based on country specific regulations and based on organizational structure.
Ensure that any local policy/guidance, publications, instructions or supplements are created in
accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, and
the USAFE supplement. All supplements to this regulation will be submitted to the USAFE
Directorate of Logistics, Installations and Mission Support, HQ USAFE A4/7, Command
Dangerous Goods Program Manager, for review and coordination prior to approval by the
Installation Commander.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The revised USAFE Command Dangerous Goods Program (CDGP) instruction includes
additional program requirements which were not identified previously. The CDGP Engineering
Office and the Unloader are described as new functions, the dangerous goods vehicle inspection
and registration program and the driver training program are added. For better understanding
adjustments were made to the functional duties to include the references of the mode regulations
associated with those duties. Additional attachments identify new requirements and tools that
USAFE units or visiting units must comply with, i.e. implementation of the European version of
the Globally Harmonized System (GHS), security provisions, various checklist requirements,
additional IDGA duties in support of the CDGP within their countries, and further details on
deployment planning involving hazardous material or hazardous waste.

Part 1—COMMANDER AND DANGEROUS GOODS ADVISOR DUTIES AND
          RESPONSIBILITIES                                                                                                                   4
       1.     General. ..................................................................................................................    4
       2.     USAFE Command Dangerous Goods Program Manager (CDGPM): ...................                                                     4
       3.     The Installation Commander will: .........................................................................                     9
       4.     The IDGA will: ......................................................................................................         12
       5.     Squadron Commanders. .........................................................................................                17
       6.     Unit Dangerous Goods Advisors (UDGA): ...........................................................                             19

Part 2—JOINT HAZARDOUS MATERIAL STEERING COMMITTEE, DUTIES OF
            PARTICIPANTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH EUROPEAN DANGEROUS
            GOODS REGULATIONS AND FORMS                                                                                                     22
       7.     Joint Hazardous Material Steering Committee (JHMSC). .....................................                                    22
       8.     Explanation of duties of participants by function. .................................................                          22
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                            3


Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION      36

Attachment 2—ACCIDENT REPORT                                        42

Attachment 3—DGA MONITORING REPORT                                  44

Attachment 4—DUTIES BY FUNCTION AND MODE                            45

Attachment 5—TRAINING REQUIREMENTS                                  65

Attachment 6—SECURITY PLAN REQUIREMENT                              75

Attachment 7—ADR VEHICLE AND TANK VEHICLE INSPECTION AND
             CERTIFICATION                                          76

Attachment 8—CLASSIFICATION, LABELING AND PACKAGING AND EUROPEAN
             HAZARD COMMUNICATION:                                  79

Attachment 9—DOCUMENTATION OF MONITORING ACTIVITIES                 85

Attachment 10—IDGA CDGP DUTIES                                      86

Attachment 11—DRIVER TRAINING PROGRAM DETAILS                       88

Attachment 12—LIST OF COUNTRIES                                    101

Attachment 13—HAZARDOUS WASTE PROFILE SHEET                        103
 4                                                                 USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012



                                               Part 1

           COMMANDER AND DANGEROUS GOODS ADVISOR DUTIES AND
                           RESPONSIBILITIES

1. General. This section specifies responsibilities and duties identified in US and European
laws and regulations applicable to US Forces in Europe. The ―Head of the Organization
Responsibility‖ for USAFE units includes all activities related to the safe and secure handling of
hazardous material (HM)/hazardous waste (HW) in conjunction with the movement process. For
the USAFE units the head of the organization is the USAFE Commander. The Command
Dangerous Goods Advisor (CDGA) executes the head of organization responsibility of the
USAFE Commander as described below. To further delegate responsibilities and duties three
levels are herewith identified and explained: responsible personnel, appointed personnel and
other responsible personnel.
     1.1. Responsible personnel: Are commanders of units who have duties related to planning,
     preparing, storing, moving, loading, un-loading, carrying, and receiving of HM/HW. The
     DG Program focus is on the head of the organization having overall responsibility. For
     USAFE units lowest level of ―responsible personnel‖ is the Squadron commander.
     Commanders are also appointed personnel.
     1.2. Appointed Personnel: In the sense of dangerous goods regulations ―Appointed
     Personnel‖ are personnel who on behalf of the Commander execute specific duties
     (responsible personnel duties). Because of their expertise these people execute these duties
     self-responsible under general supervision. These personnel require orders in writing which
     describe the scope of duties and authorities. ―Appointed Personnel‖ are for example
     Commanders, Dangerous Goods Advisors, Inspectors, Technical Specialists, and Certifiers.
     1.3. Other Responsible Personnel: In the sense of dangerous goods regulations ―Other
     Responsible Personnel‖ are personnel who execute duties prescribed by DG regulations, i.e.
     drivers, packers, loaders, receivers, etc. These personnel are supervised by functional experts
     and are self-responsible for executing their duties within the scope of the job or function
     description.
2. USAFE Command Dangerous Goods Program Manager (CDGPM): Under the
responsibility and appointment of the Directorate of Logistics, Installation and Mission Support
(HQ USAFE/A4/7) the USAFE CDGPM will manage the Command Dangerous Goods Program
(CDGP):
     2.1. Guidance: In close coordination with USAFE JAO and under consideration of the
     Status of Forces the CDGPM establishes guidance to USAFE organizations regarding the
     safe movement of Hazardous Material (HM) and Hazardous Waste (HW) identified by
     European dangerous goods regulations and agreements. Guidance includes on how to
     execute DoD and US regulations regarding movement of HM/HW when stationed or
     transiting the USAFE area of responsibility. Identification, marking, and labeling of
     hazardous material/waste regulated by European specific agreements for movement of
     HM/HW by road (ADR), rail (RID, or inland water ways (ADN) is based on the Globally
     Harmonized System (GHS). In the European Union (EU) the regulation for Classification,
     Packaging, and Labeling (CLP) is the applicable GHS version. See Attachment 12 for a list
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                       5


  of countries which apply the various agreements. Basis for integrating European agreements,
  laws and regulations into the CDGP are international treaties, i.e. status of forces agreements
  or bi-lateral agreements, DOD and US regulations. Duties and responsibilities identified in
  European regulations concerned with the safe movement of HM/HW applicable to USAFE
  units are identified in this instruction. The CDGPM will coordinate guidance with USAFE
  directorates impacted by the CDGP. Guidance and policy published by or coordinated by
  other USAFE directorates/functions overlapping with the CDGP will be coordinated with the
  CDGPM prior to approval. Specifically this relates to policy on HM/HW to prevent or
  minimize risk under the aspects of physical impact, fire and explosion, dermal or inhalation
  impact for people or animals, or bio-accumulative impact on the aquatic environment. This
  further relates to emergency response plans involving reaction to HM/HW spills during
  movement and to security plans for so called ―High Consequence Items‖ in accordance with
  European and DoD rules.
  2.2. Consulting: The CDGPM and assigned Command Dangerous Goods Advisors
  (CDGAs) provide consultation to the Commander, USAFE and Wing functions on plans and
  programs involving the movement of HM/HW within Europe. They provide guidance and
  assistance to Foreign Military Sales (FMS) and Military Assistance Program (MAP)
  managers and coordinate movement and security plans of U.S. Government supported FMS
  and MAP material consisting of HM when moving through USAFE installations. They
  provide expertise and guidance to program planners to ensure compliance with HM/HW
  movement regulations for programs related to installations and for programs related to units
  for international organic movements of Expeditionary Forces. They develop and provide
  guidance and procedures for proper identification, packaging, load securing and
  documentation of HM and HW during movement, when European agreements and directives
  govern the movement. They provide clarification and interpretation between the U.S.
  national and military regulations and the rules implemented by European nations in the
  USAFE Area of Responsibility (AOR), i.e., national laws and ordinances implementing
  ADR/RID, ICAO-TI, IMDG-Code, CLP, GHS, border control regarding Ozone Depleting
  Substance (ODS), the reduction of hazardous substances program, or the Registration,
  Authorization, Evaluation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) program. They provide
  recommendations for systematic and strategic solutions concerning the Defense, EUCOM,
  and USAFE Movement System in case of differences to European governing rules. CDGAs
  serve as the advisors to the on-scene Commander of USAFE Emergency Response Teams for
  managing the safe movement of HM/HW in case of accidents/incidents
  2.3. Monitoring: The CDGPM and assigned CDGAs continuously analyze European rules
  and specific Host Nation rules concerning the movement of HM and HW and changes thereto
  to ensure compliance, readiness and responsiveness of USAFE organizations. They notify
  the responsible office of primary responsibility (OPR) when a military instruction is found
  non-compliant with the Host Nation and/or European rules for the movement of HM and
  HW. They will arrange coordination between USAFE JAO and the OPR to determine if
  corrective instructions are required to ensure the military mission is not impacted. They
  monitor regulation and processes to determine possible breaches of traffic safety laws and
  traffic safety ordinances, to recommend corrective actions preventing possible impact or
  disruption of the supply chain, and to prevent monetary punishments to individuals not
  covered under the Status of Forces Agreement, to prevent host nation sanctions such as
6                                                                   USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


    clearance delays or restriction of entry into the country if civilian contractors are used, and to
    subsequently prevent mission failure. The monitoring work requires always Close
    coordination with USAFE JAO to ensure proper interpretation of host nation regulations in
    relation to Status of Forces and international bi-lateral agreements is required.
    2.4. Waivers and Deviations: If United States (U.S.) military regulations do not provide
    for flexibility due to unique DoD systems, the CDGPM and CDGAs ensure standard
    agreements with European Nations are in place to allow the execution of the USAFE mission
    without delay IAW DoD provisions. Standard agreements may be achieved directly or in
    cooperation with other US component command offices or EUCOM offices as identified in
    appropriate joint or EUCOM regulations. Deviations/waivers are only authorized if safety is
    not compromised. The CDGPM represents the Commander as the functional expert during
    the negotiations with the appropriate Host Nation authority concerning deviation from
    HM/HW movement policies. The CDGPM manager ensures a system is in place to obtain
    the necessary permits and clearances regarding deviation/waiver requirements during
    movement of USAFE owned HM. In case deviations permits are requested from Host
    Nation authorities the CDGPM will ensure an expert risk analysis is conducted and
    documented considering all available technical and scientific data to evaluate the risk of
    deviation and to ensure safety is not compromised.
    2.5. CDGP engineering office: This office is responsible to initiate verification of DoD
    Interim Hazardous Classification and waivers through proper Host Nation agencies in case
    HM/HW, packing, equipment, or transport assets are non-compliant to European HM
    regulations. The CDGP engineering office is further responsible for implementing,
    monitoring and administering the Command ADR vehicle certification/inspection program,
    the ADR tank certification/inspection program, and the ADR driver training program in
    compliance with European regulations, status of forces agreements, and specific Host Nation
    rules applicable to the U.S. Forces. The appropriate DoD Instructions will also be applied.
    The appointed CDGA will coordinate requirements with central buy program managers, fleet
    management, or units, as appropriate; will ensure USAFE units maintain a military ADR
    vehicle and ADR tank program in compliance with regulations concerning registration,
    inspection and utilization of vehicles/tanks for the movement of HM/HW on public highways
    in Europe; will ensure standing waivers are negotiated for assigned transport assets and tanks
    in case technical requirements cannot be met without a significant technical modification.
    Further the CDGP engineering office will provide guidance and assistance for adding
    European Safety Data Sheet (SDS) information compliant to EU regulation 453/2010. The
    CDGP engineering office is the USAFE authority to prepare risk analysis for deviating from
    HM regulations during movement based on science, technical, chemical, and physical data.
    The risk analysis will identify recommendations how the risk is minimized by technical or
    operational measurements.
    2.6. Security: Ensure units concerned with movement of high consequence HM/HW items
    implement and comply with security plans and security rules published in 49 CFR, Part 172,
    and the various mode regulations, i.e. ICAO-TI, IMDG Code, ADR and RID; ensure host
    nation security agencies are notified and involved, if required. Ensure security requirements
    established by air and sea directives are complied with when the operation at a European air
    port or sea port is under USAFE control. Ensure Security Forces and base units cooperate in
    regards to Positive Inbound Clearance, carrier and driver identification, proper
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                        7


  documentation and on base routing, suspect vehicle identification and secure holding areas.
  Ensure units owning and releasing high consequence HM/HW provide proper security
  training and instructions to personnel moving or receiving the HM/HW. Cooperate with
  other Component Command offices tasked with Common User Logistics support in the area
  of security to ensure proper security programs and awareness are given at all times to protect
  high consequence HM/HW.
  2.7. Inspections and Reporting: Conduct periodic inspections at USAFE installations.
  Document the inspections on USAFE Form 63, Command Dangerous Goods Advisor
  (CDGA)/Installation Dangerous Goods Advisor (IDGA) Monitoring Report. Report
  deficiencies and findings to the Installation Commander. Recommend corrective actions to
  Senior Leadership. Monitor the implementation of corrective actions. Prepare official
  USAFE reports and statements on accidents, incidents or on breaches of the law during
  movement, loading or off-loading of HM/HW based on information provided on USAFE
  Forms 61, Accident/Incident Report on Occurrences during the Carriage of Dangerous
  Goods/Hazardous Waste, completed by Unit Dangerous Goods Advisors (UDGA), IDGAs or
  the CDGA. If required, provide technical support to the investigating authority. Submit
  official reports to the Competent Authorities (CA) identified by Host Nation directives.
  Provide a quarterly activity report to the Director, Mission Support and Logistics (HQ
  USAFE A4/7), on surveillance activities and program status. Administer, compose and
  submit the annual Command DG movement report in accordance with this instruction.
  Format is provided through USAFE Form 60, Command/ Installation Dangerous Goods
  Advisor Annual Report. Maintain reports at least five years on file.
  2.8. Training: The CDGPM or representative will ensure USAFE units moving HM/HW
  comply with the CDGP training requirements; Provide initial and annual awareness training
  to Senior Leadership assigned to HQ USAFE organizations regarding the CDGP; Provide
  training to the responsible personnel of deficient organization, if required; Provide guidance
  and European Region approved lesson plans for training of personnel executing duties
  identified by the CDGP; Provide handbooks, standardized training material, and official test
  material for the qualification of personnel IAW the training identified in Attachment 5;
  provide budget for the instructor for ADR driver training of personnel assigned to USAFE
  units; Ensure competent and registered/certified training sources are available for training of
  personnel certifying, moving or inspecting DG and assets by any mode; Attend annual
  refresher training and workshops on HM/HW to stay abreast of the latest developments and
  changes in this program; Initiate and conduct the annual workshop to provide required
  refresher training to IDGAs, certifiers, HW program managers, and personnel concerned with
  safety, health and environmental protection programs.
  2.9. Records: The CDGPM or representative will maintain records on personnel assigned to
  USAFE units holding a training certificate identified in the CDGP, including training
  sources, training dates and training expiration for personnel; Maintain copies of appointment
  orders for appointment requirements identified in the CDGP; Maintain records of ADR
  vehicle and ADR tank registrations; Maintain records on CDGA and IDGA activities and
  reports; support host nation authority queries on qualifications, authorization of personnel, or
  registration of assets. All records must be kept on file for at least five years.
  2.10. Investigations: The CDGPM or representative are the command focal point for
  investigations and re-occurring formal compliance inspections concerning the CDGP
8                                                                 USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


    initiated by Host Nation Surveillance Agencies (HNSAs). When approached by the HNSA
    the CDGPM or representative will coordinate the scope and schedule of
    investigation/inspection with all required agencies. In case reportable accidents/ incidents
    occurred during the movement process of HM/HW owned by USAFE units, the CDGAs
    investigate, analyze, and determine causes, and prepare the official reports to the Host Nation
    Competent Authorities; Implement new or revised guidance to prevent re-occurrence of
    causes of reportable accidents/incidents involving HM/HW owned by USAFE units. If
    reportable accidents/incidents are caused by tenant organizations, or are caused by transiting
    units, the CDGPM or representative will engage with the Command having operational
    control over these units to implement the corrective actions/policy. In case these
    organizations have a Dangerous Goods Program, the investigation will be conducted in
    cooperation with the DGA of that organization. The CDGPM or representative will represent
    the USAFE Command during official hearings and investigations concerning
    accidents/incidents involving USAFE owned HM or HW.
    2.11. Conferences and Committees. The CDGPM or representative serve as the USAFE
    representative in the International Coordination Group for HM/HW movements; serve as the
    USAFE Co-Chairman of the U.S. Forces Joint DG Steering Committee in Europe;
    participate as the USAFE representative and functional expert in the Host Nation Military
    Committees, Hazardous Cargo Subgroups, regulating national HM/HW movement applicable
    to military forces; participate as the USAFE representative for HM/HW movements in
    NATO Standardization committees for air, land and sea movements.
    2.12. Contingency Operations. CDGAs consult to planners of deployments and
    contingency operations responsible to oversee plans and programs for compliance on
    HW/HM safety and security during movement as applicable to contingency operations
    USAFE is involved in. The CDGA will:
       2.12.1. Review plans and programs for the deployment of units tasked to support
       contingency operations or training exercises ensuring compliance with HM/HW safety
       and security regulations for movement as applicable to the area of operations and transit
       countries.
       2.12.2. Study and monitor safety and security regulations on movement of HM/HW
       applicable to US Forces in the USAFE AOR in countries which are frequently used by
       USAFE units for training exercises and where no other US military is permanently
       present. The tasked CDGA provides information to the CDGPM on regulations
       applicable in these areas to ensure proper standardized instructions are in place.
       2.12.3. Ensure deployment handbooks covering HM/HW movement safety and security
       specific to the deployment area are made available to the unit commander prior to the
       deployment as part of the preparation for the deployment. Deployment handbooks need
       to contain the references to commander duties listed in this instruction and identify any
       additional responsibilities regarding HM/HW not covered in US military instructions.
       Ensure the commander of the deploying unit receives awareness training regarding his
       responsibilities identified in HM/HW movement regulations, this instruction, and if
       applicable as identified in the CDGA instructions for the area of deployment.
       2.12.4. Ensure certifiers and Unit DGAs (UDGA) qualified on movement and border
       crossing requirements for the area of operation are assigned to the unit. Ensure qualified
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                    9


      UDGAs and certifiers receive additional training regarding country specific HM/HW
      movement requirements prior to the assignment.
      2.12.5. Provide consultation to the commander of the deploying unit and provide support
      regarding proper preparation for re-deployment and HW disposal.
      2.12.6. Inform UDGAs and DGAs of transshipping agencies on the deployment
      requirements for HM/HW shipping, ensuring proper monitoring, preparation and
      transshipping of HM/HW to prevent any mission stoppage, delay, violation of
      regulations, or accident/incident.
      2.12.7. Cooperate closely with CDGP Engineering Office regarding risk analysis and
      risk management when deviations from safety regulations are required, i.e. when moving
      personnel and HM in the same conveyance, or when moving HM in incompatible
      configuration for the purpose of military exigency.
      2.12.8. Investigate and report accidents/incidents involving HM/HW during movement
      at the place of deployment IAW this instruction and in coordination with CDGPM.
      2.12.9. Maintain records and documentation on CDGA activities IAW this instruction.
      2.12.10. Ensure the deploying unit has proper certified vehicles and qualified drivers
      IAW regulations applicable to vehicles carrying HM in the deployed area. This includes
      the transit route to the deployment area.
      2.12.11. In cooperation with the CDGPM maintain records of qualified UDGAs,
      certifiers, drivers assigned to USAFE units which can be assigned to deployment or
      contingent missions.
      2.12.12. Assess readiness to move HM/HW based on training statistics reported by the
      USAFE wings and assist the IDGAs in determining the minimum number of UDGAs,
      certifiers (ADR/RID/IMDG/AFMAN 24-204_IP/IATA-DGR), ADR drivers, Technical
      Specialists or Technical Experts, as appropriate.
      2.12.13. Visit deployed units to conduct CDGP monitoring activities if indication of
      compromising safety and security of HM/HW during movement is given.
      2.12.14. Cooperate and support other functions, i.e. Environmental, Health, Security,
      Emergency Response, and Safety, as appropriate in deployment/re-deployment planning
      and/or in case of accidents/incidents.
3. The Installation Commander will:
   3.1. Installation Dangerous Goods Advisor (IDGA): Appoint a qualified primary and
   alternate Installation DGA (IDGA) in writing using USAFE Form 66, Dangerous Goods
   Advisor (DGA) Appointment Order, and provide a copy of the appointment to the CDGP
   office. The IDGA is a full time position provided through the USAFE Commander Bill Pay
   program. The alternate IDGA supports the on-call duty program of the IDGA. The alternate
   IDGA duty should be delegated to the most qualified Unit DGA (UDGA). Through the
   IDGA ensure subordinate units comply with the CDGP. Ensure the appointment describes
   the scope of the IDGA duties and responsibilities in accordance with this policy and local
   requirements. If more than one DGA is appointed, the appointment orders will identify the
   responsibilities of each appointee in writing. Establish the IDGA office not lower than
10                                                           USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


  Group level. Options are the Installation Commander Staff office, the Mission Support
  Group (preferred), or Logistics Readiness Group or Logistics group, as appropriate. Ensure
  the IDGA has at least two years of experience as a DG certifier prior to the appointment.
  Ensure the IDGA appointments are issued only to DG qualified Senior Transportation
  Specialists, or Technical Logistics Engineers.
  3.2. Installation Dangerous Goods Program (IDGP): Ensure an IDGP compliant to this
  instruction is implemented. Determine which safety program is used for the movement of
  HM/HW on base. If not ADR, ensure training and safety requirements meet US provisions
  in line with 49 CFR and appropriate DOD regulations. Ensure the IDGA has access to
  organizations and information for review and analysis of organizational processes,
  qualifications and appointments of personnel, HM/HW inventory, ADR vehicles/ADR
  tanks, and equipment containing HM. Ensure specific procedures and policies are
  established regulating the safe movement of HM/HW based on the CDGP and local
  requirements and are enforced for compliance by subordinate units. Ensure the IDGA is able
  to keep the organizational DGA program current by providing sufficient funding to the
  IDGA office for purchasing laws, regulations, informational material and training aids as
  required. Ensure units moving dangerous goods have at least one primary and one alternate
  UDGA appointed to ensure unit training and surveillance. UDGA duties identified by the
  IDGP are not additional duties. UDGAs receive additional training and knowledge to
  execute supervisor duties formatted to the CDGP to prevent non-compliance of productions
  they are responsible for.
  3.3. Reports: Ensure the annual IDGP report is composed and submitted to the USAFE
  CDGP office not later than (NLT) 15 January each year. The format of the report is provided
  through USAFE Form 60. Ensure the annual report is kept on file for at least 5 years. Upon
  request the annual report will be made available to the HNSA. Ensure the IDGA has access
  to the Installation Commander for providing a quarterly update report on program
  implementation and status. Ensure the IDGA has access to the Installation Commander on
  short notice, to report a situation requiring immediate attention of the Commander. Ensure
  quarterly reports are submitted to the CDGPM to provide information on program
  development and status.
  3.4. Inspections and Surveillance:
     3.4.1. Internal: Ensure the IDGA inspects units moving HM or producing HW at least
     once per year for compliance with the CDGP and HM/HW regulations.
         3.4.1.1. Ensure inspections are documented on USAFE Form 63 for internal use, and
         on USAFE Form 62, Quarterly Dangerous Goods Advisor (DGA) Activity Report for
         review by the CDGPM. Upon request USAFE Forms 62 can be reviewed by the
         HNSA. If contacted by the HNSA refer them the CDGPM to obtain copies of the
         requested report. The CDGPM and USAFE JAO will coordinate on the response and
         release of information provided on USAFE Form 62 through the appropriate
         channels. USAFE Form 62 is a summary of IDGA activities and is issued on a
         quarterly basis for review by the Installation Commander and submission to the
         CDGPM.
     3.4.2. External: Support the review of the CDGP implementation by the CDGPM or
     representative. In case of reportable accidents/incidents involving HM originating or
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                      11


     transiting the installation, support the CDGPM or representative by enabling access to
     required information and organizations involved in the accident/incident. Refer the
     HNSA to the CDGPM on planned Host Nation surveillance activity or investigation.
     Ensure the CDGPM is informed on no notice or short notice Host Nation surveillance
     activities.
         3.4.2.1. In coordination with the CDGPM grant access to the installation for
         personnel assigned to the HNSA for the purpose of inspection of administrative areas,
         storage sites, load sites, vehicles and planes used for moving HM/HW. Status of
         Forces Agreements/bi-lateral agreements will be followed concerning HNSA
         activities on US installations including provisions on access to restricted and
         classified areas and information. If requested, ensure documentation on HM/HW
         movements is provided for review by HNSA personnel. Upon request provide
         auxiliary equipment (i.e., forklift) to HNSA personnel. HM related to weapon
         systems are not subject to this regulation. Access to weapons systems and weapon
         system-related material must be coordinated through the agencies listed in the
         applicable Status of Forces Agreement between the Host Nation and U.S. Forces. In
         case of findings the CDGPM will evaluate the directives issued by the HNSA and
         determine how to respond in coordination with USAFE JAO. Information which can
         be considered "self-incrimination" will not be provided to the HNSA.
  3.5. Training and appointment: Ensure awareness training on the CDGP is obtained from
  the IDGA within 90 days of assumption of command. Ensure the training program identified
  in the CDGP is properly installed, executed, and funded. Through the IDGA ensure
  personnel executing duties in conjunction with HM/HW are properly trained before assuming
  their duties. Ensure only personnel in possession of a valid training certificate are appointed
  as DGA or Certifier. Drivers holding a valid ADR driver certificate do not require an
  appointment. Delegation of duties by appointment order to DGAs and Certifiers does not
  relief the commander from responsibilities listed in HM/HW regulations. Ensure units
  moving HM/HW appoint a sufficient amount of qualified and appointed certifiers for
  road/rail/air/sea, as appropriate. Ensure the number of required certifiers established by each
  Squadron is tracked to ensure mission stoppage is prevented due to lack of qualified
  personnel. Ensure the numbers of required CDGP training slots for the wing are reported to
  the CDGP office as part of the annual report or when changes occur. Ensure the training
  forecast covers the period of the next two fiscal years at least.
  3.6. Security: Ensure security plans are implemented for HM/HW identified in 49 CFR,
  Part 172, and the mode specific security regulations outlined in ADR, RID, ICAO-TI and the
  IMDG code. Ensure a secure holding area for transport assets loaded with HM/HW is
  identified to cope with security violations.
  3.7. Tenant organizations: Ensure tenant units located on their installation comply with the
  USAFE CDGP. Through support agreements ensure the IDGA has access to the tenant
  organization for reviewing compliance with HM/HW movement regulations. Provide access
  to the training program on a reimbursable basis.
  3.8. Deployments: For deployments, ensure certifiers and DGAs assigned to the deployed
  unit are properly trained for the requirements valid for the area of deployment, and are on
  appointment orders of the commander in charge of the deployed unit. Ensure personnel
 12                                                             USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


   holding appointment orders from other commanders than the unit commander in charge of
   the deployed unit, are appointed by the unit commander of the deployed unit. Prior to
   appointment, ensure through the IDGA or deployment planners that the personnel from other
   units have valid training certificates for the scope of appointment. Ensure units deploying
   HM to conduct their business processes at the deployed location include HW disposal into
   the planning of the deployment. If HW cannot be disposed of at the deployed location,
   ensure the IDGA together with deployment planners and the unit research HW movement
   requirements IAW the Basel Convention, IAW 40 CFR, Part 262.58, International
   Agreements, for movement from deployment sites of countries listed therein, and the
   applicable mode regulation.
4. The IDGA will:
   4.1. Installation Dangerous Goods Program (IDGP): Implement and maintain the IDGP
   based on this regulation, the applicable DoD and U.S. regulations, and based on the
   functional responsibility explained in Part 2 below. Develop and document the IDGP by
   establishing an Installation instruction specific to the mission of the organization and by
   clearly identifying which unit has duties and responsibilities IAW the CDGP. Integrate rules
   of local authorities regarding movement of HM in public areas surrounding the base. Stay
   abreast of Host Nation/European/command rules concerning the movement of HM/HW and
   changes thereto. Ensure units responsible for loading, storing, handling and off-loading
   HM/HW have implemented proper Operating Instructions and training for assigned
   personnel concerning accident prevention and personnel safety. Ensure accident/incident
   reporting is implemented as part of emergency measures in response to accidents/incidents
   involving HM during movement and/or during loading and movement preparation.
   Procedures will be included into the current Installation Emergency Response Plans and must
   be briefed to every driver before departure.
   4.2. Consulting and Guidance: Act as a consultant to the Installation Commander and
   subordinate organizations and their customers concerning plans and program involving the
   movement of HM/HW. Provide clarification between the U.S. military regulations/Code of
   Federal Regulation (CFR 49), Transportation and the European rules ADR/RID. Provide
   assistance to customers concerning classification of HM/HW when the material is not
   specifically identified by U.N. number. In this case consider the characteristics of the
   HM/HW and regulations concerning generic identification of HM/HW. Develop and
   implement checklists for supporting compliance with the CDGP and to avoid sanctions listed
   in Attachment 4. These sanctions are based on mode regulations and enforcement rules
   implemented by European Nations. Caution: Local rules may impose additional sanctions
   not listed in Attachment 4. Consult with the CDGP engineering office if classification
   cannot be determined locally. Provide recommendations regarding plans and programs for
   deployment and day-to-day solutions for the movement of HM/HW through the Defense
   Transportation System (DTS) or by organic means. For international organic transportation
   of HM/HW provide expertise and guidance to the shipper/consignor concerning
   specifications required for the transport assets, identification, packaging, special routings,
   documentation, and clearances. When tasked by higher Command level, coordinate
   movement of HM/HW through their organization based on Foreign Military Sales and
   Military Assistance Program Plans of the U.S. Government.                   When reviewing
   documentation, technical requirements, identification for the proper identification,
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                      13


  preparation and movement of HM/HW determine possible breaches of the Host Nation
  Dangerous Goods laws which can cause fines or disruptions of the supply chain and advise
  the responsible person of the situation. Provide corrective measures in this case to enable
  mission accomplishment. In case differences between European and US regulations for a
  particular case are found, report these to the CDGPM or representative for solution. When
  tasked serve as a member of the EUCOM Joint Hazardous Material Steering Committee
  (EJHMSC).
  4.3. Inspection and Reporting: Conduct and document at least one inspections per unit
  reviewing compliance with the CDGP and HM/HW movement regulations. Use USAFE
  Form 63 to document the inspection and the recommended solutions for eliminating the
  identified discrepancies. The inspection will review system implementation, training,
  appointments, documentation, processes, HM storage, HM packages, HM identification,
  Safety Data Sheet content, security, emergency response, and risk assessment. Inspect
  equipment and load securing material used during loading/off-loading operations of HM/HW
  for compliance with safety regulations. Monitor compliance with HM/HW movement
  regulations when contractors are hired for the movement of U.S. Government-owned or
  leased dangerous goods. Inspect contracts and tenders of service for proper delegation of
  duties to the carrier, and for submitting proper HM identification by traceable means to the
  carrier. Notify the CDGPM if discrepancies are based on conflicting instructions/regulations.
  Units with large volume of HM/HW or units found non-compliant will be visited more
  frequently or as necessary. Report IDGA activities quarterly to the Installation Commander
  and document the report on USAFE Form 62. If the quarterly report is not provided in
  person use AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, or the electronic version, with the USAFE
  Form 62 attached, to document the information was provided to the Commander. A copy of
  the quarterly report will be submitted to the CDGPM. Ensure the equipment listed in ADR,
  Section 8, and the additional equipment listed in the ―Instructions in Writing‖ is on board the
  transport asset. Also check serviceability and authorization of the items. Additionally item
  technical orders (T.O.) may direct specific minimum withdrawal distances and evacuation
  procedures, or the use of special equipment, like protective clothing, spill kits, masks, fire
  fighting instructions including special fire extinguishing agents and neutralizing agents.
  Ensure instructions specified in these DoD manuals are attached to the ―Instructions in
  Writing.‖ Ensure rules concerning permits and clearances regarding HM/HW movements
  are complied with. Compose reports on accidents, incidents or on breaches of the law during
  transportation, loading or off-loading of dangerous goods in the format provided in each
  mode regulation. Submits reports to the CDGPM for processing to the respective Host
  Nation Competent Authority. Use USAFE Form 61 for capturing the information on
  accidents/incidents. To determine when the accident report on USAFE Form 61 is required
  refer to the information provided in Attachment 2. Compose and submit the annual
  dangerous goods report on USAFE Form 60. Report names, unit, training dates, sources and
  expiration dates of trained personnel and appointed personnel to the CDGP office as changes
  occur. Ensure units maintain Safety Data Sheets in the format identified in Attachment 8.
  4.4. Waivers: Route verification requirements for Interim Hazardous Classification (IHC)
  and standing waivers through the CDGPM or representative. If vehicle specifications are not
  in compliance with Host Nation regulations for DG vehicles request standing waivers
  through the CDGP engineering office for assigned military vehicles. For one time local
14                                                               USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


  deviations, contact the local authority appointed by the Host Nation Government to work the
  required waiver. When tasked, support the CDGPM or representative as the local
  functional/organizational expert during negotiations with the appropriate Host Nation
  authority.
  4.5. Dangerous goods vehicle program and technical requirements: Provide guidance
  and surveillance for ensuring the installation has a military vehicle program in compliance
  with safety regulations concerning registration, inspection, and utilization of vehicles for the
  movement of HM/HW on public roads. For off base movements, ensure general safety
  measurements are followed which are not specifically listed in ADR but are a prerequisite for
  the safe movement of HM/HW. This includes but is not limited to load distribution plans,
  technical data on load securing capacity of the hooks for tie down equipment, floor/frame
  capacity, specification of tarps, ventilation, ISO fittings, firefighting equipment,
  miscellaneous equipment required by part 8 ADR, as listed in the instructions in writing or as
  listed in item T.Os. Ensure personnel accepting a vehicle for loading HM/HW onto it, or
  filling a tank with HM are qualified to check compliance of the vehicle/tank and the
  miscellaneous equipment with the requirements specific to the HM/HW before loading the
  vehicle/filling the tank. Ensure records are maintained properly, i.e. the tank record, the
  certificate of approval for vehicles carrying certain dangerous goods, data plate and record
  for type approval and inspection interval of tanks.
  4.6. Security: Ensure the installation implements security plans IAW Docket No. PHMSA–
  06–25885 (HM–232F)], integrating requirements of the European ADR/RID agreement as
  appropriate, and the DTR Part II, Ch 205. The AFMC provided template may also be used
  and adjusted to the European security requirements. A security plan must include an
  assessment of possible transportation security risks and appropriate measures to address the
  assessed risks. Specific measures implemented as part of the plan may vary with the level of
  threat at a particular time. At a minimum, the security plan must address personnel security,
  unauthorized access, and en-route security. For personnel security, the plan must include
  measures to confirm information provided by job applicants for positions involving access to
  and handling of the hazardous materials covered by the plan. For unauthorized access, the
  plan must include measures to address the risk of unauthorized persons gaining access to
  materials or transport conveyances being prepared for transportation. For en-route security,
  the plan must include measures to address security risks during transportation, including the
  security of shipments stored temporarily en-route to their destinations. The security plan
  must consider provision for the EUCOM common user logistics system, for organic
  movement, and for movement by commercial means.
     4.6.1. The security plan shall comprise at least the following elements:
         4.6.1.1. specific allocation of responsibilities for security to competent and qualified
         persons with appropriate authority to carry out their responsibilities;
         4.6.1.2. records of dangerous goods or types of dangerous goods concerned;
         4.6.1.3. review of current operations and assessment of security risks, including any
         stops necessary to the transport operation, the keeping of dangerous goods in the
         vehicle, tank or container before, during and after the journey and the intermediate
         temporary storage of dangerous goods during the course of intermodal transfer or
         transshipment between units as appropriate;
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                        15


         4.6.1.4. clear statement of measures that are to be taken to reduce security risks,
         commensurate with the responsibilities and duties of the participants, including:
             4.6.1.4.1. training;
             4.6.1.4.2. security policies (e.g. response to higher threat conditions, new
             employee/employment verification, etc.);
             4.6.1.4.3. operating practices (e.g. choice/use of routes where known, access to
             dangerous goods in intermediate temporary storage (as defined in 4.6.1.3.,
             proximity to vulnerable infrastructure etc.);
             4.6.1.4.4. equipment and resources that are to be used to reduce security risks;
             4.6.1.4.5. effective and up to date procedures for reporting and dealing with
             security threats, breaches of security or security incidents;
             4.6.1.4.6. procedures for the evaluation and testing of security plans and
             procedures for periodic review and update of the plans;
             4.6.1.4.7. measures to ensure the physical security of transport information
             contained in the security plan; and
             4.6.1.4.8. measures to ensure that the distribution of information relating to the
             transport operation contained in the security plan is limited to those who need to
             have it. Such measures shall not preclude the provision of information required
             elsewhere in DG regulations.
             NOTE: Carriers, consignors and consignees should co-operate with each other
             and with Competent authorities to exchange threat information, apply
             appropriate security measures and respond to security incidents.
     4.6.2. If devices, equipment or arrangements to prevent the theft of the vehicle carrying
     high consequence dangerous goods and its cargo are applied, measures need to be taken
     to ensure that these are operational and effective at all times. The application of these
     protective measures shall not jeopardize emergency response.
  4.7. Training Provide initial and annual awareness training to the appointed Installation
  Commander, Senior Leaders and Unit Commanders having responsibility identified n the
  CDGP/IDGP. Ensure awareness training concerning HM/HW movement rules applicable in
  the AOR is provided to commanders within 90 days of assumption of responsibilities.
  Ensure subordinate units and tenants involved in moving HM/HW have an efficient training
  program in accordance with the CDGP. In coordination with the USAFE CDGP office,
  ensure competent and registered/certified training sources are available for training of
  personnel certifying, moving or inspecting dangerous goods and assets by any mode.
  Provide assistance in determining training requirements and training sources for the
  organization. If required, provide training to the responsible personnel of the deficient
  organization.    Arrange/conduct initial training for UDGAs and unit personnel
  supervising/executing HM/HW movements via road/rail and intermodal traffic. To ensure
  wing readiness, coordinate with unit commanders a minimum number of trained personnel
  for executing UDGA, certifier, technical specialist, technical expert, or ADR driver duties, as
  appropriate. Attend annual Command DGA workshop to stay abreast of the latest
  developments and changes in this program. Initiate and/or conduct annual refresher training
16                                                             USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


  to the appointed UDGAs, certifiers and ADR drivers ensuring they are informed on the latest
  changes in HM/HW movement rules. Annual refresher training is required for all shipping
  modes. Ensure the Installation Deployment Officer (IDO)/Unit Deployment Manager
  (UDM) is trained to understand the difference between regulations concerning ―carriage‖ and
  ―transportation‖ (mobilization and sustainment) of HM/HW during deployment. Units also
  need to ensure trained personnel are assigned to manage the HW disposal at the deployment
  site. Ensure security training is conducted by the unit owning high consequence items.
  4.8. Records and Library. Keep records on all trainees, training sources, training date and
  training expiration for personnel involved in handling, packing, certifying, moving and
  documenting hazardous goods. Ensure a current list of vehicles/tanks certified for the
  movement of DG (flammable (FL) and explosive (EX) II/III) by registration number and
  type is maintained. Provide an updated copy to the CDGP office semiannually. Maintain
  records and documentation on all DGA actions and annual reports for review by higher HQ
  and Host Nation authorities for at least 5 years. The following records must be maintained:
  documentation on inspections; training records of certifiers, drivers and DGAs; appointment
  orders of certifiers and assigned DGAs, list of certified dangerous goods vehicles and tanks,
  i.e., EXII and FL certifications; accidents/incident reports; annual dangerous goods report;
  Interim Hazardous Classifications; CA approvals and waivers; briefings to the Commander;
  listing of Supplements, Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) / Operating Instructions (OI)
  containing dangerous goods regulations for specific units; listing of type of spill kits and
  location by unit; and listing of approved Position Descriptions (PD) containing duties
  regulated by HM/HW regulations. Documentation on review of unit deployment plans,
  identification of Unit Line Numbers (ULN) for packages containing dangerous goods, and
  advice the Unit Deployment Officer (UDO) concerning proper identification and movement
  procedures of deployment of HM/HW cargo. Ensure Host Nation waivers are in place for
  the carriage of HM/HW during deployment. Maintain a current HM/HW library and training
  material according to the mission of the organization. This may include national and
  international regulations, hard copy and electronic copies covering all modes; regulations and
  updates must be procured as soon as they are available. The IDGA will inform the appointed
  UDGAs on new and changed HM/HW regulations. Ensure UDGAs maintain current
  regulations on HM/HW movement rules according to their mission.
  4.9. Investigations and accidents/incidents. In conjunction with Para 3.4. act as the
  Installation focal point for investigations and formal compliance inspections concerning the
  HM/HW Movement Program. The accident/incident reporting program under the CDGP is
  in addition to the safety mishap investigation program and not to cause immediate
  notifications of an accident or incident to emergency response forces. It is designed to
  discover deficiencies and implement corrections in regulations applicable to the safe
  movement of HM/HW. Therefore reports must consider all the facts and can take months to
  compose before they can be released. Notify the CDGPM immediately on all reportable
  accidents/incidents. Criteria for reportable incidents/accidents are identified in Attachment
  2 of this instruction.
     4.9.1. Support the CDGPM during investigations, or, if tasked by the CDGPM, conduct
     self-responsible investigations on reportable accidents/incidents and collect the data for
     preparation of the report to the respective host nation authority. The accident report or
     data will be routed through the Installation Commander to the CDGPM. The CDGPM
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                       17


      will staff the report through USAFE and other required US officials for release to the
      Host Nation authority. Data in the report that can be interpreted as self incrimination will
      not be released to the host nation. Investigate self-responsible, non-reportable
      accidents/incidents, determine and analyze causes, and implement new or revised
      Installation policies and procedures to prevent accidents/incidents during the movement
      of HM/HW. IDGAs organize on-call duty service with the alternate IDGA or other
      UDGAs to ensure DGA service is always available to the on-scene commander for
      managing the safe movement of HM/HW from the scene of incident/accident.
5. Squadron Commanders. Squadron commanders will:
   5.1. Appointment and Training: Ensure awareness training concerning HM/HW
   movement rules applicable in the AOR is obtained from the IDGA within 90 days of
   assumption of responsibilities. Units moving or packing, loading, filling or unloading
   HM/HW, must appoint at least one primary and one alternate Unit DGA (UDGA), using
   USAFE Form 66. Ensure a copy of the appointment order is submitted to the IDGA. If more
   than one UDGA is appointed, use block 10 of the USAFE Form 66 to specify authorization
   and area of responsibility of each UDGA. UDGA duties must be assigned to personnel
   supervising HM/HW movement processes. If a qualified and appointed UDGA is deployed
   to another unit, the appointment of the home station commander is not valid. The unit
   commander of the deployed unit must provide his own appointment orders to the UDGA,
   showing proper delegation of his responsibility to the appointed person. Depending on
   workload and location UDGAs may be appointed at element, flight, squadron, or group level.
   A UDGA cannot be appointed as certifier due to conflict in function.
      5.1.1. Appoint at least one primary and one alternate qualified certifier to certify
      consignments which are fully and accurately described, classified, packaged, marked and
      labeled/placarded and are in all respects in proper condition for transport according to US
      military, international and national regulations. Certifiers are required for all movement
      modes. For appointing certifiers use USAFE Form 67A, Certifier for Dangerous Goods
      and Hazardous Waste Movements Appointment Order – Mode Air, and USAFE Form
      67B, Certifier for Dangerous Goods and Hazardous Waste Movements Appointment
      Order – Mode Surface, as appropriate. Ensure a copy of the appointment order is
      submitted to the IDGA. Personnel appointed as certifier cannot be appointed as UDGA
      at the same time.
      5.1.2. Squadron Commanders in charge of maintenance activities responsible for
      conducting the European Compliance Inspection Program (ECIP) and the Hazardous
      Vehicle Compliance Program (HVCP) ensure only qualified and properly appointed
      vehicle experts conduct inspections for the initial vehicle registration or annual extension
      of the registration (EXII or FL). The CDGP Engineering Office has overall responsibility
      for the USAFE Dangerous Goods vehicle certification/inspection program. Ensure close
      coordination between the unit and the CDGP Engineering Office to maintain on-time
      scheduling of vehicle or tank inspections and re-certification.
      5.1.3. Ensure UDGAs, certifiers, inspectors and other responsible individuals (drivers,
      packers, loaders, etc.) are properly trained prior to assuming their assigned functions.
      Ensure appointment orders for certifiers or UDGAs are revoked if the mandatory
      refresher training is missed. The squadron commander is authorized to extend the
18                                                              USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


     validity of the training certificate by 60 days. If the holder of the training certificate is
     not able to achieve refresher training within the 60 day period, the individual must
     accomplish the initial training course to obtain a new training certificate.
     5.1.4. To ensure unit readiness, identify a minimum number of trained personnel for
     UDGA, certifier, Technical Specialist, Technical Expert, and ADR driver duties to the
     IDGA. Ensure the IDGA is informed when the number of trained personnel will drop
     below the unit‘s minimum training level.
  5.2. Vehicles and Handling: Ensure hazard class 1 items which list special provision V2 in
  Columns 16 table 3.2., ADR, or hazard class 3 HM/HW in portable, demountable or fixed
  tanks exceeding the capacity listed in Part 9, subsection 9.1.1.2., ADR, are moved only on
  vehicles compliant to the ADR part 9; ensure the certificates of approval are current. Ensure
  units/flights operating vehicles certified as ―FL‖ or ―EXII‖ conduct and document the proper
  inspections every twelve months based on the checklists identified in Attachment 7 of this
  regulation. The next approval term shall, however, be related to the last nominal expiry date,
  if the technical inspection is performed within one month before or after that date. Ensure a
  vehicle is not used to carry HM/HW after the expiration date of the certificate of approval.
  Ensure units/flights operating tank vehicles maintain proper tank records as listed in Chapter
  4.3.2.1.7. ADR. If the unit has no certified brake test stand, ensure a contract is in place to
  obtain the test from an authorized contractor. Tank tests must be conducted every three
  years, for tank containers every 2.5 years as listed in Chapter 6.7. and 6.8. ADR. Units in
  charge of tank inspection programs must ensure contracts are in place with authorized
  contractors to conduct the required tests and inspections. Contact the CDGP Engineering
  Office for scheduling re-certification of vehicles and tanks. Ensure the documentation of
  tests and inspections are provided for review and approval by the appointed engineer.
     5.2.1. Ensure general safety principles are applied for movement of HM/HW of other
     hazard classes not requiring special vehicle certificates of approval IAW ADR. In
     addition to U.S. regulations on road/rail movements, ensure the regulations and special
     provisions outlined in ADR, Parts 7 and 8 are applied and adhered to. In case of
     conflicting instructions, consult with the IDGA for guidance.
  5.3. Accidents/Incidents and Inspections: Compliant to Para 4.9. ensure in case of an
  incident/accident, the UDGA compiles the data required in the accident/incident report
  format listed in Attachment 2; ensure the IDGA is notified immediately; ensure data
  required for the report (USAFE Form 61) is made in accordance with this regulation and as
  directed by the IDGA/CDGPM. To determine when the accident report on USAFE Form 61
  is required refer to the information provided in Attachment 2. Provide assistance to the Host
  Nation inspectors as requested for investigations of incidents/accidents. Provide access to
  the organization and to information during monitoring activities of the IDGA or CDGPM.
  Ensure corrective actions are implemented within 60 days to prevent reoccurrence.
  5.4. Hazardous Waste: In case of transboundary movement ensure processes which
  produce hazardous waste are properly documented IAW the FGS, IAW 40 CFR, part 262.58
  International Agreements, and IAW the HM regulation governing the mode of movement for
  disposal. Personnel charged with proper documentation and identification of HW must be
  trained as Technical Expert IAW this regulation.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                   19


   5.5. Unit Deployment: If the unit deployment package contains HM, ensure qualified
   certifiers, drivers, customs clearance officers and UDGAs are assigned to the deployed unit
   to handle the movement of HM. When planning the move, consider required lead time for
   clearance and routings of HM. Allow at least 20 calendar days from the date of submitting
   the movement request until the movement date. Ensure the deployment planning considers
   HW disposal at the deployment location. If required contact DLA-DISPOSITION
   SERVICES for assistance. If disposal at the deployed location is not possible, the HW will
   not be offered for movement unless all approvals and notifications required for
   transboundary movement of HW are achieved. Providing documentation of notification or
   approval for HW movement is a unit responsibility. Transportation personnel assigned to the
   deployed unit will not accept HW for movement unless all HW approval documentation is
   provided. Ensure routing, shipping, and clearance processes are worked by transportation
   personnel IAW HM/HW and EMCS procedures.
   5.6. Records and Library. Ensure the UDGA produces and keeps all records required by
   the CDGP. Ensure the UDGA keeps CDGP records applicable to the unit listed in Para 4.8.
   on file for at least five years. Ensure proper funds are made available to keep the CDGP
   library current.
6. Unit Dangerous Goods Advisors (UDGA): The UDGAs are responsible to enforce
compliance to HM rules within their duty area ensuring risks inherent to handling/movement of
HM/HW with regards to persons, property and the environment is minimized. Because of the
overseas regulatory environment UDGA duties are mission essential requirements. UDGA
duties are identified in HM regulations and fit the duty of a supervisor in charge. Personnel
appointed as UDGAs will:
   6.1. Unit Dangerous Goods Program implementation: Review and adjust processes
   under the UDGA supervision involving handling/movement of HM/HW compliant to the
   CDGP and IDGP. Ensure unit compliance with HG/HW regulations by inspecting and
   analyzing HM/HW processes using checklists implemented in coordination with the IDGA.
   Ensure compliance checklists tailored to the functions and movement modes executed by the
   unit are built to prevent sanctions listed in Attachment 4.
   6.2. Guidance and Consulting: Ensure unit operating instructions are in place providing
   specific guidance to personnel executing functions identified in the CDGP and IDGP.
   Consult with the unit commander and with personnel in charge of plans and programs on
   proper movement and handling of HM/HW IAW the unit mission. Review and develop
   procedures and unit instructions concerning load securing and the safe movement of HM/HW
   in line with this regulation and applicable DoD and Host Nation HM/HW rules. Prior to
   implementation, coordinate unit procedures and instructions with the IDGA. Implement and
   execute proper emergency procedures in case of an incident/accident ensuring maximum
   safety during the loading, unloading and removing of HM/HW at the scene of
   accident/incident. Cooperate with the local Fire Chief concerning emergency response plans.
   Implement appropriate measures and monitor processes to avoid the reoccurrence of
   accidents, incidents and serious infringements. Submit a copy of the unit emergency
   response plan to the IDGA for review and coordination. Identify requirements for
   derogations and submit requests for waivers to the IDGA.
20                                                             USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


     6.2.1. Submit information about deviations from handling/movement regulations for
     HM/HW or conflicting information found in regulations to the IDGA for solution.
     Determine HM/HW identification discrepancies and notify the IDGA.
     6.2.2. When required, prepare waiver request through the IDGA IAW para 4.4. After the
     annual update training review existing OIs/SOPs for compliance with new regulations or
     regulation changes.
  6.3. Records, Library and Reports: Maintain records identified in Para 4.8. Ensure Safety
  Data Sheets are on hand including requirements listed in Attachment 8 of this regulation.
  Compile data in the format prescribed on USAFE form 60 and submit this data to the IDGA
  frequently but not later than 15 December each year for the period 1 October through 30
  September. Maintain records and documents on file for at least 5 years or as directed by
  other regulations. Provide assistance to the IDGA for compiling and reporting data in
  accordance with ADR, Section 1.8., on serious accidents, incidents or serious infringements
  recorded during the loading, transport and unloading of dangerous goods. USAFE Form 61
  provides the format for accident reports and the data required. Accident reports are required
  when during the movement and loading or off-loading of HM/HW personnel or animals were
  injured/killed, or property or the environment was damaged by HM/HW spills. This includes
  accidents/incidents on military installations. To determine when the accident report on
  USAFE Form 61 is required refer to the information provided in Attachment 2.
  6.4. Training: Based on unit mission, assist the unit commander in identifying the
  minimum amount of personnel requiring qualification as UDGA, certifier, technical
  specialist, technical expert, or ADR driver. Ensure a forecast identifying the number of
  training slots for UDGAs, certifier, technical specialist, technical expert, or ADR driver is
  provided to the IDGA covering the next three fiscal years. The data must be provided in
  conjunction with the annual report. In case of immediate and unforeseen training needs
  notify the IDGA. Provide frequent update training (as changes occur or as required) to
  personnel involved in handling, certifying and movement of HM/HW. Maintain a list of
  trained and appointed personnel assigned to the unit and submit the data to the IDGA as
  changes occur. Attend the annual re-fresher training provided by the IDGA. Ensure the
  information provided during the annual refresher training is provided to all unit personnel
  involved in movement and preparation of HM/HW. The training will be conducted
  immediately following the annual update training provided by the IDGA. Ensure completion
  of annual refresher training is reported to the IDGA. Provide and document HM/HW safety
  training to ―Other Responsible Personnel‖ assigned to the unit. Report if personnel did not
  attend the mandatory refresher training within the allotted time frame to the unit commander
  for revoking the appointment orders of the individual.
  6.5. Inspections and monitoring: Execute the unit commander‘s duty by ensuring
  processes and personnel qualifications meet HM/HW requirements. Monitor DG certifiers
  and other responsible personnel and ensure HM/HW preparation and movement meets
  HM/HW regulations. Inform the unit commander and the IDGA immediately if program
  deficiencies are found during inspections. Maintain documentation on inspections in the
  format provided on USAFE Form 63, including the date/time the inspection was conducted,
  the names of inspected persons and office, and the types of processes inspected (for example,
  certification, packaging, loading). Ensure availability of required documentation and safety
  equipment to be carried during the movement of HM/HW. Ensure safety equipment is
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                               21


  serviceable and authorized/compatible to the HM/HW moved. Ensure the content of
  documentation is correct and valid. Identify discrepancies in the assigned vehicle fleet
  regarding specifications for movement of HM/HW and submit the data to the IDGA. Ensure
  load securing material and handling equipment used during loading/offloading of HM/HW
  complies with HM safety provisions.
 22                                                                USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


                                              Part 2

        JOINT HAZARDOUS MATERIAL STEERING COMMITTEE, DUTIES OF
      PARTICIPANTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH EUROPEAN DANGEROUS GOODS
                         REGULATIONS AND FORMS

7. Joint Hazardous Material Steering Committee (JHMSC).
   7.1. The USAFE Command DGA will represent the USAFE Command in the JHMSC. The
   JHMSC consists of Command DGAs, functional experts, and lawyers. The purpose of the
   JHMSC is:
   7.2. To coordinate all activities related to policy of HM/HW movements throughout Europe.
   The JHMSC will meet at least twice per year to formally review the U.S. Forces HM/HW
   movement program and analyze progress of the implementation.
   7.3. To analyze and evaluate changes to Host Nation laws and policies on HM/HW and
   determine applicability to the U.S. military forces in Europe.
   7.4. To recommend joint changes to the U.S. Forces HM/HW movement policy in Europe
   and to ensure harmonized and synchronized guidance in coordination with the various
   stakeholders.
   7.5. To brief commanders on requirements applicable to Hazardous Material Movement
   Safety in Europe and synchronization with various stakeholders.
   7.6. To conduct an annual training workshop for IDGAs and functional experts concerned
   with HM/HW movements focusing on regulation changes prior to implementation by the
   European Nations.
8. Explanation of duties of participants by function.
   8.1. General. All safety requirements identified by Environmental, Safety and Occupational
   Health (ESOH) programs must be met when working with hazardous material/waste.
   Personnel executing duties identified in hazardous material regulations must ensure measures
   are taken, based on predictable risk that prevent accidents/incidents in conjunction with the
   movement of hazardous material/waste. HM movement regulations do not repeat general
   safety requirements listed in other regulations, i.e. safety, health or environment. Therefore
   personnel assuming duties described in HM/HW movement regulations must be trained and
   qualified in all safety requirements applicable to the traffic safety and exposure of HM/HW
   to public areas. The following describes activities identified in HM/HW movement
   regulations: preparation of hazardous material/waste for movement, i.e. identification,
   packaging, documentation, route planning and movement control; movement activities, i.e.
   loading, un-loading, filling, carrying, transporting, load securing, load distribution,
   unitization, consolidation, proper transport asset, driver identification and qualification,
   security; receiving of hazardous material/waste, i.e. positive inbound clearance, unloading,
   discharging, receiving inspection, unpacking, safety data sheet review.
        8.1.1. If a participant identifies a discrepancy the process must be stopped until the
        discrepancy is corrected. Especially if the discrepancy presents a risk, i.e. a spill caused
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                       23


     by an accident during preparation, loading, movement, receiving or unpacking activities,
     and if the risk cannot be eliminated immediately the following actions must be taken:
         8.1.1.1. On base: Follow installation emergency response procedures.
         8.1.1.2. Off base: the driver must notify or initiate notification of the closest
         authority, and provide the required information.
     8.1.2. If an incident impacting safety or security is identified the following applies:
         8.1.2.1. Security: the carriage/movement is not allowed until proper security is
         provided and guaranteed. Ch205 DTR and the applicable mode specific security
         requirements must be reviewed to determine proper security.
         8.1.2.2. Safety: If a violation of safety requirements is identified, the movement can
         only be continued if all safety requirements are complied with, or if a local authority
         directs and approves movement to a secure holding area.
  8.2. Ordering Party of the Shipper: The Ordering Party of the shipper is an agency which
  executes duties identified in HM/HW regulations without seeing or handling the HM/HW.
  This can be a receiver, requesting a hazardous item from a supply source, a contracting
  agency, or an agency acting on behalf of the shipper. For the purpose of this regulation we
  focus on the contracting agency or agency acting on behalf of the shipper.
     8.2.1. The ordering party will ensure:
         8.2.1.1. When contacting the carrier or contacting the consignor on behalf of the
         shipper the information listed in section 5.4.1.1. and 5.4.1.2. ADR/RID/ADN,
         5.4.1.4.1. and 5.4.1.4.2. IMDG Code Amendment 35-10, 8.1.6. IATA-DGR, and
         AFMAN 24-204 (IP) Table 17.1. Key 11 through 15 is provided in writing or by
         traceable electronic means by the shipper in the sequence as described. In case of
         hazardous waste ensure the identification for HW is also provided IAW the respective
         mode regulation in the proper sequence. Alteration of the sequence is not authorized.
         8.2.1.2. A trained UDGA within the ordering party agency reviews the information
         provided by the shipper for conformance with the planned mode regulation. In case
         of non-conformance the ordering process must be stopped until the shipper provides
         the correct information in writing or by traceable electronic means.
         8.2.1.3. A trained UDGA within the ordering party agency will ensure the
         information provided by the shipper is correctly transferred to the ordering document
         and is provided in writing or by traceable electronic means to the carrier or consignor.
            8.2.1.3.1. The information regarding special routing requirements is provided to
            the carrier or consignor. If the shipper does not provide information regarding
            special routing requirements, a trained UDGA within the ordering party will
            verify if a special routing requirement exists.
         8.2.1.4. Information regarding the gross mass of Limited Quantities is provided to
         the carrier or consignor in writing as part of the order.
         8.2.1.5. Information regarding the number of packages of Exempted Quantities is
         provided to the carrier or consignor as part of the order.
24                                                               USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


  8.3. Shipper: The shipper is the organization or individual owning the hazardous
  material/waste. The shipper initiates the transport process. This function is responsible for
  the proper identification of the HM/HW to the ordering party of the shipper, or to the
  consignor according to the classification criteria of the respective mode of transportation. If
  the shipper acts also as a consignor the shipper will provide the information to the carrier. In
  particular the shipper will:
     8.3.1. Provide the information in the sequence as listed in section 5.4.1.1. and 5.4.1.2.
     ADR/RID/ADN, 5.4.1.4.1. and 5.4.1.4.2. IMDG Code Amendment 35-10, 8.1.6 IATA-
     DGR, and AFMAN 24-204 (IP) Table 17.1 Key 11 through 15, as applicable, in writing
     or by traceable electronic means.
     8.3.2. Not delegate the proper identification to a third party. The document used to
     provide the information will contain the name and signature of the person generating the
     information for the selected movement mode. The person must have at least TE training
     accomplished for that movement mode. Therefore the shipper must ensure the proper
     Safety Data Sheet (SDS) is on file which provides the transport information valid for
     Europe in Section 14 and the European OSHA information in Section 15.
     8.3.3. Contact the CDGP engineering office if the proper information cannot be obtained
     from the SDS available to the shipper.
     8.3.4. Provide the information regarding special routing requirements to the ordering
     party, carrier or consignor in writing or by traceable electronic means.
     8.3.5. Provide the information regarding the gross mass of Limited Quantities to the
     ordering party, carrier or consignor in writing or by traceable electronic means.
     8.3.6. Provide information regarding the number of packages of Exempted Quantities to
     the carrier or consignor in writing or by traceable electronic means.
         8.3.6.1. Examples of DOD shippers are: supply activities, units storing their own
         material, depots and repair facilities, and units purchasing items that are of ―free
         onboard origin.‖ In case of a unit organic move, the shipper may also be a consignor.
  8.4. Consignor: The consignor is a unit or third party acting for the shipper entering the
  HM/HW into the public-traffic area. Example: servicing transportation officer. The
  consignor will:
     8.4.1. Only hand over HM/HW consignments for transport which conform to DOD,
     EUCOM, and USAFE instructions regarding preparation, movement, and implementation
     of European agreements and regulations applicable to HM/HW for US Forces.
     8.4.2. With the exception of identification and classification of the item execute all
     shipper responsibilities.
     8.4.3. Ensure high-risk HM/identified in ADR, Chapter 1.10; and 49 CFR Part 172.800,
     and DOD 4500.9-R, Ch 205, are moved under an approved security plan.
     8.4.4. Will ensure the next receiving point, i.e. consignee, Aerial/Water Port of
     embarkation (APOE/WPOE) or railhead is informed IAW the security plan and IAW the
     positive inbound clearance (PIC) procedures listed in AER 55-355 (USAFEI 24-201),
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                  25


     Joint Transportation and Traffic Management Para 3.9., or, upon implementation, IAW
     the appropriate EUCOM instruction.
     8.4.5. Submit information required for the instructions in writing to the carrier by
     traceable means in writing or electronically.
  8.5. Transshipping through Aerial/Water Ports of Debarkation (APOD/WPOD) and
  railheads: Personnel assigned to APODs, WPODs and railheads also execute
  shipper/consignor duties. For the onward movement by truck or rail the unit operating the
  APOD/WPOD or railhead enters into the shipper role in the intermodal chain for the
  movement by road IAW ADR and for movement by rail IAW RID. APOD/WPOD/railhead
  functions will:
     8.5.1. Ensure ADR and RID instructions for onward movement are complied with.
     8.5.2. Ensure a qualified UDGA assigned to these functions reviews the information
     required by ADR/RID 5.4.1.4.1. and 5.4.1.4.2. to ensure proper transfer to the
     truck/railroad manifest.
     8.5.3. Ensure the information shippers must provide is given to the carrier, ordering
     party, or consignor as described in Para 8.3.1.
     8.5.4. Ensure a DOD certified Interim Hazard Classifications (IHCs), DOT or DOD
     approved waivers and deviations or certificates of equivalency are validated IAW the
     process established by ECJ4; they will ensure the material does not move until the
     HNCA approval is available.
  8.6. Certifier: When required, a certifier must review and declare conformance to a HM
  regulation. The movement of HW must also conform to HM movement regulations. In this
  case the HM movement regulations take precedence over HW regulations regarding
  identification, marking, labeling, packaging, and authorization for movement. The certifier
  executes commander duties and therefore must be on appointment orders by his commander
  identifying the scope of the appointment. Before the appointment order can be issued, each
  certifier must accomplish certification training and must be in the possession of a valid
  training certificate. Appointment orders can only list the scope of responsibility
  commensurate to the training certificate of the individual. A person qualified to certify
  HM/HW moving by military air cannot be appointed to certify HM/HW movement by road,
  rail, or water, unless he/she can provide a valid training certificate for the respective
  movement mode. The appointment of certifiers assigned to USAFE units will be
  documented on USAFE Form 67A, Certifier for Dangerous Goods and Hazardous Waste
  Movements Appointment Order – Mode Air, and USAFE Form 67B, Certifier for Dangerous
  Goods and Hazardous Waste Movements Appointment Order – Mode Surface, as
  appropriate.
     8.6.1. In the HM/HW movement preparation process there are four different certification
     steps prior to releasing the HM/HW into public areas. The appointed certifier must
     review and document each step.
         8.6.1.1. Identification and classification of the item.
         8.6.1.2. Packaging certification (including marking and labeling).
26                                                                USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


         8.6.1.3. Load distribution and load securing certification including marking and
         identification of the transport asset.
         8.6.1.4. Verification of content of movement documents certifying all mode
         requirements for moving the HM/HW are met, i.e. proper preparation, identification,
         load securing, authorized transport asset, qualified driver, routings, diplomatic
         clearance, deviations, special permits, and security plan. In this context the customs
         document is also a document certifying compliance to regulations applicable to US
         Forces in the country entered by the movement asset. The certifier will use checklists
         to ensure all requirements are checked prior to releasing HM/HW into public traffic.
         The DGAs will assist in developing the proper checklists. NOTE: There may be
         four different organizations executing certifier duties in the U.S. Forces, but it could
         also be done by just one organization. It is therefore strongly recommended that
         responsibilities and duties be specified by unit operating instructions and where
         required by individual job descriptions. In any case certifiers must be properly
         trained prior to assuming certifier duties and be appointed by their unit commander as
         a certifier. The appointment order must conform to the format described in this
         instruction. If a qualified and appointed certifier is deployed to another unit, the
         appointment of the home station commander is not valid. The unit commander of the
         deployed unit must provide his own appointment orders to the certifier, showing
         proper delegation of his responsibility to the appointed person.
  8.7. Carrier: This is the organization that transports the goods. The carrier executes the
  transport asset owner, dispatcher, and operator duties. Based on information provided by the
  shipper, ordering party or consignor the carrier will:
     8.7.1. Provide the proper transport asset, qualified operators, instructions in writing,
     firefighting equipment and additional equipment identified in the instructions in writing
     or by the mode regulation.
     8.7.2. Ensure vehicle crew understand the instructions in writing and are capable and
     enabled to execute emergency response.
     8.7.3. Ensure all activities concerning routing, border-crossing clearances, transport-asset
     registration, marking and posting transport assets where required, and load securing are
     properly executed.
     8.7.4. Ensure all required documentation is on board the transport asset and is placed in a
     prominent place in the driver cab so in case of accident it can be easily found.
     8.7.5. Ensure documentation not belonging to the load is stored in a way so it is not
     accessible.
     8.7.6. Ensure drivers moving HM/HW IAW table 1.1.3.6., Ch. 3.4. or Ch. 3.5. ADR
     receive a safety briefing based on the instructions in writing for this item.
     8.7.7. Ensure a copy of the safety briefing is filed with the movement documents.
  8.8. Driver: The driver described in this regulation is an individual authorized and qualified
  to operate the transport asset loaded with HM/HW on public roads according to the ADR.
  Depending on the quantity of HM and HW, the driver may or may not need an ADR driver
  certificate. If the quantity is below the threshold limit listed in ADR, paragraph 1.1.3.6., or is
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                        27


  a limited quantity IAW ADR, Ch 3.4., or exempted quantity IAW ADR, Ch 3.5., the driver
  does not need an ADR certificate. To operate a vehicle loaded with quantities not exceeding
  those limitations, the driver must receive a safety briefing either by the carrier (preferred) or
  by the loader. Proof of this briefing must be kept on file. The driver will:
     8.8.1. Ensure the load, load distribution, and load securing rules are complied with IAW
     the safety principles for HM/HW movement.
     8.8.2. Ensure the transport asset, container and/or tank, as appropriate, are properly
     marked and display the proper hazard placards and warning plates corresponding to the
     HM/HW carried on board. If the asset is empty and unclean the placards, plates and
     markings must correspond to the HM/HW last carried.
     8.8.3. Comply with bad weather rules in the country transited. Military vehicles loaded
     with HM/HW will not be operated in public traffic areas on road condition amber or red.
     8.8.4. Ensure compliance with security and parking rules.
     8.8.5. Ensure when operating US military vehicles, all documentation regarding
     diplomatic clearance and transport movement release approvals are carried on board the
     vehicle.
     8.8.6. Ensure compliance with traffic safety rules, routing, and mixed-loading
     regulations.
     8.8.7. Ensure packages are not moved, if they are damaged, are incomplete, or are
     leaking HM/HW.
     8.8.8. Ensure compliance with tunnel regulations IAW 8.6.4 ADR.
     8.8.9. If executing filler duties on tank vehicles, ensure the maximum fill grade or fill
     rate is not exceeded, and the authorized volume per tank or tank compartment is not
     exceeded.
     8.8.10. Ensure, if the maximum permissible fill degree is unknown, 90 percent of the
     volume of the tank will not be exceeded during filling.
     8.8.11. Ensure all valves and inspection openings are closed and sealed after filling.
     8.8.12. Ensure the provisions for operating tanks are complied with. In public areas
     these are subsection 4.3.2.3 ADR, except 4.3.2.3.1, 4.3.2.3.3 sentence four and five and
     4.3.2.3.6 sentence one-, and subsections 4.3.2.4, 4.3.3.3.2 and 4.3.3.3.3, Section 4.3.5
     special provision TU 13 and TU 15, all ADR.
     8.8.13. Ensure the additional provisions applicable to drivers listed in ADR Ch. 8.5 are
     complied with.
     8.8.14. Ensure the transport asset, container and/or tank, as appropriate, are not marked
     or show hazard placards and warning plates, if the asset is empty and clean.
     8.8.15. Ensure to carry out the appropriate measures listed in the instructions in writing.
     8.8.16. Ensure, if required, a fumigation warning label is displayed IAW ADR 5.5.2.2
     8.8.17. Ensure during movement:
28                                                              USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


         8.8.17.1. All movement documents listed in ADR subsection 8.1.2.1 and 8.1.2.2.
         letters a through c are carried;
         8.8.17.2. The inspection certificates of approval IAW subsection 6.8.2.4.5 sentence 2
         are carried;
         8.8.17.3. The ADR driver certificate of training is carried;
         8.8.17.4. The fire-extinguishers IAW subsection 8.1.4.1 and 8.1.4.2 ADR are carried;
         8.8.17.5. The equipment listed in Section 8.1.5 ADR is carried. If additional
         equipment not listed in the ADR is identified by the consignor ensure this equipment
         is also on board of the vehicle.
         8.8.17.6. Ensure protective equipment and additional equipment is accessible and
         serviceable;
         8.8.17.7. Copies of Waivers and deviations are carried;
         8.8.17.8. All documentation is provided to HN authorities upon request.
     8.8.18. Ensure compliance with surveillance provisions IAW DTR Vol. II, Ch 205, and
     ADR Ch 8.4 and 8.5
     8.8.19. Ensure hazardous residue adhered to the outside of tanks or containers is
     removed prior to departure.
     8.8.20. Ensure not to consume alcohol, drugs or medication which can impact the driver
     fitness.
     8.8.21. Ensure connections and hoses are empty during transport.
     8.8.22. Ensures the vehicle/tank is grounded during filling/un-filling.
     8.8.23. Ensure compliance with provisions listed in Ch 8.3 ADR regarding passengers,
     fire-extinguishers, opening of packages, portable lights, smoking, engine during loading
     or unloading, emergency brakes, and electrical connections.
  8.9. Consignee: The consignee is the receiving organization IAW the movement
  contract/order. If there is no movement contract/order the function taking possession of the
  hazardous material upon arrival executes the consignee duties, the unloader and receiver
  duties. The consignee, unloader and receiver can be different organizations within the US
  Forces. The consignee will:
     8.9.1. Communicate with the carrier dispatch system and the consignor shipment planner
     to ensure restrictions and limitations at the consignee‘s location are followed.
     8.9.2. Provide Positive Inbound Clearance (PIC) to the movement control system.
     8.9.3. Ensure the PIC includes instructions concerning gates, opening hours, storage and
     handling capability, routing on base, safety at the off-load site, types of HM and HW that
     cannot be handled, and escort service.
     8.9.4. Ensure all unloader functions are executed properly.
     8.9.5. Ensure support to the security forces guarding the gate for verification of
     driver/crew identification and training certificates upon arrival IAW the PIC information.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                        29


     8.9.6. Ensure, if discrepancies are found, the driver may not be allowed to enter the
     installation until the carrier provides verification.
     8.9.7. Ensure the consignment is dispatched and if required escorted to the proper unload
     site following the routes identified for the movement of hazardous material within an
     installation or garrison.
     8.9.8. Ensure qualified unloaders verify the documentation and the load, and in case of
     discrepancy, annotate the movement documents and have the driver co-sign the
     discrepancy.
     8.9.9. In case of discrepancy ensure an appropriate discrepancy report is initiated
     according to DOD 4500.9-R.
     8.9.10. If required, ensure a receiving report is sent to the shipper regarding arrival of the
     vehicle, railcar, plane, or container.
  8.10. Loader: The loader is the organization or individual that physically loads the goods
  onto or into the vehicle, railcar, plane, or container. The loader will:
     8.10.1. Ensure all safety principles that apply to damaged packages, markings, load
     distribution, load securing, mixed loading, and documentation are followed.
     8.10.2. Before loading a transport asset, ensure the asset is authorized for the load by
     checking the registration documentation.
     8.10.3. Ensure the vehicle registration has not expired or does not expire during the
     transport.
     8.10.4. Ensure the driver has a set of the instructions in writing in all required languages
     provided by the carrier. If the driver cannot show the proper instructions in writing, the
     loader will provide the instructions to the operator of the transport asset.
     8.10.5. Ensure through the carrier that the driver understands the instructions, is capable
     execute them by checking that the protective equipment and additional equipment
     required by ADR is on the vehicle, accessible and serviceable.
     8.10.6. Ensure before releasing the asset, it is properly marked and secured, and all the
     required movement documents are on the vehicle in a prominent place in the driver
     cabinet so in case of accident they can easily be found.
     8.10.7. Check and ensure and to avoid confusion after an accident, that movement
     documents not applicable to the load are stored by the operator so they are not accessible.
     8.10.8. Ensure the vehicle is not released until all discrepancies are corrected.
     8.10.9. Ensure drivers moving HM/HW IAW table 1.1.3.6, Ch. 3.4 or Ch. 3.5 ADR
     receive a safety briefing based on the instructions in writing for this item.
     8.10.10. If the safety briefing was not provided by the carrier, ensure a copy of the safety
     briefing is filed with the movement documents.
  8.11. Filler: The filler has the same responsibilities as the loader. Additionally, the filler
  must ensure:
30                                                              USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


     8.11.1. The material filled into tanks or receptacles are compatible with the tank and
     receptacle skin.
     8.11.2. The tank information in the tank-registration document is checked and is valid.
     8.11.3. The last or next tank inspection date on the tank plate mounted on the outside of
     the tank is checked and is still valid.
     8.11.4. The inspection period is not expired before filling and will not expire during the
     movement.
     8.11.5. The tank code matches the tank code listed in the ADR/RID.
     8.11.6. The identification of receptacles is permanently affixed to the outside of the
     receptacle and matches the identification of the authorized UN packaging specifications
     listed in the mode regulation.
     8.11.7. When applicable, the receptacle inspection period has not expired and the
     packaging code complies with the code listed in the applicable packaging rule.
  8.12. Unloader: The unloader is the organization/or individual that removes a container,
  bulk container, tank container, or demountable tank from a vehicle/chassis, or removes
  packed hazardous material, intermediate containers, or small demountable tanks from our out
  of a vehicle or container, or discharges dangerous goods from a tank, or bulk container. The
  unloader, consignee, and receiver of the hazardous material can be different organizations
  within DOD. In particular the unloader will:
     8.12.1. Ensure only the hazardous material listed on the movement document is unloaded
     by comparing the information of the transport document and the identification on
     packages, containers, tank, or vehicle.
     8.12.2. During unloading check if any of the packages, containers, tanks, or vehicles are
     damaged to the extent which would endanger the unloading operation. In this case stop
     the unloading until appropriate measures are taken to allow the continuation of a safe
     unloading operation.
     8.12.3. Comply will all relevant safety requirements concerning unloading.
     8.12.4. Immediately following the unloading of the tank, container or vehicle;
         8.12.4.1. Remove all hazardous residue which have adhered to the outside surface of
         the vehicle, tank or container during unloading.
         8.12.4.2. Close all valves and inspection openings
     8.12.5. Ensure the prescribed cleaning and decontamination of the vehicle, tank or
     container is carried out.
     8.12.6. Ensure the container, tank or vehicle once completely cleaned or decontaminated
     no longer displays markings or placards conforming to Ch 5.3 ADR/RID.
     8.12.7. At deployment sites ensure hazardous residues on tanks is nullified by qualified
     personnel or qualified contractors. Non-ADR certified R11/C300/C301 re-fuelers can
     only return to home station if the nullification of hazard process, draining and purging, is
     conducted and certified.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                                      31


        8.12.8. If nullification gear is not available to the deployed unit, ensure contracts for
        nullification of hazards are in place before the deployment begins.
    8.13. Packer: The packer is the individual responsible for ensuring the goods are properly
    packed according to the mode selected for the movement. This includes the type pack,
    marking, and labeling. Only qualified packers are allowed to pack hazardous material. The
    packers must have completed the DOD packaging training and must be instructed on the
    packaging rules of the various mode regulations. Packers do not need appointment orders,
    but require a training certificate. The packers ensure the packing and marking regulations for
    packages are complied with as follows:
        8.13.1. Limited quantities:
            8.13.1.1. Rail, Road, Inland Water IAW 3.4.1, 3.4.3 through 3.4.6, and 3.4.8.1 and
            3.4.8.2, ADR/RID/ADN.
            8.13.1.2. Air: 5.0.3 IATA-DGR; 19.3 AFMAN 24-204 (IP)1
            8.13.1.3. Sea: 3.4 IMDG
        8.13.2. Excepted Quantities:
            8.13.2.1. Rail, Road, Inland Water IAW 3.5.1 through 3.5.4, ADR/RID/ADN
            8.13.2.2. Air: 2.6., 5.02.4., 5.0.2.6.1., 5.0.2.8., 5.0.2.9, and 5.0.2.11.1a) IATA DGR;
            19.2., AFMAN 24-204 (IP)1
            8.13.2.3. Sea: 3.5. IMDG
        8.13.3. The provisions on use and leak proof test for pressurized receptacles, packages
        including Intermediate Bulk Container (IBC) and large packages (LP):
            8.13.3.1. Rail, road, Inland Water IAW sections 4.1.1. through 4.1.9., and
            subsections 6.2.6.3.2.2.1. and 6.2.6.3.2.2.3. ADR/RID and the applicable special
            provisions in Ch 3.3. ADR/RID/ADN.
            8.13.3.2. Air: Sections 5 and 6, IATA-DGR; 1.6. and Attachment 3, AFMAN 24-
            204 (IP) 1
            8.13.3.3. Sea: 4.1.1. through 4.1.9., Ch 6.1. through 6.6., and applicable special
            provisions in Ch 3.3., IMDG.
        8.13.4. Compatibility provisions for packing:
            8.13.4.1. Road, Rail, Inland Water: IAW subsection 1.1.4.2.1.2. ADR/RID if the
            movement precedes or follows an air or sea movement; and section 4.1.10. ADR/RID
            8.13.4.2. Air: 9.3.2 IATA DGR; Atch 18 AFMAN 24-204 (IP) 1
            8.13.4.3. Sea: Ch 7.2. IMDG
        8.13.5. Provisions regarding labels and marking



1
  Applies to MILAIR movements in countries which ratified or accept STANAG 3854; for other countries follow
the Foreign Clearance Guide instructions.
32                                                               USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


         8.13.5.1. General: all military goods must be marked and labeled IAW MIL STD
         129, current version;
         8.13.5.2. Road, Rail, Inland Water: IAW subsection 1.1.4.2.1.1. if the movement
         precedes or follows an air or sea movement;
         8.13.5.3. Overpacks:
             8.13.5.3.1. Road, rail, inland water: IAW 3.4.7 (LQ), subsection 3.5.4.3. (EQ),
             sections 5.1.4, 5.2.1., and 5.2.2 and the applicable special provisions in Ch 3.3,
             ADR/RID/ADN
             8.13.5.3.2. Air: 5.0.1.5. IATA-DGR; Para 1.10., A3.1.4., A3.1.7., A3.1.11.,
             A3.2.2.12., A3.3.7., A6.3., A6.5., A6.10., A6.18., A9.9.2., A11.10., A12.2.,
             A12.10., A13.20., A14.3. (et Seq.), A14.4.2.4., A15.2., A15.3., A15.4.5.3.4. and
             A15.4.5.3.5, Table A17.1., A19.2.8., A20.1., A28. and applicable special
             provisions in table A4.2. AFMAN 24-204 (IP) 1
             8.13.5.3.3. Water: IAW 3.4.2 (LQ), 3.5.2 (EQ), 5.1.2, 5.2.1 and Special
             provisions in Ch 3.3. IMDG.
             8.13.5.3.4. Ensure the content in an overpack is properly secured.
     8.13.6. Ensure the use of overpack for movement over public roads comply with the
     provisions in subsection 5.1.2. ADR, for rail with the provisions of 5.1.2. RID, for air
     with the provisions in 5.0.1.5. IATA-DGR, or Para 1.6. AFMAN 24-204 (IP) 1. If items
     are consolidated in an overpack, the packer will ensure the required additional markings
     and labels are applied.
  8.14. Receiver: Receiver is the ultimate consignee, the unit which is unpacking and
  using/consuming the hazardous material. In the U.S. military system the unloader, consignee
  and receiver can be assigned to different units. If consignee and consumer are the same, all
  consignee and unloader duties described above must be executed. If the consignee is a third
  party forwarding the item to supply or the unit, the receiving section of the supply activity or
  unit is responsible for the following:
     8.14.1. Ensure the consignor is informed in the event of a non-compliance with any limit
     in the ADR/RID/ADN to radiation level contamination.
     8.14.2. Review the Safety Data Sheet for compliance with the additional Hazard
     Communication (HAZCOM) requirements in Europe described in Attachment 8.
     8.14.3. Ensure if the SDS is non-compliant to HAZCOM instructions listed in
     Attachment 8 the proper SDS compliant to the HAZCOM requirements in Europe is
     obtained from the manufacturer, or vendor. If the manufacturer or vendor is a DOD
     supplier from within the US, the supplier may not be set up for responding to
     international requirements. In this case the supply activity accounting for the material
     may contact the CDGP Engineering Office for assistance.
     8.14.4. Supply activities serving off-base customers or providing lateral support must
     review the item packaging (inner and outer), labeling and marking specification in
     relation to European HM rules for transportation before placing the items on the shelf. If
     the item packaging configuration does not conform to the European HM and HW
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                         33


     packaging and marking regulations, the item must be repacked or over-packed and
     properly marked and labeled before releasing it to an off-base/off-post customer.
     8.14.5. Local DGAs monitoring the receiver function need to ensure written procedures
     and training are in place for assessing and applying proper packing for European HM
     and HW packaging instructions. In case of non-compliance receivers need to ensure the
     package is marked as non-compliant so it is not released into public traffic. If for
     technical reason an adjustment is not possible, the local DGA will initiate action through
     the IDGA for obtaining the appropriate waivers to allow movement of the item in the
     non-compliant configuration.
  8.15. Hazardous Material Pharmacy, and HW Storage Areas (Ammunition, Gas, Fuel, and
  Waste), base maintenance units:
     8.15.1. Each section storing HM and HW must ensure the items are kept in the proper
     package, and are properly marked, labeled and segregated.
     8.15.2. If HM is turned over to a customer or service agency in conjunction with off-base
     movement the unit turning over the item must have personnel qualified in the certifier,
     shipper, consignee, packer and loader function. The unit picking up items must ensure
     the personnel assigned to pick up HM is qualified IAW the carrier, loader, and driver
     function. In most cases the ADR training will suffice.
     8.15.3. If air, rail, or sea is involved, the unit should work through the EMCS.
     8.15.4. In the case of HW/Clinical Waste (CW), contractors may pick up the goods. It is
     not recommended to move HW through off-base routes to HW collection points by
     military vehicles/personnel. If so all transportation and traffic safety rules, qualifications,
     and routing permits apply in this case. In some of our host countries special licenses and
     vehicle requirements apply. The preferred method is to arrange pick up of HW/CW by
     qualified contractors.
        8.15.4.1. The contractor can execute loader, packer, consignor, and carrier duties.
        Contracting officers and Waste Generators involved in the statement of work should
        clearly identify which of the functions listed in this instruction are delegated to the
        contractor. If delegated, the waste generator is still liable to ensure the contractor
        complies with the duties listed in the contract and in this regulation.
        8.15.4.2. The identification of the HW/CW cannot be delegated. The person
        executing the shipper function of ―identification‖ of the HW/CW, on behalf of the
        owning unit, will remain liable for the proper identification until final destination.
        USAFE Form 1930, Hazardous Waste Profile Sheet, may be used to identify
        HW/CW. See attachment 13 for a description of the form. If other formats are used,
        ensure those formats are equivalent to that provided by USAFE 1930. Ordering
        parties of the unit, i.e. DLA-DISPOSITION SERVICES, the base HW manager, or a
        traffic manager are not liable for this information. The ordering parties need to keep
        a copy of document provided by the unit showing the identification of the HW IAW
        the movement regulation (normally ADR, but also IMDG. The name of the person
        (printed) and signature of the person identifying the HW/CW IAW the movement
        regulation must legible and on the document turning over the item to the HW disposal
        system. Based on the original identification all other participants will act, i.e. pack,
34                                                              USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


         mark, label, load security, protection (security), vehicle type, routing, etc. If the
         identification provided by the unit was wrong and the activities following the shipper
         are based on the wrong identification they will not be liable for any consequences, i.e.
         accidents, incidents. Breaching administrative act accusations will also be deferred to
         the shipper in this case.
         8.15.4.3. All agencies between the unit and the contractor need to comply with the
         ordering party duties listed in this instruction.
         8.15.4.4. If applicable, personnel responsible for HM and HW storage areas must
         also ensure there is a valid security plan. Whether a security plan is required can be
         determined from 49 CFR, part 172.800, ADR Ch 1.10., or specific service
         instructions. If an accident/incident happens during a loading or unloading activity as
         part of a movement process, and if these accidents/incidents meet the criteria IAW
         Attachment 2 the local IDGA and the CDGP must be informed as outlined in Para
         3.4. and 4.9. This is in addition to any other reporting requirements, i.e. IAW safety
         or environmental regulations.
  8.16. Units using or consuming HM. Units consuming HM for their mission will ensure
  they have a movement plan for deploying HM and disposing HW. In a production process
  HM not covered under HM transportation regulations may become regulated as part of the
  contamination or transformation process during production. Therefore units must have a
  safety plan to prevent mishaps, contamination, injuries, or damages when using HM.
  Additionally these units must have personnel qualified as Technical Expert to identify the
  HW IAW HM regulations. The local DGA will provide this training. Additionally the
  UDGA must ensure proper operating instructions are in place to ensure all HM/HW
  regulations applicable to shippers are complied with. If the unit moves the HM/HW
  organically all functions listed in this instruction must be available, properly trained and,
  where required, appointed on orders. The UDGA will ensure the unit has the proper MSDSs
  on file, the proper risk management documented, and all required hazard communication
  applicable to the unit‘s HM/HW inventory installed.
  8.17. Duties of several participants:
     8.17.1. The loader, filler, carrier, unloader, receiver, or consignee will ensure the
     accident incident reporting IAW Attachment 2 of this instruction is initiated through
     their local DGA.
     8.17.2. The carrier, consignor, and consignee for movements by rail, road or inland water
     will take the following actions in case of a non-compliance with any limit applicable to
     radiation levels or contamination:
         8.17.2.1. Road movement: inform the nearest authority for road safety. Normally
         that is the traffic police which can be reached through the standardized European
         emergency phone system. The number is 112.
         8.17.2.2. Rail movement: the host country railroad agency. The emergency number
         112 can also be used.
         8.17.2.3. Inland Water: the host country inland water authority. The emergency
         number 112 can also be used.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                      35


     8.17.3. All participants in road, rail, and inland water traffic must comply with the
     security provisions outlined in Ch. 1.10. ADR/RID/ADN. US Forces comply with 49
     CFR part 172.800 and if Ch. 1.10. ADR/RID/ADN is more stringent, with that chapter.
     8.17.4. Ordering party of the shipper, shipper, consignor, packer, loader, filler, carrier,
     consignee and receiver functions involved in the movement of the so called ―High
     Consequence dangerous goods‖ must implement and apply security plans compliant to 49
     CFR Para 172.800, Para 172.802, and Para 172.820. Additional or more stringent
     requirements listed in subsections 1.10.3.2.2. through 1.10.5. and table 1.10.5.
     ADR/RID/ADN must be incorporated into the security plan also. The ECI 4305.01,
     Traffic Management within the EUCOM AOR, Enclosure C, Para 11 b is substituted as
     follows:
        8.17.4.1. The consignor will inform the consignee on the movement of high
        consequence items by providing TCN, UN number, Proper Shipping Name, Hazard
        labels, packing group, type pack, pieces, weight, cube, net qty of HM or NEW,
        license plate number or registration number of carrier transport asset, copy of the
        picture identification, i.e. passport, travel passport, military ID card, planned arrival
        time.
        8.17.4.2. The consignee will provide information to the security forces managing the
        large vehicle inspection station (LVIS). If the LVIS is not used, the information will
        be provided to the gate indentified by the consignee to the carrier as part of the
        positive inbound clearance (PIC) process identified in ECI 4305.01.
        8.17.4.3. Gate personnel will check the information upon arrival of the vehicle and
        will only clear the vehicle onto the military installation if PIC information and
        vehicle/crew match.
        8.17.4.4. In case of discrepancy the consignee will clarify with the carrier if the crew
        or vehicle was replaced and the movement is legitimate.
        8.17.4.5. If the carrier does not confirm the deviation the consignee and security
        forces will implement appropriate responsive actions identified in the security plan.
        8.17.4.6. The security plan will not be shared with agencies or personnel outside of
        the organization. Review of security plans is authorized by official US government
        surveillance agencies, i.e. IG teams or functional inspectors.




                                          JOHN T. RAUSCH, Colonel, USAF
                                          Chief Logistics Division
 36                                                           USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) 49, Transportation
DTR 4500.9-R Part II, Defense Travel Regulation – Cargo Movement, November 2004 available
at: http://www.transcom.mil/j5/pt/dtr.cfm
AFPD 23-1, Materiel Management Policy and Procedures, 10 March 2006
AFMAN 24-204(I), Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments, 15 April 2007
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFI 33-360_USAFESUP, Publications and Forms Management, 6 December 2007
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
List of International Agreements
ADN, European Agreement Concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by
Inland Waterways
ADNR, European Agreement Concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by
Inland Waterways-Rhein
ADR, European Agreement Concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by
Road
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) Safety Series, No. 115, International Basic Safety
Standards for Protection Against Ionizing, Radiation and for Safety of Radiation Sources
ICAO-TI, Technical Instructions for the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air
List of national regulations implementing European Agreements
Germany
Dangerous Good Transportation Law (GGBefG)
Ordinance for Dangerous Goods Safety Advisors (GBV)
Ordinance for moving Dangerous Goods over public highways and by rail (GGVSE)
Policy concerning General Waivers (GGAV)
Policy concerning interpretation of ADR/RID and the GGVSE (RSE)
Air Traffic Law (LuftVG)
Explosive Law (SprengStG)
Ordinance for moving Dangerous Goods by Air (GGVLuft)
Ordinance for moving Dangerous Goods by Sea (GGVSee)
Ordinance for movement of Dangerous Goods on Inland Water Ways (GGVBin)
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                          37


Bundeswehr Regulations for the Transportation of Dangerous Goods by Military Aircraft
(RLGGLuft)
Bundeswehr Guideline governing the regulations on the transport of dangerous goods by road
and rail (RLBwGGVSE).
General Bundeswehr waivers applicable to the US Forces
Bundeswehr Directive Concerning the Regulation on Transportation of Hazardous Cargo by
Seagoing Vessels (RLBwGGVSee)
Bundeswehr Regulation concerning Surveillance of the Dangerous Goods/Hazardous Waste
Movement program of Military Organizations in Germany (RLGGAufsicht)
Regulations concerning road checks of dangerous goods vehicles (GGKontrollV)
Bundeswehr Regulations concerning Dangerous Goods Driver Training (RLGGFS)
Policy concerning Transportable Pressurized Equipment (OrtsDruckV)
Note: Above list refers to ordinances and regulations issued by the German Federal Ministry of
Transportation and the Federal Ministry of Defense. These regulations apply to foreign forces
stationed in Germany and to visiting forces. Additionally the German states issued
corresponding regulations which provide additional rules on states or communities. Route
planners and DGAs must be aware of those details when executing HM/HW movements in
Germany. There are many additionally laws referring to dangerous goods movements which
must be observed depending on situation. Examples are production laws, environmental laws,
general safety laws, radiation safety law, etc. The CDGA and IDGA have a list of additional
laws and regulations applicable in Germany for review.
United Kingdom (U.K.)
The Carriage of Dangerous Goods and Use of Transportable Pressure Equipment Regulations
2009; Statutory Instrument (SI) 1348 or the most current version if this version is superseded.
The Controls on Dangerous Substances and Preparations (Amendment) Regulations 2007; SI
1596, or most current version.
The Road Tunnel Safety Regulations 2007, SI 1520, or most current version.
Emergency Action Code Listing 2007, EAL, or most current version.
Defense Movements and Transport Regulations Volume 4b, Dangerous Goods by Road, Rail and
Sea, Joint Service Publication (JSP) 800
Defense Movement and Transport Regulation JSP 800 Volume 4a, Dangerous Goods by Air
Regulations.
JSP 815, Defense Environment and Safety Management
Department for Transport (DfT) Guidance Notes
Health and Safety Enforcement Policy Statement, HSC 15
Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) (EC 1709/2006)
Note: Above list refers to ordinances and regulations issued or recognized by the Department
for Transport and the Ministry of Defense of the U.K. These regulations apply to foreign forces
 38                                                              USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


stationed in the U.K. and to visiting forces. U.K. national traffic rules have differences to
international movement rules, i.e. vehicle placards. Enforcement is executed by the Health and
Safety Executive, the British Forces, the police and the Vehicle and Operator Service Agency
(VOSA).
Belgium
Movement and Transports, ACOT-APG-MOVTPT-SMXX-001
ADR Controls of military vehicles (FL/AT-EXII and EX III), ACOT-SPS-KEUR-SMSP-301
Special Military Procedures for Hazardous-Material Transportation by Air, ACOT-SPS-
AFMAN-SMSP-310
Supplementary Directives Regarding ADR (Hazardous-Material Transportation on the Road),
ACOT-GID-ADR-SMSP-330
Supplementary Directives Regarding RID (Hazardous-Material Transportation by Rail). ACOT-
GID-RID-SMSP-316
Supplementary Directives Regarding ADN(R) (Hazardous-Material Transportation on Inland
Waterways), ACOT-GID-ADN-SMSP-326,
Supplementary Directives Regarding IATA (Hazardous-Material Transportation, by Air),
ACOT-GID-IATA-SMSP-341,
Supplementary Directives Regarding IMDG (Hazardous-Material Transportation by Sea),
ACOT-GID-IMDG-SMSP-321
ADR Drivers, ACOT-GID-CADR-SMSP-331
Hazardous-Material-Transportation Reports, ACOT-GID-RAPORT-SMSP-371
Hazardous-Material-Transportation Training, ACOT-GID-FMN-SMSP-372
Note: Above list refers to ordinances and regulations issued by the Belgian Ministry of Defense.
These regulations apply to foreign forces stationed in Belgium and to visiting forces. Belgian
national traffic rules for military transports recognize ADR as the governing regulation.
However, these rules provide for additional restrictions and specific regulations. Therefore U.S.
military organizations operating in Belgium must be familiar with and follow these rules. These
regulations replace the IF 24 which still may be listed in some U.S. regulations.
Italy
Ministerial Decree (DM) 15 May 97, Implementation of Attachment A and B of ADR
DM 3 May 01, Ground Transportation of Dangerous Goods of Military Forces
DM 3 Mar 1997 Uniform procedures for controls of ground transportation of dangerous goods
civilian and military
n.6106 Manual of Military Transportation of Dangerous Substances and Products includes
waivers for military entities.
Note: Above list concerning regulations applicable to U.S. military movement of DG and HW
in Italy is not complete. The listing will be updated by future changes to this regulation as
translations are received.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                  39


Spain
Agreement between the Kingdom of Spain and the U.S., 1988
Note: The information in this appendix is changing constantly. Review the USAFE command
DGA CoP on the AF portal for the most current available information.
Forms Prescribed:
USAFE Form 60, Command/Installation Dangerous Goods Advisor Annual Report
USAFE Form 61, Accident/Incident Report on Occurrences During the Carriage of Dangerous
Goods/Hazardous Waste
USAFE Form 62, Quarterly Dangerous Goods (DGA) Activity Report
USAFE Form 63, Command Dangerous Goods Advisor (CDGA)/Installation Dangerous Goods
Advisor (IDGA) Monitoring Report
USAFE Form 66, Dangerous Goods Advisor (DGA) Appointment Order
USAFE Form 67A, Certifier for Dangerous Goods and Hazardous Waste Movements
Appointment Order – Mode Air
USAFE Form 67B, Certifier for Dangerous Goods and Hazardous Waste Movements
Appointment Order – Mode Surface
USAFE Form 68, Certificate of Approval for Vehicles carrying certain Dangerous Goods;
USAFE Form 69, Vehicle inspection checklist – Prerequisite for the ADR Inspection and
specific requirements.
USAFE Form 1930, Hazardous Waste Profile Sheet,
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AOR—Area of Responsibility
APOD—Aerial Port of Debarkation
CA—Competent Authorities
CDGA—Command Dangerous Goods Advisor
CW—Clinical Waste
DG—Dangerous Goods
DGA—Dangerous goods adviser
DGR—Dangerous Goods Regulation
DLA—Defense Logistics Agency
DoD—Department of Defense
DoT—Department of Transportation
 40                                                        USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


CoP—Community of Practice
DTS—Defense Transportation System
DLA—DISPOSITION SERVICES -
ECIP—European Compliance Inspection Program
EX—explosives
FL—flammable
FMS—Foreign Military Sales
HNSA—Host Nation Surveillance Agency
HM—Hazardous Material
HQ—-Headquarter
HVCP—Hazardous Material Vehicle Certification Permit
HW—Hazardous Waste
IATA—International Air Transport Association
ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization
ID—Identification
IDGA—Installation Dangerous Goods Advisor
IHC—Interim Hazardous Classification
IMDGC—International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code
JHMSC—Joint Dangerous Goods Steering Committee
Kg—Kilogramm
l—Liter
MAP—Military Assistance Program
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NLT—Not later than
OI—Operating Instruction
PAX—Passenger
PIC—-Positive Inbound Clearance
RID—European Regulation Concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Rail
SOP—Standard Operating Procedure
U.K.—United Kingdom
U.N.—United Nations
U.S.—United States
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                   41


UDGA—Unit Dangerous Goods Advisor
UDO—Unit Deployment Officer
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USAREUR—United States Army in Europe
WPOD—Water Port of Debarkation
 42                                                               USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


                                          Attachment 2
                                     ACCIDENT REPORT

A2.1. General: This accident report will be completed by the Installation Dangerous Goods
Advisor on USAFE Form 61. Upon completion this accident report will be submitted to the
Command DGA. The CDGA will prepare the official report for release to the Host Nation
Competent Authority and must not include classified information.
A2.2. Reason: The accident report is required when a serious accident or incident takes place
during loading, filling, carriage or unloading of HM/HW on the territory of a European Nation.
The Unit and Installation DGA monitoring personnel involved in loading, filling, shipping,
receiving, or transporting HM/HW shall ascertain that a report conforming to the model
prescribed on USAFE Form 61 is completed and submitted to the Command DGA. The
Command DGA is responsible to submit this report to the Competent Authority concerned with
the investigation of the accident/incident.
   A2.2.1. Details: An accident/incident is subject to report if dangerous goods were released
   or if there was an imminent risk of loss of product, if personal injury, material or
   environmental damage occurred, or if the authorities were involved and one or more of the
   following criteria has/have been met:
       A2.2.1.1. Personal injury means an occurrence in which death or injury directly relating
       to the dangerous goods carried has occurred, and where the injury:
          A2.2.1.1.1. requires intensive medical treatment;
          A2.2.1.1.2. requires a stay in hospital of at least one day; or
          A2.2.1.1.3. results in the inability to work for at least three consecutive days.
       A2.2.1.2. Loss of product means the release of dangerous goods:
          A2.2.1.2.1. of transport category 0 or 1 in quantities of 50 Kilograms (kg) / 50 liter
          (l) or more;
          A2.2.1.2.2. of transport category 2 in quantities of 333 kg / 333 l or more; or
          A2.2.1.2.3. of transport category 3 or 4 in quantities of 1 000 kg / 1 000 l or more.
       A2.2.1.3. The loss of product criterion also applies if there was an imminent risk of loss
       of product in the above-mentioned quantities. As a rule, this has to be assumed if, owing
       to structural damage, the means of containment is no longer suitable for further carriage
       or if, for any other reason, a sufficient level of safety is no longer ensured (e.g. owing to
       distortion of tanks or containers, overturning of a tank or fire in the immediate vicinity).
       If dangerous goods of Class 6.2 are involved, the obligation to report applies without
       quantity limitation.
       A2.2.1.4. Loss of Class 7 material: In occurrences involving Class 7 material, the
       criteria for loss of product are:
          A2.2.1.4.1. Any release of radioactive material from the packages;
          A2.2.1.4.2. Exposure leading to a breach of the limits set out in the regulations for
          protection of workers and members of the public against ionizing radiation (Schedule
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                   43


        II of IAEA Safety Series No. 115 – "International Basic Safety Standards for
        Protection Against Ionizing Radiation and for Safety of Radiation Sources"); or
        A2.2.1.4.3. Where there is reason to believe that there has been a significant
        degradation in any package safety function (containment, shielding, thermal
        protection or criticality) that may have rendered the package unsuitable for continued
        carriage without additional safety measures.
  A2.2.2. Additional Explanations:
     A2.2.2.1. Material damage or environmental damage means the release of dangerous
     goods, irrespective of the quantity, where the estimated amount of damage exceeds
     50,000 Euros.
     A2.2.2.2. Damage to any directly involved means of carriage containing dangerous
     goods and to the modal infrastructure shall not be taken into account for this purpose.
     A2.2.2.3. Involvement of authorities means the direct involvement of the authorities or
     emergency services during the occurrence involving dangerous goods and the evacuation
     of persons or closure of public traffic routes (roads/railways) for at least three hours
     owing to the danger posed by the dangerous goods. If necessary, the competent authority
     may request further relevant information.
     A2.2.2.4. USAFE Form 61 is the Model for report on occurrences during the carriage of
     dangerous goods.
 44                                                               USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


                                          Attachment 3
                                DGA MONITORING REPORT

A3.1. Overview. The DGA Monitoring Report (USAFE Form 63) is required to document
CDGA and IDGA surveillance activities. While UDGAs must review every HM/HW movement
originating in their unit by using checklists, CDGAs and IDGAs will periodically conduct
documented surveillance in organization located within their area of responsibility. Periodic
means at least once per year. The CDGA/IDGA may determine additional visits may be required
to organizations that showed discrepancies or need additional on-site training. The IDGA will
submit a quarterly activity report to the CDGPM using USAFE Form 62. The CDGPM will use
the quarterly updates to brief HQ USAFE A4/7 and Commander, United States Air Forces in
Europe (USAFE/CC).
A3.2. Processing the DGA Monitoring Reports: The CDGA or IDGA will document findings
and recommended corrections in the format listed on USAFE Form 63 and forward it to the
Commander of the organization that was found discrepant. The Commander of the organization
will ensure the discrepancy is corrected within the period identified by the CDGA or IDGA. The
CDGA or IDGA will sent a courtesy copy of the report to Wing Safety Officer. If the
discrepancy is not corrected the CDGA/IDGA will elevate the report to the next higher level for
resolution. Reports will be kept on file for five years. These reports are for internal use only and
not releasable to host nation surveillance agencies. The CDGA/IDGA will prepare a summary
report on a quarterly basis using USAFE Form 62. This second report is releasable to the Host
Nation surveillance agency upon request to proof and document the monitoring activities of the
responsible Commander and appointed DGA.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                    45


                                          Attachment 4
                            DUTIES BY FUNCTION AND MODE

A4.1. Responsibilities by Function and Mode that can be sanctioned (references:
ADR/RID/IMDG/ICAO-TI).

Table A4.1. Responsibilities by Function and Mode.

 Function:                                                          Road Rail Water   Air

 Shipper/Consignor:

 Are advance shipping documents sent to carrier, loader of
                                                                     X    X
 ships or planes? 1.4.2.1.1 ADR/RID

 Is the movement authorized? 1.4.2.1.1 ADR/RID                       X    X

 Are entries in the movement document regarding exemptions?          X    X

 Are the packages, tanks, and transport assets authorized for the
                                                                     X    X
 movement?

 Are the proper markings on packages, tanks, and vehicles?           X    X

 Is the Competent Authority notified on Class 7 movements?           X    X

 Is a copy of the proper certification for Class 7 items
                                                                     X    X
 available?

 Upon request, are proper documents provided to Government
                                                                     X    X
 Surveillance/Enforcement Agencies?

 Are Hazard Placards displayed on empty, uncleaned, unpurged
                                                                     X    X
 tanks and large receptacles?

 Are Orange Warning Placards displayed on empty, uncleaned,
                                                                     X    X
 unpurged tanks and large receptacles?

 Are uncleaned, unpurged tanks sealed as if they were full?          X    X

 Is a shipping document provided to the carrier?                     X    X

 Are competent authority certificates provided to the carrier on
                                                                     X    X
 class 7 items?
46                                                                USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Function:                                                          Road Rail Water   Air

Are copies of container packing certificate, additional
                                                                    X     X
information, authorizations provided?

Are warning signs for fumigated load compartments
                                                                    X     X
displayed?

ADR agreements and exemptions                                       X

Is the carrier notified on contents of Instructions in Writing?
                                                                    X
Is Carrier informed (in advance) on the total gross mass of
                                                                    X
LQ?

Are Instructions in Writing attached to the movement
document?                                                                 X
Are environmentally hazardous substance marks displayed on                X
empty,uncleaned.unpurged tanks and large receptacles?

Are placards,orange colored warning plates and
                                                                          X
environmentally hazardous substance markings displayed?

Are the regulations for express cargo obeyed?                             X

Are general safety and security regulations complied with?          X     X

Shipper/Consignor/Carrier and Consignee:

Are measurements in place and complied with in case
                                                                    X     X
radiation limits are exceeded?

Is there an investigation on the cause of exceeding radiation
                                                                    X     X
limits?

Is the Government Competent Authorities notified?                   X     X

Is a routing requested and provided?
                                                                    X
Are the provisions concerning carriage in packages observed?

Are the proper certificates of competent authorities available?     X

Is a Security Plan implemented for high risk dangerous
                                                                    X     X
goods/hazardous waste?
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                    47


 Function:                                                          Road Rail Water   Air

 Is the shipping mode permit available from the competent
                                                                     X
 authority?

 Ordering Party of the Shipper/Consignor

 Is the required information for the movement document
                                                                     X    X
 concerning identification of the item provided?

 Are Limited Quantities properly identified?                         X    X

 Is a Security Plan implemented for high risk HM/HW?                 X    X

 Are the routing requirements identified?                            X    X

 Ordering Party of the Carrier

 Are delivery requirements/limitations to the airfield
                                                                                      X
 communicated?

 Carrier Representative

 Can the HM/HW be accepted for movement?                                       X

 Is the load of the packaged HM/HW properly planned?                           X

 Representative of the distributor of DG (i.e. supply facilities)

 Is only authorized and properly packed DG released?                           X

 Are movement documents provided?                                              X

 Is the proper overpack used?                                                  X

 Are portable tanks properly filled and sealed?                                X

 Are mixed loading (compatibility) regulations complied with?                  X

 Are only correctly marked, placarded and identified packages,
 Intermediate Bulk Containers (IBC), large packaging‘s and                     X
 portable tanks released?
48                                                                 USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Function:                                                           Road Rail Water   Air

Are the movement documents properly transferred (transport
                                                                                X
chain)?

Consignor (Person acting on behalf of shipper)

Is the consignor declaration completed; is the signature legible
                                                                                      X
(applies to loader, carrier, and freight agent)?

Are personnel trained to meet International Atomic Energy
                                                                                      X
Agency (IATA) qualification standards?

Are security duties identified and security plans implemented?                        X

Are access authorizations controlled to sensitive areas?                              X

Are passenger sections and military air terminals displaying
instructions on which items are prohibited from carrying on                           X
planes and in the airport?

Are all packaging regulations met?                                                    X

Carrier

Are the DG authorized for movement?                                             X

Is a proper stow plan available for loading DG aboard ships?                    X

Are the HM/HW authorized for movement?                               X     X

Is the date of next inspection still valid?
                                                                     X     X
(truck/railcar/tank/IBC, certain packages))

Is there a load distribution plan considering total weight
                                                                     X     X
permit, axle weight, and structure of chassis?

Are there spills, cracks, equipment deficiencies?                    X     X

Are the rail cars properly placarded?
Are vehicles equipped with proper Hazards Placards and               X     X
Warning Signs?
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                    49


 Function:                                                          Road Rail Water   Air

 Are procedures in place to notify the shipper/consignor in case
                                                                     X    X
 radiation limits are exceeded during movement?

 Is information provided by the consignor concerning non-
                                                                     X    X
 compliance to limitations?

 Is the required routing permit carried on the transport unit        X

 Are tank vehicle regulations complied with?
                                                                     X
 Are Hazard Placards displayed on empty, uncleaned, unpurged
                                                                     X
 tanks and large receptacles

 Do drivers understand the Instructions in Writing?                  X

 Are the movement regulations for HM/HW in bulk and tank
                                                                     X
 complied with?

 Are the limitations for explosives, organic peroxides and self
                                                                     X
 reactive substances complied with?

 Does the driver carry movement documents, special
 equipment, test, and registration certificates or exemptions and    X
 waivers?

 Are the drivers properly trained?                                   X

 Conditions are obeyed for not releasing a portable tanks,
                                                                     X
 4.2.3.8f

 Is the railroad agency correctly notified?                               X

 Are instructions in writing available for high frequency
                                                                          X
 movements of DG?

 Is information provided to railroad and/or train personnel IAW
                                                                          X
 RID

 If safety is jeopardized, do you stop the movement as soon as
                                                                          X
 possible?

 Are movement documents and Instructions in Writing carried
                                                                     X    X
 aboard the vehicle or train?
50                                                                   USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Function:                                                             Road Rail Water   Air

Does each crew member carry an ID?                                           X

Do you compose and provide accident reports to the IDGA
                                                                       X     X    X     X
and CDGA?

Is the tank and vehicle registration still valid?                      X     X

Is the load discrepant? (Load securing, spills, damages, load
                                                                       X     X
distribution, etc.)

Do you stop movement if an item is found non-compliant to
                                                                       X     X
regulations?

Are the fire extinguishers serviceable and is the inspection still
                                                                       X
valid?

Is the tank authorized for the contents?                               X

Do tank vehicles and portable tanks comply with ADR design,
                                                                       X
marking and identification regulations?

Are out of sequence inspections conducted when the tank was
                                                                       X
impaired as a result of repair, alteration, or accident?

Is the proper load securing equipment provided to the driver?          X

Is the miscellaneous equipment described in ADR available
                                                                       X
and serviceable?

Is the technical design for vehicles described in ADR
                                                                       X
complied with?

Is the prohibition on smoking, flames and fire complied with?          X

When required and during parking, are the vehicles shaded
from sunlight and all sources of heat, and are they placed in          X
adequately vented areas?

When required, are open or vented vehicles/containers used?            X
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                    51


 Function:                                                          Road Rail Water   Air

 When closed vehicles/containers are used for items requiring
 open or vented vehicles/containers, is the closed
                                                                     X
 vehicle/container marked ―warning, no ventilation, open with
 caution‖?

 Is the routing request processed? (routing is required for all
                                                                     X
 military owned HM/HW)

 Is the movement conducted on an approved routing
                                                                     X
 (transportation movement release)?

 Are the routing instructions provided to the driver?                X

 For items requiring Host Nation routing permits, is the
 document properly annotated when the movement is to the             X
 next air port or water port?

 In case vehicles loaded with DG move on rail, is the
                                                                     X
 reservation confirmation provided to the driver?

 Are procedures in place to notify the shipper/consignor in case
                                                                     X    X
 radiation limits are exceeded during movement?

 Are procedures in place to analyze the cause of exceeding
                                                                     X    X
 radiation limits?

 Are procedures in place to notify competent authorities on
                                                                     X    X
 incidents where radiation limits are exceeded?

 Are personnel in charge of movement of high consequence
 HM/HW properly trained in security and are security plans           X    X
 implemented?

 Filler

 Are only authorized goods moved?                                    X    X

 Is the technical condition of the tank checked prior to filling?    X    X

 Are tanks only filled with authorized and compatible goods?         X    X

 Are the tanks properly closing so there are no spills?              X    X
52                                                                  USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Function:                                                            Road Rail Water   Air

Is the inspection date still valid?                                   X     X

Is the tank filling degree, the net and gross mass of the tank is
                                                                      X     X
complied with?

After filling is it ensured the tank closures are hermetically
                                                                      X     X
sealed to prevent leakage?

Is dangerous residue of the goods filled into the tank removed
                                                                      X     X
prior to departure?

Is the compatibility ensured if different items are filled into
adjoining compartments of tanks (tanks with multiple                  X     X
compartments)

Are the regulations for emptying, purging and venting
                                                                      X     X
complied with?

Are the proper shipping names and HM descriptions provided?           X     X

Do the portable tanks used comply with ADR regulations?               X     X

Are the filling regulations for bulk items complied with?             X     X

Is the driver briefed on the HM/HW?                                   X

Are the filling regulations for tanks complied with?                  X     X

Are the hazard placards, markings and warning plates
                                                                      X
displayed?

Are the Instructions in Writing provided to the driver?
                                                                      X
Is the driver aware of hazardous identification numbers?

Are the loading regulations complied with?                            X

Is the prohibition on smoking complied with?                          X

Is the prohibition on combustible heaters complied with?              X

If the driver is the filler, is the driver properly trained?          X
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                   53


 Function:                                                         Road Rail Water   Air

 Do the vehicle carrying tanks comply with ADR regulations?         X

 Is the movement stopped when the allowed filling degree is
                                                                    X    X
 exceeded?

 Are the hazard placards, railcar warning labels, orange
                                                                         X
 warning placards, and other required markings applied?

 Are regulations concerning electrostatic discharge obeyed?         X    X

 Are the personnel involved in High Consequence HM/HW
 trained in security measurements and are security plans            X    X
 implemented?

 Is an accident/incidents report provided to the UDGA/IDGA
                                                                    X    X
 in case of a spill during filling?

 Crew Member

 Is the HM authorized for movement?                                                  X

 Are prohibited items carried or on board the aircraft?                              X

 Is the crew assisting in detecting hidden dangerous goods?                          X

 Are accidents involving HM/HW immediately reported to the
                                                                                     X
 competent authority, and the IDGA/CDGA?

 Are the crew members trained on security regulations
 concerning high consequence dangerous goods and are                                 X
 security plans implemented?

 Other personnel participating in movement operations

 Is the personnel properly trained in security regulations
 applicable to high consequence dangerous good and are              X    X    X      X
 security plans implemented?

 Are security plans implemented by the ordering party of
                                                                    X    X    X      X
 shippers/consignors, loaders, fillers, carriers, and receivers?

 Are the training records kept on file for 5 years?                 X    X    X      X
54                                                                  USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Function:                                                            Road Rail Water   Air

Are personnel properly trained IAW Section 1.3                        X     X

Are training documents IAW Section 1.3.3 kept on file for 5
                                                                      X     X
years?

Are personnel properly trained on risk involving fumigation?          X     X

Are drivers moving loads below the threshold limitation or
                                                                      X     X
IAW CH 3.4 and 3.5 briefed IAW 8.3.2 ADR

Consignee

Are the HM/HW received without delay and is the movement
                                                                      X     X
checked for compliance with regulations?

Are hazard placards and orange warning plates removed?                X     X

Are regulations concerning fumigated transport assets obeyed?
Are the transport assets cleaned, drained, purged,                    X     X
decontaminated, as applicable, after off loading?

Is the consignor/shipper informed on radiation exceeding the
                                                                      X     X
limits?

Is the driver informed on procedures valid for operations at the
                                                                      X
place of delivery? (route, gate, ID, behavior, safety rules, etc)

Are transport assets properly cleaned prior to returning them to
                                                                      X     X
the carrier?

Are the prohibitions on smoking, fire, and flames obeyed?             X     X

Are the compatibility and load securing regulations obeyed?           X     X

Is the regulation regarding shading from sunlight and all
                                                                      X
sources of heat, and adequately vented areas complied with?

Are the regulations concerning open or vented vehicles
                                                                      X
complied with?
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                55


 Function:                                                      Road Rail Water   Air

 If material requiring movement in open or vented vehicles is
 moved in closed vehicles are the regulations regarding          X
 warning and identification complied with?

 Are precautions in place when mixing food stuff and animal
                                                                 X
 feed and HM/HW?

 Was a positive inbound clearance provided in response to the
                                                                 X
 routing request?

 Are measurements in place to respond to radiation exceeding
                                                                 X    X
 the limits?

 Are procedures in place to analyze the cause of radiation
                                                                 X    X
 exceeding the limits?

 Are the consignor/shipper, competent authorities, packer,
 loader, carrier, unloader and the IDGA/CDGA informed when       X    X
 radiation limits are exceeded?

 Are security plans implemented for high consequence
 dangerous goods?                                                X    X
 Are off-loading safety regulations complied with?

 Driver

 Are damaged packages refused for movement?                      X

 Are competent authorities and the IDGA/CDGA notified on
                                                                 X
 incidents and accidents during movement?

 Are routing permits complied with?                              X

 Are overloads refused for movement?                             X

 Is the fill degree and fill temperature (when applicable)
                                                                 X
 complied with?

 Is the truck stopped when safety is jeopardized?                X

 Are all closures hermetically sealed?                           X
56                                                              USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Function:                                                        Road Rail Water   Air

Are the vehicle operating procedures complied with?               X

Are the hazard placards displayed?
                                                                  X
Are hazard placards displayed on empty, uncleaned, unpurged
                                                                  X
tanks and large receptacles?

Are hazard placards removed or covered when empty, drained
                                                                  X
and purged?

Are the orange warning placards displayed?                        X

Are the orange warning placards removed or covered when
                                                                  X
empty, drained and purged?

Are the measures contained in the Instructions in Writing
                                                                  X
applied and understood?

Are the proper documents and equipment aboard the vehicle
and are they provided upon request for checking/inspecting by     X
the DGA or official authorities?

Is the ADR driver certificate valid and available?                X

Are the passenger rules complied with?                            X

Are the proper hand lamps available?                              X

Is the parking brake applied during halts?                        X

Are the vehicle surveillance regulations complied with?           X

Is dangerous residue removed prior to departure?                  X

Is the driver intoxicated?                                        X

Are loading and load securing regulations complied with?          X

Are off-loading safety regulations complied with?                 X

Are the transport assets cleaned, drained, purged,
                                                                  X
decontaminated, as applicable, after off-loading?
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                   57


 Function:                                                         Road Rail Water   Air

 Are regulations concerning filling, emptying, and electrostatic
                                                                    X
 discharge complied with?

 Are the prohibitions on smoking, fire, and flames obeyed?          X

 Are the precautions concerning food stuff/animal feeds and
                                                                    X
 HM/HW complied with?

 During halts, are the regulations regarding shading from
 sunlight and all sources of heat, and adequately vented areas      X
 complied with?

 Where required, are open or vented vehicles used, or are the
                                                                    X
 closed vehicles in that case properly marked?

 In case of piggy back rail traffic, is the reservation
                                                                    X
 confirmation available?

 Airport Operator

 Are passengers made aware of prohibited HM?                                         X

 Is the personnel involved in moving HM properly trained in
                                                                                     X
 security regulations and are security plans implemented?

 Are measurements in place (infrastructure, controls, ID) to
                                                                                     X
 enhance security in areas where HM is handled?

 Are accidents involving dangerous goods reported to the
                                                                                     X
 competent authority and the IDGA/CDGA?

 Are approved waivers by authorized CAs in place when
                                                                                     X
 deviating from ICAO-TI/IATA-DGR?

 Are shipper responsibilities complied with when entering HM
 into public air space, or when moving HM by truck to final                          X
 destination?

 Are the shipper‘s declarations correct and complete?                                X
58                                                               USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Function:                                                         Road Rail Water   Air

Do the HM comply with IATA-DGR(civilian)/AFMAN 24-
204 (military), Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military
                                                                                    X
Air Shipments and are goods not regulated by these regulations
offered separately (not mixed)?

Is unitized HM properly prepared, packed and marked IAW
                                                                                    X
IATA-DGR/AFMAN 24-204, as appropriate?

Are personnel concerned with DG movement trained
according to the requirements listed in IATA-DGR and                                X
AFMAN 24-204?

Are measures in place to deal with leaking, damaged DG of
                                                                                    X
infectious or radioactive material?

Are the compatibility regulations complied with and are
additional foreign nation requirements obeyed, where                                X
applicable (i.e. for Civil Reserve Fleet (CRAF) aircraft)?

Vehicle Owner

Are the fire-extinguisher frequently inspected?                    X

Are the vehicles equipped with the proper warning placards?        X

Is the strength of the tank skins compliant with ADR
                                                                   X
regulations?

Are vehicles and receptacle compliant to ADR regulations
                                                                   X
relating to equipment, design, and identification?

Are out of cycle ADR inspection done on vehicles involved in
                                                                   X
accidents or after repair?

Is load securing equipment available?                              X

Is the miscellaneous equipment listed in ADR available?            X

Pilot in Command

Are all necessary documents on board the aircraft?                                  X
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                 59


 Function:                                                       Road Rail Water   Air

 Does the pilot know the location of HM on board? (table 2.3A
                                                                                   X
 IATA-DGR)

 Is written notification (signed by the loadmaster) provided
                                                                                   X
 concerning DG loaded on board the aircraft?

 Is the pilot familiar with the emergency response procedures
                                                                                   X
 for the DG loaded on the aircraft?

 Is the plane and load compliant to safety rules?                                  X

 Are competent authorities notified immediately about
                                                                                   X
 incidents/accidents involving DG?

 Loader

 Are only authorized HM/HW released to the carrier?               X    X

 Are the DG packages only released when undamaged?
                                                                  X    X
 Are provisions concerning carriage in packages observed?

 Are light packages properly sealed and secured?
 Are partially discharged packages moved in compliance with       X    X
 HM regulations?

 Are empty and uncleaned packages moved in compliance with
                                                                  X    X
 DG regulations?

 Are empty and uncleaned packages and tanks properly
 marked?
                                                                  X    X
 Are authorized numbers of packages according to section
 3.5.5, ADR/RID/ADNR/AND not exceeded?

 Are placards and labels applied properly?
 Are marking requirements IAW sections 3.4.10. -3.4,12.           X    X
 ADR/RID observed?

 Are containers serviceable and authorized for movement?          X    X

 Are warning signs displayed on fumigated containers or tanks?    X    X
60                                                               USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Function:                                                         Road Rail Water   Air

Is the driver briefed on the HM/HW transported?                    X

Are the Instructions in Writing provided to the driver?            X

Is the vehicle compliant to ADR regulations?                       X

Are the loading and handling regulations observed?                 X     X

Is the loader properly informed on the DG to enable
conformance to DG regulation checks on packaging, marking,         X     X    X     X
labeling, and condition (damage) of the DG?

Are the packages approved for the movement mode?                   X     X    X     X

Is the prohibition on smoking, fire and flames obeyed?             X     X    X     X

During loading, are the regulations regarding shading from
sunlight and all sources of heat, and adequately vented areas      X
complied with?

If applicable, are the regulations regarding venting observed?     X     X

Are the precautions regarding mixing DG, food or animal
                                                                   X     X
feeds observed?

Is the loading personnel properly trained on security measures
when handling high consequence dangerous goods and is a            X     X
security plan implemented?

Is the routing checked and available (Transportation
                                                                   X
Movement Release (TMR) number)?

Packer

Are the regulations regarding limited and excepted quantities
                                                                   X     X
obeyed?

Are the regulations concerning sealing and closures of HM
packages complied with?
                                                                   X     X    X     X
Are packages consolidated in overpacks properly secured to
prevent any movement during carriage?
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                   61


 Function:                                                         Road Rail Water   Air

 Are the mixed packaging rules observed?
                                                                    X    X
 Are marking and labeling requirements concerning carriage in
 a transport chain including maritime or air carriage complied      X    X    X      X
 with?

 Are overpacks properly labeled and marked?                         X    X    X      X
 Are packages properly marked and labeled?                          X    X    X      X

 Commander

 Is a DGA trained and appointed?                                    X    X    X      X

 Are the duties of the DGA clearly described conforming to the
                                                                    X    X    X      X
 DGA ordinance?

 Are directions of Host Nation Surveillance Agencies complied
                                                                    X    X    X      X
 with?

 Is the annual report completed and submitted to the Command
                                                                    X    X    X      X
 DGA NLT 15 January each year?

 Are monitoring activities properly documented and reported
                                                                    X    X    X      X
 by the IDGA?

 Is ensured accident reports are composed and submitted to the
                                                                    X    X    X      X
 CDGA in a timely manner?

 Is the annual report, accident report, and records on
 trained/appointed personnel kept on file for five years and are    X    X    X      X
 these documents available for Host Nation Surveillance?

 Is appointed personnel and other responsible personnel
                                                                    X    X    X      X
 properly trained?

 Is sufficient budget made available to keep the Base DGA
                                                                    X    X    X      X
 program current?

 Is the DGA informed and consulted on planned HM/HW
                                                                    X    X    X      X
 movement activities?
62                                                                 USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Function:                                                           Road Rail Water   Air

Is the DGA permitted access to information relating to
HM/HW movement programs and systems to analyze
                                                                     X     X    X     X
procedures, to determine causes of accidents, to determine
deficiencies, and to monitor corrective actions?

DGA

Are regulations and operating instructions published to ensure
                                                                     X     X    X     X
HM/HW movement rules are complied with?

Does the DGA maintain records on monitoring activities
including date, time, name of the person and processes               X     X    X     X
monitored?

Is the DGA composing and submitting the accident report in
                                                                     X     X    X     X
accordance with USAFE I 23-104?

Are records on monitoring activities, training, and reports kept
                                                                     X     X    X     X
for five years?

Is the DGA frequently monitoring units involved in HM/HW
                                                                     X     X    X     X
movement?

Is the DGA providing consultation conforming to HM/HW
                                                                     X     X    X     X
movement rules on planned HM/HW movement programs?

Are the IDGA and UDGAs composing the annual report by 15
                                                                     X     X    X     X
Dec each year for review by the Commander?

Is the DGA developing procedures that ensure compliance
                                                                     X     X    X     X
with HM/HW movement provisions?

Is the DGA consulting to the Commander on equipment and
vehicle procurement to ensure technical provisions required by       X     X    X     X
DG regulations are met?

Are procedures in place to ensure equipment used for
                                                                     X     X    X     X
loading/off-loading vehicles comply with HM regulations?
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                  63


 Function:                                                        Road Rail Water   Air

 Is the DGA checking on training of personnel involved in
 HM/HW movements ensuring quality of training meets HM
 regulations, and only trained personnel are appointed to
                                                                   X    X    X      X
 execute self-responsible duties in conjunction with HM/HW
 movements; are training and appointments contained in the
 Personnel Information File?

 Is the DGA ensuring proper emergency response procedures
 are in place to deal with accidents, incidents involving          X    X    X      X
 HM/HW?

 Is the DGA analyzing procedures and accidents/incidents to
                                                                   X    X    X      X
 identify deficiencies and corrective measures?

 Is the DGA monitoring the implementation of corrective
                                                                   X    X    X      X
 measures?

 Is the DGA reviewing status of third party organizations
                                                                   X    X    X      X
 executing duties in conjunction with HM/HW movements?

 Is the DGA monitoring the quality of third party organizations
                                                                   X    X    X      X
 ensuring Command DG program standards are met?

 Is the DGA reviewing unit OIs for compliance with HM/HW
                                                                   X    X    X      X
 movement rules?

 Is the DGA ensuring the risk involved in moving and handling
 HM/HW is communicated to all personnel involved, and is           X    X    X      X
 this information visualized in the appropriate work area?

 Is the DGA periodically reviewing the required documentation
 to ensure it is correctly composed and provided to the            X    X    X      X
 appropriate functions?

 Is the DGA reviewing the safety related equipment that needs
 to be carried on board the transport assets (serviceability,      X    X    X      X
 completeness, etc.)?

 Are procedures in places to ensure compliance with loading
                                                                   X    X    X      X
 and off-loading safety regulations?

 UNLOADER:
64                                                                 USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Function:                                                           Road Rail Water   Air

Is the load protected from exposure to sun, external heat
                                                                     X     X
sources, and is the off-loading area sufficiently vented

Is the non-smoking rule, prohibition of open fire rule, obeyed?      X     X

Are all safety rules applicable to off-loading and handling of
                                                                     X     X
HM/HW complied with?

Are the correct shipments off-loaded?                                X     X

Is hazardous residue removed and cleaned up?                         X     X

Are all closing devices properly secured?                            X     X

Are hazard placards and warning plates removed if completely
                                                                     X     X
off-loaded, or adjusted, if partially off-loaded?

Are fire fighting instructions complied with and is firefighting
                                                                     X     X
equipment available?

Are instructions in place to report accidents/incidents to the
                                                                     X     X
UDGA/IDGA?
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                                                            65


                                                        Attachment 5
                                           TRAINING REQUIREMENTS

A5.1. General: The following table identifies the training requirements under the CDGP.
Personnel involved in processes containing HM/HW must be trained prior assuming duties for
executing these processes. If training was not completed, personnel will only work under the
direct supervision of a trained person. Functions requiring a training certificate are identified
herein.

Table A5.1. List of Training Courses
Type Training                         Course No                                        Subcategory
                                                                                       IDGA (modular - contact CDGPM for
IDGA/UDGA                             DG XXXX-015                                      specifics)
                                      DG XXXX-02                                       UDGA (between 3 and 7 days)
Command Dangerous Goods
Workshop (annual)                     DG XXXX-15                                       CDGA/IDGA/ Certifier/TE (3 days)
ADR driver                            DG XXXX-03                                       Basic (2.5 Days)1
                                      DG XXXX-04                                       Tank (1 day)
                                      DG XXXX-05                                       Ammo (1 day)
                                      DG XXXX-06                                       Class 7 (1 day)

ADR driver refresher                  DG XXXX-03A                                      2.5 days

ADR/RID Certifier                     DG XXXX-07                                       Complete (7 days)
                                      DG XXXX-07 A (HC); replace HCwith type hazard
                                      classes required                                 Partial. Specify: 2 (min. 3 days)
                                                                                       Complete (1 day of course 07 is completed,
IMDG Certifier                        DG XXXX-08                                       otherwise 7days)
                                                                                       Partial. Specify: 2
                                      See AFJMAN 24-204 IP, Attachment 25 for course
AFMAN 24-204 IP                       No                                               none

ICAO-TI/IATA-DGR                      DG XXXX-09 (contracted course)                   Category 6
                                                                                       Specify: 3
Technical Expert Hazardous/Clinical
Waste                                 DG XXXX-10A                                      ADR (3 days)
                                      DG XXXX-10B                                      IMDG (3 days)
                                                                                       Downstream User

ADR/RID/IMDG                          DG XXXX-11                                       Complete (9 days)
Technical Specialist ADR, RID, or
IMDG                                  DG XXXX 14                                       Tailored to unit need
Hazardous Material Management
(Globally Harmonized System/CLP);
CDGAs, IDGAs, HAZMART,
CEANs                                 DG XXXX-12                                       2 - 5 days

Load Securing 4                       DG XXXX-13                                       2 days
1
  the basic course is always required; i.e. hazard class 3 and 9; or hazard class 1, 2, 4.1,6.1, 8 and 9; 3 specify
                                           2

category: i.e. Cat 1; 2; 6; 4 Can be requested in conjunction with ADR driver basic tng module; 5 the XXXX will be
replaced by the calendar year; 6as of 1 July 2011 DGAs appointed for the mode air must accomplish cat 6 IATA
DGR training.
    66                                                                 USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


A5.2. Training of participants: Persons assigned to functions listed in part 2 of this instruction
shall receive training in the requirements governing the proper identification, documentation,
preparation including packaging and safe movement appropriate to their responsibilities and
duties. Training requirements specific to security of HM/HW identified in this instruction shall
also be addressed.
A5.3. DGA Initial Training, DG XXXX 012 and 023
        A5.3.1. Basic Requirement. Command or Installation DGA personnel must have
        accomplished qualifications as a Senior Transportation Specialist, or qualification as
        engineer related to a logistics field, i.e. automotive engineer, transportation engineer, or
        technical engineer in logistics. The DGA expertise enables evaluation and determination of
        compliance with all safety aspects related to movement of HM/HW by USAFE units. W/o
        these prerequisites the attendance of the IDGA/CDGA course does not qualify the
        appointment as IDGA or CDGA. UDGAs require qualification related to the Air Force Skill
        Code required to execute the unit mission. UDGA training will be tailored to the unit
        mission and inventory. CDGAs/IDGAs must accomplish additional hazmat training related
        to Occupational Health and Safety and environmental protection as listed in A5.9. To
        achieve the DGA training certificate the applicant must proof the following knowledge:
              A5.3.1.1. US regulations covering the legal basis of HM/HW movements of US Forces
              in Europe and specific to the country of the U.S. base/mission.
              A5.3.1.2. U.S. military movement control of HM/HW movement.
              A5.3.1.3. DoD and EUCOM regulations.
              A5.3.1.4. Joint USAREUR/USAFE regulations.
              A5.3.1.5. USAFE regulations and USAFE supplements.
              A5.3.1.6. NATO standards for movement control and border crossing.
              A5.3.1.7. Duties listed in this regulation.
              A5.3.1.8. Accidents.
                   A5.3.1.8.1. Knowledge of accident consequences in conjunction with movement of
                   HM/HW.
                   A5.3.1.8.2. Knowledge of the most common causes of accidents.
              A5.3.1.9. Public Traffic. Public traffic related rules of single states and common
              regulations in Europe, as well as international agreements applicable to the following
              subjects for air, water, road and rail movements, movement preparation, storage, and
              disposal:
              A5.3.1.10. Classification of HM/HW:
              A5.3.1.11. Procedures for classification of solvents and mixtures.
              A5.3.1.12. Structure of the HM listing.
              A5.3.1.13. Characteristics of HM/HW.
2
    Complete course
3
    Tailored to the unit inventory
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                              67


     A5.3.1.14. Hazard classes IAW CLP and classification criteria.
     A5.3.1.15. Physical, chemical, and toxic characteristics of items.
     A5.3.1.16. General packaging regulations specific to the main movement mode and in
     accordance with DoD regulations:
     A5.3.1.17. Packaging types, packaging codes, and markings.
     A5.3.1.18. Packaging requirements and regulations for testing of packages.
     A5.3.1.19. Packaging condition and inspection criteria.
     A5.3.1.20. Marking and hazard labels/placards specific to the main movement mode
     regulation and in accordance with DoD provisions:
     A5.3.1.21. Annotations on hazard labels/placards.
     A5.3.1.22. Affixing and removing hazard labels/placards.
     A5.3.1.23. Marking, labeling, placarding regulations.
     A5.3.1.24. Movement document: movement mode specific and in accordance with DoD
     regulations:
        A5.3.1.24.1. Movement document entries.
        A5.3.1.24.2. Conformity declaration of the shipper/consignor.
     A5.3.1.25. Type of movement:
        A5.3.1.25.1. Complete load: truck load/car load.
        A5.3.1.25.2. Movement in bulk.
        A5.3.1.25.3. Movement in container.
        A5.3.1.25.4. Movement in fixed tanks, demountable or portable tanks (road).
        A5.3.1.25.5. Movement in tank cars (rail).
        A5.3.1.25.6. Movement on vessels.
        A5.3.1.25.7. Movement on planes.
        A5.3.1.25.8. Movement of passengers (PAX):
        A5.3.1.25.9. Movement of DG in luggage (rail, bus, air).
        A5.3.1.25.10. PAX counseling requirements.
        A5.3.1.25.11. Visualization in PAX terminals and travel offices.
     A5.3.1.26. Compatibility requirements.
     A5.3.1.27. Segregation rules.
     A5.3.1.28. Limited and Exempted Quantities.
     A5.3.1.29. Handling and load securing:
        A5.3.1.29.1. Loading and off-loading (load factor).
 68                                                            USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


          A5.3.1.29.2. Stowing and segregation planning.
      A5.3.1.30. Cleaning, venting prior loading and after off-loading.
      A5.3.1.31. Training requirements for drivers, certifiers, Unit DGAs.
      A5.3.1.32. Clearance procedures:
      A5.3.1.33. High consequence HM/HW requiring individual permit.
      A5.3.1.34. General procedures for clearing military cargo.
      A5.3.1.35. Arms Control/War Weapon Control/International Traffic in Arms Regulation
      A5.3.1.36. Reporting:
          A5.3.1.36.1. Accident/Incident Reporting.
          A5.3.1.36.2. Annual Reports.
          A5.3.1.36.3. Activity/Monitoring Reports.
          A5.3.1.36.4. Statistics:
             A5.3.1.36.4.1. Listing of trained and appointed personnel (DGAs, certifiers,
             drivers).
             A5.3.1.36.4.2. Listing of HM/HW approved and registered vehicles/tanks.
             A5.3.1.36.4.3. Listing of qualified appointed vehicle/tank registration/inspection
             experts.
      A5.3.1.37. Waivers and Multi-lateral Agreements:
          A5.3.1.37.1. General waivers and Multi-lateral Agreements.
          A5.3.1.37.2. DoD and DOT waivers: applicability and European certification
          requirements.
          A5.3.1.37.3. Exemption and waiver process.
      A5.3.1.38. Emergency Response Procedures and Investigations.
      A5.3.1.39. Globally Harmonized System and Classification, Labeling, and Packing
      A5.3.1.40. Registration, Authorization, Evaluation, and Restriction of Chemicals
      A5.3.1.41. Safety Data Sheets
      A5.3.1.42. Hazardous Waste/Clinical Waste
      A5.3.1.43. Identification
      A5.3.1.44. Transboundary movements/deployment
      A5.3.1.45. DGA monitoring and inspection techniques
      A5.3.1.46. DGA trainer skills
      A5.3.1.47. USAF Communication
A5.3.2. Additional Training Requirements: Depending on planned appointment one or more
specific training requirements listed for certifiers below.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                           69


A5.4. ADR driver training, DG XXXX 03 through 06;
   A5.4.1. General. Drivers assigned to USAFE units carrying loads exceeding the threshold
   limits identified in ADR 1.1.3.6 must carry an ADR driver training certificate issued by, or
   recognized by the USAFE CDGP. Recognized certificates start with the serial number 99
   followed be the following three digit 500 series serial numbers: 502 through 506 for
   USAREUR training sources and 510 for the USAFE training source. Drivers in the
   possession of ADR driver training certificates issued by other sources, must receive
   additional training to cover A5.3.2.1 and A5.3.2.17. Drivers of USAFE military vehicles
   must be familiar with military regulations on hazardous material or hazardous waste transport
   movement release requirements, military road network clearances, surveillance, signature
   service, or armed escorting described by US military regulations. In case an ADR driver
   certificate is not required at least a safety training covering the emergency response activities
   listed on the Instructions in Writing must be documented. The safety training must be kept
   on file IAW documentation instructions contained in this instruction. Drivers scheduled for
   ADR driver training must achieve the module DG XXXX 03, Basic, before allowed to any of
   the specific modules. Each training unit consists of at least 45 minutes. Each training
   element described below closes with a written test which must be passed. Test material is
   controlled by the USAFE CDGP Engineering Office. The ADR driver training certificate is
   valid for five years. To stay proficient the driver must attend annual refresher training
   provided by the IDGA. The refresher training must be documented and serves also as the
   annual safety refresher training for drivers carrying hazardous material assigned to USAFE
   units.
   A5.4.2. Basic ADR driver training, DG XXXX 03. The minimum duration of the
   theoretical element of the basic course are 18 teaching units IAW ADR and at least 2
   teaching units for the additional US military vehicle program requirements referred to in
   A5.3.1.1 and A5.3.1.17. In addition to the theoretical training unit the individual practical
   exercises shall take place in connection with the theoretical training, and shall at least cover
   first aid, fire-fighting and what to do in case of an incident or accident. If the trainees are not
   familiar with proper load securing of packages, the ADR driver training may be withheld,
   until the individual can provide a training certificate on proper load securing. The training
   certificate on load securing is not required, if load securing is part of the AF skill code
   training.
      A5.4.2.1. EUCOM Movement Control System
      A5.4.2.2. General requirements governing the carriage of dangerous goods;
      A5.4.2.3. Main types of hazard;
      A5.4.2.4. Information on environmental protection in the control of the transfer of
      wastes;
      A5.4.2.5. Preventive and safety measures appropriate to the various types of hazard;
   A5.4.2.6. What to do after an accident (first aid, road safety, basic knowledge about the use
   of protective equipment, etc.);
      A5.4.2.7. Marking, labeling, placarding and orange-colored plate marking;
 70                                                                USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


       A5.4.2.8. What a driver should and should not do during the carriage of dangerous
       goods;
       A5.4.2.9. Purpose and the method of operation of technical equipment on vehicles;
       A5.4.2.10. Prohibitions on mixed loading in the same vehicle or container;
       A5.4.2.11. Precautions to be taken during loading and unloading of dangerous goods;
       A5.4.2.12. General information concerning civil liability;
       A5.4.2.13. Information on multimodal transport operations;
       A5.4.2.14. Handling and stowage of packages;
A5.4.2.15. Instructions on behavior in tunnels (prevention and safety, action in the event of fire
or other emergencies, etc.).
       A5.4.2.16. Security Awareness
       A5.4.2.17. Surveillance and security requirements IAW DTR Vol II Ch 205
   A5.4.3. Tank ADR Driver Training, DG XXXX 04. The minimum duration of the
   theoretical element of the tank course is 12 teaching units IAW ADR. In addition to the
   theoretical training unit the individual practical exercises shall take place in connection with
   the theoretical training, and shall at least cover first aid, fire-fighting and what to do in case
   of an incident or accident. Special subjects to be covered by the specialization course for
   carriage in tanks shall be, at least:
       A5.4.3.1. Behavior of vehicles on the road, including movements of the load;
       A5.4.3.2. Specific requirements of the vehicles;
       A5.4.3.3. General theoretical knowledge of the various and different filling and
       discharge systems;
       A5.4.3.4. Specific additional provisions applicable to the use of those vehicles
       (certificates of approval, approval marking, placarding and orange-colored plate marking,
       etc.).
   A5.4.4. Ammunition and Explosives ADR Driver Training, DG XXXX 05. The
   minimum duration of the theoretical element of the ammunition and explosives course are 12
   teaching units IAW ADR. Special subjects to be covered by the specialization course for the
   carriage of substances and articles of Class 1 shall be, at least:
       A5.4.4.1. Specific hazards related to explosive and pyrotechnical substances and articles;
       A5.4.4.2. Specific requirements concerning mixed loading of substances and articles of
       Class 1.
   A5.4.5. Radioactive Material ADR Driver Training, DG XXXX 06. The minimum
   duration of the theoretical element of the radioactive material course are 12 teaching units
   IAW ADR.
       A5.4.5.1. Specific hazards related to ionizing radiation;
       A5.4.5.2. Specific requirements concerning packing, handling, mixed loading and
       stowage of radioactive material;
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                             71


       A5.4.5.3. Special measures to be taken in the event of an accident involving radioactive
       material.
   A5.4.6. ADR driver refresher training, DG XXXX 03A. Refresher training undertaken at
   regular intervals serves the purpose of bringing the driver‘s knowledge up to date; it shall
   cover new technical, legal and substance-related developments. Refresher training shall have
   been completed before the period referred to in A5.3.1 has expired. The duration of refresher
   training including individual practical exercises shall be of at least two days for
   comprehensive training courses, or at least one half duration allocated to the corresponding
   initial basic or initial specialization training courses as specified above for the individual
   course elements.
A5.5. ADR/RID certifier. The personnel determining conformance of HM/HW to the ADR or
RID regulation must be trained and appointed as ADR/RID certifiers. The training is valid for
five years provided the incumbent of the certificate attends the annual refresher training
conducted by the IDGA/Garrison DGA(GDGA) or CDGA. In conjunction with the training in
A5.2 the certifier can also be appointed as DGA for the HM/HW movement by road/rail.
   A5.5.1. ADR/RID certifier initial, DG XXXX 07.
       A5.5.1.1. All subjects listed in A5.2
       A5.5.1.2. Proper classification IAW ADR/RID
       A5.5.1.3. Proper packaging IAW ADR/RID
       A5.5.1.4. Authorized and forbidden HM/HW; general exemptions
       A5.5.1.5. Vehicle requirements; certification, drivers, loading, placarding, labeling
       A5.5.1.6. Proper documentation IAW ADR/RID
       A5.5.1.7. Certifier test
   A5.5.2. ADR/RID certifier refresher, DG XXXX 07A Refresher. A person still in
   possession of a valid certifier training certificate may just take the certifier test. If the test is
   passed the ADR/RID certifier certificate will be extended for five years. After approving the
   extension the individual must stay current by attending the annual refresher coursed
   conducted by the IDGA, Garrison DGA (GDGA) or CDGA. If the initial certifier certificate
   has expired, the incumbent must repeat the initial course.
A5.6. IMDG Certifier, DG XXXX 08. Personnel determining conformance of HM/HW to the
IMDG must be trained and appointed as IMDG certifiers. The training is valid for five years
provided the incumbent of the certificate attends the annual refresher training conducted by the
IDGA/GDGA or CDGA. In conjunction with the training in A5.2 the certifier can also be
appointed as DGA for the HM/HW movement by sea.
   A5.6.1. All subjects listed in A5.2
   A5.6.2. Proper classification IAW IMDG
   A5.6.3. Proper packaging IAW IMDG
   A5.6.4. Authorized and forbidden HM/HW; general exemptions
   A5.6.5. Segregation and compatibility; container and vehicle loads IAW IMDG
 72                                                               USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


   A5.6.6. Proper documentation IAW IMDG
   A5.6.7. Certifier test
A5.7. Certifier for HM by commercial air; IATA-DGR, DG XXXX 09 (contracted course),
compliant for personnel category 1, certification and packaging of HM for commercial air. The
student must pass a test to achieve the certificate.
   A5.7.1. DGAs: in addition to the requirements listed in 5.2, for DGA appointments for
   monitoring HM/HW by commercial means after 30 Jun 2011 the incumbent must complete
   the training for personnel category 6. Recertification is required every two years. The
   student must pass a test to achieve the certificate.
A5.8. Technical Expert Training : Technical expert (TE) training is required when units
identify and/or prepare HM/HW for a movement process. Personnel trained as TE are not
authorized to certify and therefore cannot be appointed as certifiers. The TE training is
recommended for units which execute shipper and packer duties and no other duties of the
participants listed in this regulation.
   A5.8.1. Technical Expert (TE) IAW ADR, DG XXXX 10; this course is focused on
   personnel with shipper duties IAW ADR. The training is based on the unit inventory and
   teaches the tools and techniques on how to identify the unit‘s hazardous material or
   hazardous waste IAW the ADR and how to select the proper packing and identification
   markings.
       A5.8.1.1. Structure of ADR
       A5.8.1.2. Identification of HM/HW IAW Part 2 and Part 3 of ADR
       A5.8.1.3. Material Safety Data Sheet (US) and Safety Data Sheet (Europe) requirements
       A5.8.1.4. Documentation requirements
       A5.8.1.5. Accident/Incident Reporting
       A5.8.1.6. Identification and selection of proper packing
   A5.8.2. Technical Expert IAW IMDG, DG XXXX 10A; this course is focused on
   personnel with shipper duties. The training is based on the unit inventory and teaches the
   tools and techniques on how to identify the unit‘s hazardous material or hazardous waste
   IAW the IMDG.
       A5.8.2.1. Structure of IMDG
       A5.8.2.2. Identification of HM/HW IAW Part 2 and Part 3 of IMDG
       A5.8.2.3. Material Safety Data Sheet (US) and Safety Data Sheet (Europe) requirements
       A5.8.2.4. Documentation requirements
       A5.8.2.5. Accident/Incident Reporting
       A5.8.2.6. Identification and selection of proper packaging
A5.9. ADR/RID/IMDG Certifier, DG XXXX 11; consists of either the course listed in A5.4
or A5.5. If the course listed in A5.4 is the basis, one additional day of training will be provided
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                       73


to show the differences, and one additional day of hands on cases to improve proficiency. If the
course listed in A5.5 is basis the same applies in reverse by teaching the differences using A5.4.
A5.10. Hazardous Material Management (GHS/CLP) and ESOH risk management, DG
XXXX 12; CDGAs and IDGAs require additional knowledge regarding the impact of hazardous
material to determine proper identification and minimization of risk. This knowledge is
overlapping with other DOD functional areas like Safety, Occupational Health, and
Environmental Protection. The CDGAs/IDGAs must be able to conduct proper classifications of
HM and HW. Classification of US products may differ to classifications in Europe for the same
product until the US system has implemented the GHS. For items procured in the US the CDGA
and IDGA will assist the units consuming HM to identify the waste IAW the European GHS.
This ensures the HW can be moved properly identified and packaged to the disposal site.
Further the proper identification includes labeling IAW European Hazard Communication
requirements to meet OSHA requirements for all possible personnel exposed to the HM/HW
during movement or during accidents/incidents.
   A5.10.1. DOD regulations
       A5.10.1.1. DODI 6050.5, DOD Hazard Communication Program
       A5.10.1.2. AFI 32-7082, Hazardous Materials Management
       A5.10.1.3. DOD 4715.05, Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document
   A5.10.2. European Regulations
       A5.10.2.1. European Regulation on Classification, Labeling and Packaging CLP;
       A5.10.2.2. MIL STD 129 requirements and CLP requirements
       A5.10.2.3. Translation of US MSDS information into European SDS information
       A5.10.2.4. Marking requirements for material identified as hazardous but not regulated
       hazardous for movement.
       A5.10.2.5. Host Nation Enforcement
   A5.10.3. Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH)
       A5.10.3.1. SDS Format
       A5.10.3.2. Actions to identify inventory related to candidate list
       A5.10.3.3. REACH implementation in European countries for military organizations and
       how to react.
       A5.10.3.4. Host Nation Enforcement and Clearance requirements
   A5.10.4. Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, border crossing
   requirements for HW.
       A5.10.4.1. Identification in inventory
       A5.10.4.2. Deployment requirements
       A5.10.4.3. Notification and approval process
   A5.10.5. Reduction of Hazardous Substances
 74                                                             USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


   A5.10.6. Limitation and elimination of Ozone Depleting Substances
A5.11. Load Securing, DG XXXX 13; cargo must be properly secured during movement.
This course provides information and techniques how to determine proper load securing for
trucks, containers, and railcars.
   A5.11.1. Basic requirements
   A5.11.2. Military load drawings, i.e. MILSTD 1386 series;
   A5.11.3. European/US best practices on load securing
   A5.11.4. Determining friction forces and proper tie down
   A5.11.5. Determining proper blocking and bracing
   A5.11.6. Determining proper load distribution
   A5.11.7. Determining axle weight
   A5.11.8. Determining load classes for railcars and military load classes
A5.12. Technical Specialist Training, DG XXXX 14; this training is required for personnel
certifying HM/HW for deployment of their unit inventory by truck, rail, or sea. Additionally this
training is required for personnel certifying movement of HM/HW as part of their daily duties,
i.e. civil engineering crews when moving to their place of work over public highways carrying
HM.
   A5.12.1. Subjects identified in A5.4 and A5.5 apply. The course tailored to the unit
   inventory and mission. Duration is adjusted accordingly. The student must pass an open
   book test to achieve the certificate.
A5.13. Annual Refresher Training, DG XXXX 15; CDGPM/CDGA organized training
regarding changes planned for the following year. The training is mandatory for all IDGAs and
is funded by the USAFE CDGP.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                            75


                               Attachment 6
                        SECURITY PLAN REQUIREMENT

Table A6.1. NPRM LIST
 76                                                          USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


                                       Attachment 7
      ADR VEHICLE AND TANK VEHICLE INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATION

Figure A7.1. VEHICLE INSPECTION CHECKLIST – PRE-REQUISITE FOR THE
ADR INSPECTION, USAFE Form 69 Sample (Front)




A7.1. The unit must conduct the inspection listed on the front page of this form prior to
presenting the vehicle to the Competent Authority for conducting the ADR inspection shown on
page 2 of this form.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                     77


Figure A7.2. VEHICLE INSPECTION CHECKLIST – PRE-REQUISITE FOR THE
ADR INSPECTION, USAFE Form 69 Sample (Back)




A7.2. Page 2 will be completed by the ADR Competent Authority. The USAFE A4/7,
Command Dangerous Goods Program Engineering Office is an appointed ADR Competent
Authority, recognized in all ADR member states.
 78                                                            USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Figure A7.3. Certificate of Approval for Vehicles Carrying Certain Dangerous Goods,
USAFE Form 68 Sample (Front)




A7.3. A copy of this form will be kept by the unit Vehicle Control Officer and fleet
management. HNSAs may request review of the copies at the unit or at fleet management. The
original must be kept in the driver cab and will be presented to enforcement authorities during
road checks upon request.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                      79


                                          Attachment 8
   CLASSIFICATION, LABELING AND PACKAGING AND EUROPEAN HAZARD
                          COMMUNICATION:

A8.1. General: The EUCOM Command Hazardous Material Management Program Advisory
Note 01-11, Jan 2011, advises on the provisions of the EC directive 1272/2008 on Classification,
Packaging, and Labeling (CLP) of hazardous material as described herein. When entering
HM/HW into the public traffic system the units responsible for storing, preparing, and moving
the material will ensure the additional marking and labeling requirements are complied with
from the dates forward shown in table 1. The additional marking requirements are listed in Para
A8.3 below as an extract from the council directive REGULATION (EC) No 1272/2008 OF
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of 16 December 2008 on
classification, labeling and packaging (CLP) of substances and mixtures. The owner of the HM
or the organization preparing the HM/HW for movement is responsible for making the
appropriate adjustments prior to releasing the material for movement. In deviation from article
17, EC Directive 1271/2008, listed in Para 8.3 below, HM/HW will be marked and labeled IAW
MIL STD 129, current version. Additionally the information required by article 17, 1 sub-
paragraphs (d) through (h) of the EC 1272/2008 listed in Para A8.3 below will be complied with.
In deviation from article 17 Subparagraph 2, EC 1272/2008, information requirements to be
stenciled or labeled on the outside box listed in Para A8.3 below generated by the US Forces will
be provided in English only. This instruction does not apply to ammunition and explosives,
hazard class 1, hazard class 6.2 infectious material, and hazard class 7 radioactive material.
Hazard class 9 items are covered partially. A sample for additional Hazard Communication
requirements for hazard class 2, flammable gas is provided in Para A8.4 below.

Table A8.1. Timeline For Implementing Marking and Labeling of Hazardous Material
                   CLP               ADR/RID 2011       ADR/RID 2013       ADR/RID 2015
                   Compliance        Compliance         Compliance         Compliance
  Substances       Yes, 1 Dec 2010   Yes, 1 July 2011   Yes, 1 July 2013   Yes, 1 July 2015
  Produced as of
  1 Dec 2010

  Substances       Yes, 1 Dec 2012   DG rules, 1 July Yes, 1 July 2013     Yes, 1 July 2015
  Produced                           2011; CLP 1 Dec incl CLP              incl CLP
  prior to 1 Dec                     2012
  2010
  Mixtures         Yes, 1 June       No                 No                 Yes, 1 July 2015
  Produced as      2015
  of 1 Jun 2015
  Mixtures         Yes, 1 June       No                 No                 Yes, 1 June
  Produced         2017                                                    2017
  prior to 1
  June 2015
A8.2. Safety data sheet (SDS): The unit owning hazardous material is responsible for ensuring
a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) conforming to European Community regulation 453/2010, Annex I, is
on file. Vendors and manufacturers doing business in Europe will be able to provide such a
 80                                                               USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


SDS. In the US there a DOD suppliers which have no international business set up. Obtaining a
European SDS from them will not be possible. In this case send the SDS provided by the US
manufacturer to the CDGP Engineering Office and request assistance for obtaining the additional
information required IAW the European Hazard Communication requirements. The CDGP
Engineering Office will research and provide and publish proper SDS information through
contacts with the Competent Authorities, through recognized scientific publications, or by
cooperating with recognized experts.
A8.3. Marking: Based on the SDS information units moving or releasing HM/HW inside and
outside installations in the EUCOM AOR must ensure the packages are marked/labeled IAW the
most current version of MILSTD 129 and the additional requirements indicated below. The
requirements apply to substances, mixtures and articles:
   A8.3.1. General rules for labeling
       A8.3.1.1. The product identifiers IAW DOD provisions as specified in MIL STD 129;
       A8.3.1.2. Where applicable, hazard pictograms IAW Para A8.3.2.
       A8.3.1.3. Where applicable, signal words IAW Para A8.3.3.
       A8.3.1.4. Where applicable, hazard statements IAW Para 8.3.4.
       A8.3.1.5. Where applicable, the appropriate precautionary statements IAW Para 8.3.5.
       A8.3.1.6. Where applicable, a section for supplemental information IAW Para 8.3.6.
       A8.3.1.7. The label shall be written in English.
   A8.3.2. Hazard pictograms
       A8.3.2.1. The label shall include the relevant hazard pictogram(s), intended to convey
       specific information on the hazard concerned.
       A8.3.2.2. Subject to Article 33 of the CLP, hazard pictograms shall fulfill the
       requirements laid down in section 1.2.1 of Annex I and in Annex V of the CLP
       regulation.
       A8.3.2.3. The hazard pictogram relevant for each specific classification is set out in the
       tables indicating the label elements required for each hazard class in Annex I of the CLP
       regulation.
   A8.3.3. Signal words
       A8.3.3.1. The label shall include the relevant signal word in accordance with the
       classification of the hazardous substance or mixture.
       A8.3.3.2. The signal word relevant for each specific classification is set out in the tables
       indicating the label elements required for each hazard class in Parts 2 to 5 of Annex I of
       the CLP regulation.
       A8.3.3.3. Where the signal word ‗Danger‘ is used on the label, the signal word
       ‗Warning‘ shall not appear on the label.
   A8.3.4. Hazard statements
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                       81


     A8.3.4.1. The label shall include the relevant hazard statements in accordance with the
     classification of the hazardous substance or mixture.
     A8.3.4.2. The hazard statements relevant for each classification are set out in the tables
     indicating the label elements required for each hazard class in Parts 2 to 5 of Annex I of
     the CLP.
     A8.3.4.3. Where a substance is included in Part 3 of Annex VI, CLP regulation, the
     hazard statement relevant for each specific classification covered by the entry in that Part
     shall be used on the label, together with the hazard statements for any other classification
     not covered by that entry.
     A8.3.4.4. The hazard statements shall be worded in accordance with Annex III of the
     CLP regulation.
  A8.3.5. Precautionary statements
     A8.3.5.1. The label shall include the relevant precautionary statements.
     A8.3.5.2. The precautionary statements shall be selected from those set out in the tables
     in Parts 2 to 5 of Annex I of the CLP regulation indicating the label elements for each
     hazard class.
     A8.3.5.3. The precautionary statements shall be selected in accordance with the criteria
     laid down in Part 1 of Annex IV, of the CLP regulation, taking into account the hazard
     statements and the intended or identified use or uses of the substance or the mixture.
     A8.3.5.4. The precautionary statements shall be worded in accordance with Part 2 of
     Annex IV, of the CLP regulation.
  A8.3.6. Supplemental information on the label
     A8.3.6.1. Statements shall be included in the section for supplemental information on the
     label where a substance or mixture classified as hazardous has the physical properties or
     health properties referred to in sections 1.1 and 1.2 of Annex II of the CLP regulation.
     The statements shall be worded in accordance with sections 1.1 and 1.2 of Annex II and
     Part 2 of Annex III of the CLP regulation. Where a substance is included in Part 3 of
     Annex VI, of the CLP regulation any supplemental hazard statements given therein for
     the substance shall be included in the supplemental information on the label.
     A8.3.6.2. A statement shall be included in the section for supplemental information on
     the label where a substance or mixture classified as hazardous falls within the scope of
     Directive 91/414/EEC. The statement shall be worded in accordance with Part 4 of
     Annex II and Part 3 of Annex III to this Regulation.
     A8.3.6.3. Supplemental information, provided that that information does not make it
     more difficult to identify the label elements referred to in MIL STD 129 and Para A8.3.1
     and that it provides further details and does not contradict or cast doubt on the validity of
     the information specified by those elements.
     A8.3.6.4. Statements such as ‗non-toxic‘, ‗non-harmful‘, ‗non-polluting‘, ‗ecological‘ or
     any other statements indicating that the substance or mixture is not hazardous or any
     other statements that are inconsistent with the classification of that substance or mixture
     shall not appear on the label or packaging of any substance or mixture.
82                                                             USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


     A8.3.6.5. Where a substance or mixture is classified in accordance with Part 5 of Annex
     I, of the CLP regulation:
         A8.3.6.5.1. The hazard pictogram shall not be included on the label;
         A8.3.6.5.2. the signal words, hazard statements and precautionary statements shall be
         placed in the supplemental information section of the label.
     A8.3.6.6. Where a mixture contains any substance classified as hazardous, it shall be
     labeled in accordance with Part 2 of Annex II of the CLP regulation. The statements
     shall be worded in accordance with Part 3 of Annex III of the CLP regulation and shall be
     placed in the supplemental information section of the label.
  A8.3.7. Specific rules for labeling of outer packaging, inner packaging and single packaging.
     A8.3.7.1. Where a package consists of an outer and an inner packaging, together with
     any intermediate packaging, and the outer packaging meets labeling provisions in
     accordance with the rules on the transport of dangerous goods, the inner and any
     intermediate packaging shall be labeled in accordance with this Regulation. The outer
     packaging may also be labeled in accordance with this Regulation. Where the hazard
     pictogram(s) required by this Regulation relate to the same hazard as in the rules for the
     transport of dangerous goods, the hazard pictogram( s) required by this Regulation need
     not appear on the outer packaging.
     A8.3.7.2. Where the outer packaging of a package is not required to meet labeling
     provisions in accordance with rules on the transport of dangerous goods, both the outer
     and any inner packaging, including any intermediate packaging, shall be labeled in
     accordance with this Regulation. However, if the outer packaging permits the inner or
     intermediate packaging labeling to be clearly seen, the outer packaging need not be
     labeled.
     A8.3.7.3. Single packages that meet the labeling provisions in accordance with the rules
     on the transport of dangerous goods shall be labeled both in accordance with this
     Regulation and the rules on the transport of dangerous goods. Where the hazard
     pictogram(s) required by this Regulation relate to the same hazard as in rules on the
     transport of dangerous goods, the hazard pictogram(s) required by this Regulation need
     not appear.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                     83


Figure A8.1. Extract from EC 1272/2008




A8.4. Protection of the aquatic environment:
   A8.4.1. Upon implementation of the ADR 2011 classification and identification of
   environmentally hazardous substances, Hazard Classes 1 through 9, dangerous for the
   aquatic environment is harmonized with the Classification, Labeling and Packaging (CLP)
   regulation, EC 1272/2008 (see above for additional CLP requirements). For movements by
   vehicle, rail, container, portable, demountable, or fixed tanks identification is impacted by
   articles or substances with the following characteristics:
      A8.4.1.1. Acute aquatic toxicity
      A8.4.1.2. Chronic aquatic toxicity
      A8.4.1.3. Potential for or actual bioaccumulation; and
      A8.4.1.4. Degradation (biotic or abiotic) for organic chemicals.
      A8.4.1.5. Ensure Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) or Safety Data Sheets are
      searched for these ingredients to update the labeling on the outer packages accordingly.
      Certifiers and DGAs must be aware that in addition to Hazard Class 9 those
84                                                             USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


     substances/mixtures can be also contained in Hazard Classes 1 through 8 and therefore
     can be considered hazardous to the environment. This applies also to substances which
     are hazardous but do not meet the criteria of dangerous. For the disposal process these
     items are then classified as environmentally hazardous IAW the criteria for polluting the
     aquatic environment IAW Hazard Class 9.
  A8.4.2. The movement routines for these environmentally hazardous substances must be
  adjusted. Packages, vehicles, railcars, container, portable, demountable, or fixed tanks must
  display the tree/dead fish symbol. The movement document for these items must be
  annotated IAW ADR 5.4.1.1.18. as follows: ―Environmentally hazardous‖. Sample:
  UN1202, Diesel Fuel, 3, III, (D/E), Environmentally Hazardous. Substances or mixtures
  belonging to UN Nos 3077 and 3082, and environmentally hazardous substances packaged in
  single packaging or combination packaging containing a quantity of 5 l (1.32 gallon) for
  liquids or 5 kg (11 lbs) for solids are exempt from this provision.
  A8.4.3. If the environmentally hazardous items move by sea, the document for land
  transportation to/from the sea port may contain ―Marine Pollutant‖ instead.
  A8.4.4. If assistance is required for identification of environmentally hazardous substances,
  contact the Command Dangerous Goods Program offices of the respective service, i.:
  USAFE Command Dangerous Good Program Engineering Office: DSN 314-478-1301 or e-
  mail usafea47.commanddga@ramstein.af.mil; USAREUR Command DGA: DSN: 314-
  370-6917
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                    85


                                        Attachment 9
                  DOCUMENTATION OF MONITORING ACTIVITIES

A9.1. CDGP Checklists
   A9.1.1. General: Checklists are required to ensure compliance with HM/HW regulations.
   Checklists help to prevent sanctions, mission delays and disruptions. Each DGA should
   ensure personnel executing duties identified in this regulation use checklists to achieve
   compliance.
A9.2. Duties of Participants: Attachment 4 lists duties which if not properly executed can be
sanctioned. Each unit needs to determine which of the participant functions are executed. Based
on the sanctions listed for the respective participant the UDGAs need to build checklists to
ensure compliance. Additional local requirements identified by the IDGP need to be added.
Host nation authorities review if the duties listed for a participant are complied with.
A9.3. Checking technical requirements: Host nation authorities also check whether the
technical provisions of transport assets, tanks, containers, and packages are met. Therefore
additional requirements for checklists exist to ensure compliance with technical requirements.
The CDGP office can be contacted for assistance
A9.4. Recommended checklists:
   A9.4.1. Movement Document
   A9.4.2. Tanks (portable, demountable or fixed), tank vehicles, and tank containers
   A9.4.3. Hazmat Inspection AMC 1015 for MILAIR
   A9.4.4. Accepting HM/HW for movement
   A9.4.5. Movement of explosives
   A9.4.6. Checklist IAW Section 7.5 ADR/RID
 86                                                            USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


                                       Attachment 10
                                   IDGA CDGP DUTIES

A10.1. 31 FW IDGA: The IDGA Aviano AB will support the CDGP as follows: Research and
provide information on Italian regulations and policy regarding HM/HW movement; Consult to
the CDGPM regarding HM/HW movement requirements in Italy; Translate documents from the
CDGP office addressed to Italian authorities or vice versa; Assist the CDGP office during
meetings with Italian officials in case Italian language capability is required to achieve CDGP
missions. The 31 FW IDGA will ensure USAFE units stationed in Italy are informed on
program requirements in Italy. The IDGA will review operating instructions of all units
stationed in Italy to ensure compliance with the CDGP and the 31 FW Installation Dangerous
Goods Program.
A10.2. 39 ABW IDGA: The IDGA Incirlik AB will support the CDGP as follows: Research
and provide information on Turkish regulations and policy regarding HM/HW movement;
Consult to the CDGPM regarding HM/HW movement requirements in Turkey; Translate
documents from the CDGP office addressed to Turkish authorities or vice versa; Assist the
CDGP office during meetings with Turkish officials in case Turkish language capability is
required to achieve CDGP missions. The 39 FW IDGA will ensure USAFE units stationed in
Turkey are informed on program requirements in Turkey. The IDGA will review operating
instructions of all units stationed in Turkey to ensure compliance with the CDGP and the 39 FW
Installation Dangerous Goods Program.
A10.3. 48 FW IDGA: The IDGA, RAF Lakenheath UK will support the CDGP as follows:
Research and provide information on UK regulations and policy regarding HM/HW movement;
Provide consultation to the CDGPM and NDGA regarding HM/HW movement requirements in
the UK; In coordination with the CDGPM and NDGA represent the CDGP and NDGA office
during meetings with MOD UK; by reviewing the installation dangerous goods programs of 100
TRW and the 501 CSW ensures harmonization and standardization vis-à-vis UK authorities and
US Forces and US military tenants; ensure the Mildenhall and Alconbury IDGAs are trained on
the US Forces movement system. Ensure IDGA services to dislocated USAFE units in Northern
Europe areas where USAFE is the Common User Logistics provider IAW ECI 4301.01, i.e.
Norway, Iceland and Greenland. In coordination with the NDGA ensures the three FW IDGAs
provide coordinated support during deployments of the fighter wings or visiting fighter wings.
A10.4. 52 FW IDGA: The IDGA Spangdahlem AB will support the CDGP as follows: Ensure
all GSUs assigned to Spangdahlem AB and dislocated units reporting to the 52 MXG implement
unit programs compliant to the CDGP and compliant to requirements of the country where those
units are located in; support all USAFE IDGAs in training and monitoring of radioactive
material; Support AFMC in the 91B hazardous material waste stream; coordinate SG swipe
tests on 91B, determine hazard class 7 movement requirements on 91 B; initiates and monitors
91B consolidation and release to the AFMC waste stream.
A10.5. 65 AW IDGA: The IDGA Lajes AB will support the CDGP as follows: Research and
provide information on Portuguese regulations and policy regarding HM/HW movement;
Consult to the CDGPM and NDGA regarding HM/HW movement requirements in Portugal;
Translate documents from the CDGP or NDGA office addressed to Portuguese authorities or
vice versa; Assist the CDGP and NDGA office during meetings with Portuguese officials in
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                87


case Portuguese language capability is required to achieve CDGP missions. The 65 AW IDGA
will ensure USAFE units operating in Portugal are informed on program requirements in
Portugal.
A10.6. 86 AW IDGA: The IDGA Ramstein AB will support the CDGP as follows: review and
coordinate the installation dangerous goods programs of 52 FW and dislocated USAFE units in
Germany ensuring harmonization and standardization vis-à-vis German authorities and US
Forces and US military tenants on USAFE and Host Nation installations. The IDGA will
coordinate requirements in support of wide body planes, liaise with AMC units, monitor and
support the USAFE and Theater ammunition movement hubs; monitor and support the
dislocated USAFE units in Luxembourg and Spain.
 88                                                             USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


                                        Attachment 11
                       DRIVER TRAINING PROGRAM DETAILS

A11.1. General: The special training for drivers moving hazardous material on public roads in
the EUCOM AOR is based on the lesson plans contained in this instruction. The ADR driver
program is conducted under a specific license and conditions of an ADR member state. The
following identifies requirements for ADR driver training programs which are executed by the
component commands. Oversight of the ADR Driver Training program is the responsibility of
the Command Dangerous Goods Advisors or Hazardous Material Management Program
Managers, as appropriate.
   A11.1.1. Organization appointed under an ADR member state will issue ADR training
   certificates to drivers of vehicles carrying hazardous material compliant to the format listed
   in Annex B, Section 8.2.2.8.3 ADR.
   A11.1.2. Lesson Plan: The official lesson plans of the ADR member states are basis of the
   training. Additionally the training must include the specific US military requirements for
   hazardous material movements as listed in DTR Vol II, and as further identified by the AER
   55-355/USAFE 24-201/NAVEUR 4600.7G, Joint Transportation and Traffic Management,
   and upon implementation, IAW ECI 4305.01, Traffic Management within the USEUCOM
   Area of Responsibility (AOR)
   A11.1.3. Training Requirement: The driver qualification for the movement of hazardous
   material IAW Ch 8.2, Annex B, ADR, is required for the following vehicles:
       A11.1.3.1. Vehicles carrying hazardous material in packages exceeding the threshold
       limit identified in ADR 1.1.3.6. National deviations on the threshold limits are possible.
       Check with your Installation or Garrison DGA for that information.
       A11.1.3.2. Vehicles carrying unclean or filled tanks containing hazardous material or
       residue thereof exceeding the volume of 1m3/35.31 cft;
       A11.1.3.3. Vehicles carrying hazardous material in tank container, portable tanks, or
       multiple element gas containers (MEGCs) with a single volume exceeding 3m3/109.94
       cft.
       A11.1.3.4. Vehicles carrying hazardous material with battery vehicles exceeding a total
       volume of 1m3/35.31 cft
       A11.1.3.5. Other vehicles, which carry hazardous material of hazard class 1 (Ch 8.5
       ADR Special Provision S1)
       A11.1.3.6. Vehicles carrying specific radioactive substances (Ch 8.5 ADR, Special
       Provisions S 11 and S 12).
   A11.1.4. Operator qualification: In compliance with this instruction vehicles of US forces
   carrying hazardous material may only be operated by drivers qualified in the specific
   regulations of the ADR, US EUCOM and DOD, and if they are in the possession of the
   proper ADR training certificate. All regulations applicable to operating US military vehicles
   on public highways in Europe apply also.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                       89


A11.2. Scope: This instruction applies for the training of hazardous material drivers of the
USAFE units in Europe operating vehicles carrying hazardous material in quantities requiring
identification of the vehicle IAW ADR. This includes vehicles which are leased or rented by the
US Forces. Drivers trained by commercial sources must receive additional training covering the
US military provision listed in Component Command, EUCOM and DOD regulations.
A11.3. Basic Requirements: Organizations conducting the training for hazardous material
drivers must ensure that the students achieve the required proficiency and knowledge. They
must ensure that instructors are up to date on the latest rules and regulations on hazardous
material and US military transportation/vehicle operations. By maintaining current Command
Dangerous Goods Programs or Hazardous Material Management Programs component
commands must ensure the training complies always with the most current requirements and
regulations applicable to the movement of hazardous material on public roads in the EUCOM
AOR. Lesson plans contained in this regulation must be followed. Additional component
instructions and lesson plans apply also.
A11.4. Training
   A11.4.1. Courses: Content and duration of training must comply with the lesson plan listed
   below. The time and amount of training units cannot be reduced. The following
   requirements for the training apply:
       A11.4.1.1. Initial Training for movement of hazardous material in packages; DG
       XXXX 03
       A11.4.1.2. Special training for movement of hazardous material in tanks; DG
       XXXX 04
       A11.4.1.3. Special training for movement of ammunition and explosives substances
       and articles; DG XXXX 05
       A11.4.1.4. Special training for the movement of radioactive material. DG XXXX 05
       A11.4.1.5. Refresher Training. DG XXXX 06
   A11.4.2. Certification: To achieve a training certificate the following applies: Each
   training element ends with a test which must be successfully passed by the student. The
   initial training course is a prerequisite for any of the special courses and the refresher
   training. Refresher training is required before the ADR driver training certificate expires. If
   refresher training is not accomplished prior to the expiration date of the ADR driver training
   certificate, the incumbent must attend initial training again. In addition to theoretical
   subjects the trainees must conduct exercises which are identified in below.
A11.5. Training Organizations: Only organizations with qualified ADR driver trainers
approved by the CDGP Office are authorized to provide the training. The CDGP Engineering
Office will ensure USAFE ADR driver training organizations comply with requirements of this
instruction. The CDGP Engineering office will document compliance for review by the
surveillance office of the ADR member state authorizing the US ADR driver training facility.
Non-compliance to this instruction may result in withdrawal of the training authorization.
 90                                                                USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


A11.6. Personnel assigned to the training organization:
   A11.6.1. Manager: Training organization must identify a person responsible to manage the
   training. The person selected must be a qualified Dangerous Goods Advisor.
   A11.6.2. Trainers: Trainers must be in the possession of a Unit Dangerous Goods Advisor
   training certificate of a US Forces training source, and the appropriate ADR driver training
   certificate for the course he or she is teaching.
   A11.6.3. The trainer must proof skills in training/teaching personnel.
   A11.6.4. Trainers must conduct refresher training for UDGAs and ADR drivers every 3
   years and pass the appropriate tests at the end of these courses. New training certificates will
   be issued.
   A11.6.5. Additionally the trainers must attend annual refresher training provided by the
   CDGP office. The attendance of this training is mandatory to ensure ADR driver trainers
   received the most current information.
   A11.6.6. Trainers must show training certificates in first aid, fire fighting, and emergency
   response.
A11.7. Tests:
   A11.7.1. The training of ADR drivers ends with written tests.
   A11.7.2. The tests are administered by the manager of the training organization or if the
   training was dislocated from that organization, by a designated Dangerous Goods Advisors
   assigned to the location where the training took place.
   A11.7.3. The CDGP Engineering Office ensures the most current test questions approved by
   ADR member states are provided to the training organizations. The CDGP Engineering
   Office is authorized to provide translated copies of official tests provided by the Host Nation
   authorities, if these tests are not available in English. Tests and solutions will be treated as
   accountable and controlled documents and must be kept in a secured filing cabinet. It is not
   authorized to release the planned test version to the students prior to the test.
   A11.7.4. A student has passed the training if he or she did not miss more than one hour of
   training, if the test is completed in the allotted time without help of a third person and if the
   required percentage to pass the test is achieved.
   A11.7.5. In case the test was failed the student can repeat the test using a different set of test
   questions. If the student fails again, he or she must repeat the training course. Attendees of a
   special course without successfully completing the initial course is not authorized.
   A11.7.6. The training organization must keep the copies of the test and the daily attendance
   roster in file for at least five years. The files can be reviewed by the surveillance agency of
   the ADR member state and by the CDGA.
   A11.7.7. The training organization will provide a report on all students successfully
   completing ADR driver training to the CDGA. The CDGA will forward the data to the
   EUCOM CHMSA every six months. The CDGA will also forward the data to the agency
   authorizing the training IAW ADR.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                       91


A11.8. Driver training certificates:
   A11.8.1. Training organizations will control the blank ADR driver training certificates
   according to the rules for accountable forms.
   A11.8.2. Completed ADR driver training certificates must be reported to the host nation
   office authorizing the issuance of the form. Format is described in Appendix B, Enclosure E,
   of this instruction.
   A11.8.3. The validity of the ADR driver training certificate is five years from the date of
   successful completion of the training. The required refresher training can be accomplished
   within twelve months prior to, but not later than the expiration date of the ADR driver
   training certificate.
   A11.8.4. If members of the US forces or civilian employees obtained a commercial ADR
   driver training certificate they must receive additional training regarding the US military
   regulations applicable to the movement of hazardous material on US military vehicles.
   A11.8.5. The ADR driver training certificate is separate from the driver license. The ADR
   driver training certificate cannot be used in liew of a driver license. Likewise, if the driver
   license is pulled, the ADR driver training certificate is not impacted.
   A11.8.6. Personnel returning from PCS outside of EUCOM which are still in possession of a
   valid ADR driver training certificate, shall achieve refresher training before obtaining duties
   as driver carrying hazardous material again. The same applies to personnel which departed
   the active military force and return to duty as reservist or civilian.
   A11.8.7. Information on the ADR driver certificate must include the following:
       A11.8.7.1. Expiration date
       A11.8.7.2. Last name, first name,
       A11.8.7.3. Date of birth
       A11.8.7.4. Nationality
       A11.8.7.5. Issuing authority
       A11.8.7.6. Date of issue; the date of issue cannot be before the date of the test.
       A11.8.7.7. Signature of the appointed issuing authority, printed name of the issuing
       authority
       A11.8.7.8. Stamp of the issuing authority
       A11.8.7.9. Expiration date of extension
   A11.8.8. Expansion of the ADR driver certificate:
       A11.8.8.1. After successfully completing a tank, ammunition or class 7 course the ADR
       driver certificate will indicate the authorized hazard classes under the category ―other
       than in tanks‖ or ―in tanks‖.
       A11.8.8.2. All hazard classes not trained must be strikethrough. If the basic and
       additional courses were achieved on different dates, the expiration date of the ADR
       certificate is calculated on the date of passing the basic course.
92                                                               USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


  A11.8.9. Serial number: ADR driver certificates provided by ADR member states include
  a serial number. Blank ADR driver certificates will be controlled IAW accountable forms
  procedures based on those serial numbers. As a minimum, blank forms will be stored in a
  file cabinet secured by a lock. Access to these forms is only granted to personnel authorized
  to issue and sign the form. Upon issuing a form an additional serial number will be printed
  onto the form identifying the driver training unit, the year of issuance and a four digit serial
  number controlled by the driver training unit.
  A11.8.10. Lost, damaged ADR driver certificates or name change: If an ADR certificate
  is lost or damaged the training unit which issued the original ADR certificate will issue a new
  ADR driver certificates based on the data of the incumbent on file. The same applies, if a
  name change is required.
  A11.8.11. Security:
     A11.8.11.1. Blank ADR driver training certificates will be secured and controlled by the
     training unit. Installation, or Command DGAs will periodically check compliance to this
     regulation regarding accountability and security. The checks will be documented.
     A11.8.11.2. Drivers will secure their ADR driver training certificates equal to securing
     their personal ID.
     A11.8.11.3. Lost or stolen: If an ADR driver certificate is missing, drivers must report
     the loss to the driver training unit which issued the certificate. The driver training unit
     will inform the Command DGA on the serial numbers and driver name of the lost form.
     Command DGAs will inform all US movement control elements on the lost ADR driver
     training certificate by serial number of the country controlling the blank form, the serial
     number issued by the training unit, and the name of the bearer of the ADR driver training
     certificate. Additionally the authority of the country providing the blank ADR certificate
     will be informed by the CDGA.
     A11.8.11.4. Personnel turning over dangerous loads, i.e. TMOs or HW monitors, will
     check ADR driver training certificates for validity prior to releasing hazardous material to
     drivers in quantities exceeding the threshold limits in ADR 1.1.3.6. The information on
     the ADR driver training certificate must match the configuration for movement of the
     hazardous material. For example, if a driver only has a qualification for flammable
     liquids in packages, flammable liquids in tanks cannot be turned over to that driver.
     Additionally movement control elements will ensure the driver identification listed on the
     ADR driver training certificate matches with the driver identification documents, ID card
     or passport. This applies also for the new ADR driver training certificates containing a
     photo of the driver.
     A11.8.11.5. Withdrawal of ADR driver training certificates: Installation, garrison or
     Command DGAs are authorized to withdraw an ADR driver training certificate if
     discrepancies are found during inspections, i.e. driver tests not properly evaluated, or a
     copy of the driver test is not on file at the training unit to proof the qualification of the
     driver. Prior to withdrawal of the ADR driver training certificate, the reasons must be
     thoroughly evaluated. Loss of a vehicle driver license does not require withdrawal of the
     ADR driver training certificate.
  A11.8.12. Reports:
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                       93


       A11.8.12.1. All issued ADR driver training certificates will be reported by the training
       unit to their CCHMSA within two work days after completion of training. The following
       information is required:


                            Report list for ADR Certificates/Year1/License2

                  Serial
               Number of
      Serial    the ADR
      No of       driver                           Date
      blank      training    Last        First     of                Type of        Date of   Expiration
Nr.   form.        unit3     Name        Name      Birth Nationality License4      issuance     Date
                                                                        B
                                                                       B/T
                                                                       B/M
                                                                      B/T/M
                                                                      BR/T
                                                                      B/M/R
Notes:
1. Enter year; i.e. 2011
2. Enter license number of ADR training unit, i.e. 510
3. Enter serial number of ADR driver training unit as follows: always 99 – serial number of the ADR
driver training unit, last two of the current year, four digit serial number. i.e. 99-510-11-0001
4. Enter Type of license: B = Basic, BR = replacement of basic certificate; M = Ammunition and
Explosives, T = Tank, R = Radioactive; RT=Refresher training. Examples: B/T for drivers authorized
to move hazardous material in tanks; B/M for drivers authorized to move ammunition and explosives; B
for drivers authorized to move hazardous material in packages; BR/T replacement of original certificate
due to wear and tear or loss of original certificate for drivers authorized to move hazardous material in
tanks. In this case the expiration date of the original certificate applies also to the replacement.

Table A11.1. ADR Driver Training Report.

       A11.8.12.2. The CDGP Engineering Office will provide frequent updates to the Host
       Nation authority issuing the license for the ADR driver training. The report is due
       monthly or as data changes, the month following the month when the new data was
       received. If the training is administered by an IDGA the IDGA will provide the
       information in the format described in A11.8.12.1 above to the CDGP Engineering
       Office.
       A11.8.12.3. The person managing the driver training is responsible to ensure
       accountability of all blank driver training forms and the forms issued. Upon request the
       documentation of the accountability will be provided to the CDGP Engineering Office
       and the Host Nation authority executing surveillance on the training program.
 94                                  USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Figure A11.1. Model of Certificate
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                   95


Figure A11.2. MODEL OF THE ADR DRIVER TRAINING CERTIFICATE STARTING
1 JAN 2013.




A11.9. ADR Driver Training Lesson Plans:
   A11.9.1. Special requirements concerning the training of drivers;
      A11.9.1.1. The necessary knowledge and skills shall be imparted by training covering
      theoretical courses and practical exercises on ADR provisions applicable to drivers. The
      knowledge shall be tested in an examination.
      A11.9.1.2. The training sources must ensure that the training instructors have a good
      knowledge of, and take into consideration, recent developments in regulations and
96                                                             USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


     training requirements relating to the carriage of dangerous goods. The training shall be
     practice-related. The training program shall conform with the approval, on the subjects
     set out in this attachment. The initial training and refresher training shall also include
     individual practical exercises listed herein.
     A11.9.1.3. The training source must ensure that the training instructor has a good
     knowledge of the US military vehicle driving program and the EUCOM movement
     control system on documenting, moving, and clearing hazardous material on public
     highways and crossing borders. The trainer must ensure the drivers of US military
     vehicles are familiar with the Defense Transportation Regulation, DTR Vol II, provisions
     on hazardous material movements. This includes drivers of leased or rented vehicles
     which are under the control of military fleet management. Drivers holding an ADR
     driver training certificate from a commercial source must show a training certificate on
     the DOD provisions on hazardous material applicable to military truck movements before
     being allowed to transport US Forces owned hazardous material. IDGAs/GDGAs are the
     training source for the military part in case a commercial ADR driver training certificate
     is presented.
  A11.9.2. Structure of training to achieve the knowledge skill for passing the examination.
     A11.9.2.1. Initial and refresher training shall be given in the form of a basic course and,
     when applicable, specialization courses.
     A11.9.2.2. Subjects to be covered by the basic course will be, at least:
         A11.9.2.2.1. General requirements governing the carriage of dangerous goods;
         A11.9.2.2.2. Main types of hazard;
         A11.9.2.2.3. Information on environmental protection in the control of the transfer of
         wastes;
         A11.9.2.2.4. Preventive and safety measures appropriate to the various types of
         hazard;
         A11.9.2.2.5. What to do after an accident (first aid, road safety, basic knowledge
         about the use of protective equipment, etc.);
         A11.9.2.2.6. Marking, labeling, placarding and orange-colored plate marking;
         A11.9.2.2.7. What a driver should and should not do during the carriage of
         dangerous goods;
         A11.9.2.2.8. Purpose and the method of operation of technical equipment on
         vehicles;
         A11.9.2.2.9. Prohibitions on mixed loading in the same vehicle or container;
         A11.9.2.2.10. Precautions to be taken during loading and unloading of dangerous
         goods;
         A11.9.2.2.11. General information concerning civil liability;
         A11.9.2.2.12. Information on multimodal transport operations;
         A11.9.2.2.13. Handling and stowage of packages;
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                          97


           A11.9.2.2.14. Instructions on behavior in tunnels (prevention and safety, action in the
           event of fire or other emergencies, etc.).
           A11.9.2.2.15. Security awareness
       A11.9.2.3. Subjects to be covered by the specialization course for carriage in tanks shall
       be, at least:
           A11.9.2.3.1. Behavior of vehicles on the road, including movements of the load;
           A11.9.2.3.2. Specific requirements of the vehicles;
           A11.9.2.3.3. General theoretical knowledge of the various and different filling and
           discharge systems;
           A11.9.2.3.4. Specific additional provisions applicable to the use of those vehicles
           (certificates of approval, approval marking, placarding and orange-colored plate
           marking, etc.).
       A11.9.2.4. Subjects to be covered by the specialization course for the carriage of
       substances and articles of Class 1 shall be, at least:
           A11.9.2.4.1. Specific hazards related to explosive and pyrotechnical substances and
           articles;
           A11.9.2.4.2. Specific requirements concerning mixed loading of substances and
           articles of Class 1.
       A11.9.2.5. Special subjects to be covered by the specialization course for the carriage of
       radioactive material of Class 7 shall be, at least:
           A11.9.2.5.1. Specific hazards related to ionizing radiation;
           A11.9.2.5.2. Specific requirements concerning packing, handling, mixed loading and
           stowage of radioactive material;
           A11.9.2.5.3. Special measures to be taken in the event of an accident involving
           radioactive material.
       A11.9.2.6. Teaching units are intended to last 45 minutes.
           A11.9.2.6.1. Eight teaching units per day should not be exceeded.
       A11.9.2.7. The individual practical exercises shall take place in connection with the
       theoretical training, and shall at least cover first aid, fire-fighting and what to do in case
       of an incident or accident.
   A11.9.3. Initial training program DG XXXX *
       A11.9.3.1. The minimum duration of the theoretical element of each initial course or part
       of the comprehensive course shall be as follows:
Basic course *03:
                                        18 teaching units
Specialization course for carriage in tanks *04:
        12 teaching units
Specialization course for carriage of substances and articles of Class 1 *05: 8 teaching units
 98                                                                 USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Specialization course for carriage of radioactive material of Class 7 *06:        8 teaching units
For the basic training course and the specialization training course for carriage in tanks,
additional teaching units are required for the practical exercises listed herein.

       A11.9.3.2. The total duration of the comprehensive course may be determined by the
       CDGA, who shall maintain the duration of the basic course and the specialization course
       for tanks, but may supplement it with shortened specialization courses for Classes 1, and
       7.
   A11.9.4. Refresher training program DG XXXX 03A
       A11.9.4.1. Refresher training undertaken at regular intervals serves the purpose of
       bringing the drivers' knowledge up to date; it shall cover new technical, legal and
       substance-related developments.
       A11.9.4.2. All drivers holding an ADR driver training certificate will attend annual
       refresher training provided by the IDGA, GDGA, or UDGA.
       A11.9.4.3. Refresher training to extend the ADR driver training shall have been
       completed before the expiration date of the ADR driver training certificate.
       A11.9.4.4. The duration of the refresher training including individual practical exercises
       shall be of at least two days.
       A11.9.4.5. Normally, not more than eight teaching units shall be permitted on each
       training day.
   A11.9.5. US military specific portion of the ADR driver training program:
       A11.9.5.1. DTR Vol. II, CH 204 provisions
       A11.9.5.2. DTR Vol. II, Ch 205 provisions
       A11.9.5.3. Allied Movement Plan 1A provisions
       A11.9.5.4. DTR Vol. II, Transportation Movement and Control Document (TCMD)
       A11.9.5.5. Road Movement Bit and Road Movement Credit; Allied Movement Plan 3B
       A11.9.5.6. Transportation Movement Release IAW ECI 4305.01
       A11.9.5.7. NATO Form 302
       A11.9.5.8. Load Securing DG XXXX -13; AER 55-48 and/or service specific. This is
       required, if the driver cannot show a load securing training certificate. The subjects
       taught in this training unit are not part of the examination. A training certificate
       indicating which subjects were covered must be provided. Load securing may be
       provided as a standalone course. The subjects listed in A11.9.5.1 through 7 require 4
       training units. Drivers holding ADR driver training certificates from commercial training
       sources must achieve the training in this paragraph before being assigned duties as a
       driver of a military vehicle carrying hazardous material.
   A11.9.6. Approval of training
       A11.9.6.1. The training courses shall be subject to approval of the CDGA overseeing the
       training unit.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                       99


     A11.9.6.2. Approval shall only be given with regard to applications submitted in writing.
     A11.9.6.3. The CDGA will coordinate the following documents with the Host Nation
     authority allowing the ADR driver training prior to approving the training course:
        A11.9.6.3.1. A detailed training program specifying the subjects taught and
        indicating the time schedule and planned teaching methods;
        A11.9.6.3.2. Qualifications and fields of activities of the teaching personnel;
        A11.9.6.3.3. Information on the premises where the courses take place and on the
        teaching materials as well as on the facilities for the practical exercises;
        A11.9.6.3.4. Conditions of participation in the courses, such as number of
        participants.
     A11.9.6.4. The CDGA shall organize the supervision of training and examinations.
     A11.9.6.5. The CDGA will ensure the Host nation authority allowing the US unit to train
     ADR driver training provides concurrence in writing on the following subjects:
        A11.9.6.5.1. The training shall be given in conformity with the application
        documents;
        A11.9.6.5.2. The competent authority shall be granted the right to send authorized
        persons to be present at the training courses and examinations; the rules established
        under the Status of Forces agreement or under bi-lateral agreements apply.
        A11.9.6.5.3. Upon request the CDGA will advise on time of the dates and the places
        of individual training courses.
        A11.9.6.5.4. The Host Nation authority may withdraw concurrence if the conditions
        described in the application document are not complied with.
     A11.9.6.6. The approval document shall indicate whether the courses concerned are
     basic or specialization courses, initial or refresher courses.
     A11.9.6.7. If the training unit body, after a training course has been given approval,
     intends to make any alterations with respect to such details as were relevant to the
     approval, it shall seek permission in advance from the CCHMSA. This applies in
     particular to changes concerning the training program.
  A11.9.7. Examinations
     A11.9.7.1. Examinations for the initial basic course
        A11.9.7.1.1. After completion of the basic training, including the practical exercises,
        an examination shall be held on the basic course.
        A11.9.7.1.2. In the examination, the candidate has to prove that           he     has the
        knowledge, insight and skill for the practice of professional driver       of     vehicles
        carrying dang In the examination, the candidate has to prove that          he     has the
        knowledge, insight and skill for the practice of professional driver       of     vehicles
        carrying dangerous goods as provided in the basic training course.
        A11.9.7.1.3. For this purpose the CCHMSA providing oversight on the training unit
        in cooperation with the Host Nation authority coordinating the training shall prepare
100                                                             USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


         a catalogue of questions which refer to the items summarized Enclosure E, Appendix
         A, 2 (b). Questions in the examination shall be drawn from this catalogue. The
         candidates shall not have any knowledge of the questions selected from the catalogue
         prior to the examination.
         A11.9.7.1.4. A single examination for comprehensive courses may be held.
         A11.9.7.1.5. Each CDGA shall supervise the modalities of the examination.
         A11.9.7.1.6. The examination shall take the form of a written examination or a
         combination of a written and oral examination. Each candidate shall be asked at least
         25 written questions. The duration of the examination shall be at least 45 minutes.
         The questions may be of a varying degree of difficulty and be allocated a different
         weighting.
      A11.9.7.2. Examinations for initial specialization courses for carriage in tanks or for
      carriage of explosive substances and articles or radioactive material
         A11.9.7.2.1. After passing the examination on the basic course and after having
         attended the specialization course for carriage in tanks or for the carriage of explosive
         or radioactive material, the candidate shall be allowed to take part in the
         corresponding examination.
         A11.9.7.2.2. This examination shall be held and supervised on the same basis as
         listed in this attachment.
         A11.9.7.2.3. At least 15 questions shall be asked with respect to each specialization
         course.
      A11.9.7.3. Examinations for refresher training.
         A11.9.7.3.1. After having undertaken refresher training the candidate shall be
         allowed to take part in the corresponding examination.
         A11.9.7.3.2. The examination shall be held and supervised on the same basis as set
         out in Enclosure E, Appendix A, b 1.
         A11.9.7.3.3. In the examination at least 15 questions shall be asked with respect to
         the refresher training.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                     101


                                        Attachment 12
                                    LIST OF COUNTRIES

Table A12.1. EU, ADR, ADN, RID, NATO, PfP member states.
* Note: This list is subject to change. Review the appropriate official web sites to determine
adjustments.
      Lithuania (EU/ADR/RID/N)                      Albania (ADR/RID/N)
      Luxembourg (EU/ADR/RID/ADN/N)                  Algeria (RID)
      The former Yugoslav Republic of                Andorra
       Macedonia (ADR/RID/PfP)                        Austria (EU/ADR/RID/ADN/PfP)
      Malta (EU/ADR/PfP)                             Azerbaijan (PfP)
      Moldova (ADR/ADN/PfP)                           Belarus (PfP)
      Monaco (RID)                                   Belgium (EU/ADR/RID/N)
      Montenegro (ADR/RID/PfP)                       Bosnia and Herzegovina
      Morocco (ADR/RID)                        (ADR/RID/PfP)
      The Netherlands                                Bulgaria (EU/ADR/RID/ADN/N)
       (EU/ADR/RID/ADN/N)                             Croatia (ADR/RID/ADN/N)
      Norway (ADR/RID/N)                             Cyprus (ADR); Greek Portion also
      Poland (EU/ADR/RID/ADN/N)                EU.
      Portugal (EU/ADR/RID/N)                        Czech Republic
      Romania (EU/ADR/ADN/N)                   (EU/ADR/ADN/RID/N)
      Russian Federation (ADR/RID/PfP)               Denmark (EU/ADR/RID/N)
      Serbia (ADR/RID/PfP                            Estonia (EU/ADR/RID/N)
      Slovakia (EU/ADR/RID/N)                        Finland (EU/ADR/RID/PfP)
      Slovenia (EU/ADR/RID/N)                        France (EU/ADR/RID/ADN/N)
      Spain (EU/ADR/RID/N)                           Germany (EU/ADR/RID/ADN/N)
      Sweden (EU/ADR/RID/PfP)                         Greece (EU/ADR/RID/N)
      Switzerland (ADR/RID/PfP)                      Hungary (EU/ADR/RID/ADN/N)
      Syria (RID)                                    Iran(RID)
      Tunisia (ADR/RID)                              Iraq (RID)
      Turkey (ADR/RID/N)                             Ireland (EU/ADR/RID/PfP)
      Ukraine (ADR/RID/PfP)                          Italy (EU/ADR/RID/ADN/N)
      United Kingdom of Great Britain and            Jordan RID Associate Member
       Northern Ireland (EU/ADR/RID/N)          [01.08.2010]
      Bolivia, Colombia apply ADR/RID                Kazakhstan (ADR/PfP)
       2005                                           Latvia (EU/ADR/RID/N)
                                                      Lebanon (RID)
                                                      Liechtenstein (ADR/RID)
A12.1. Globally Harmonized System (GHS) members*
A12.1.1. Argentina, Cambodia (pilot country), Japan, and New Zealand since 2006;
   A12.1.2. Canada, and Singapore since 2008;
102                                                            USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


  A12.1.3. Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, China, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark,
  Ecuador, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
  Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Paraguay, Peru,
  Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom,
  Romania, and Uruguay since 2009;
  A12.1.4. United States of America GHS implementation proposed in Sep 2009 –
  implementation is planned for Aug 2011;
  A12.1.5. Serbia since 2010; Republic of Korea partially in 2006 and completely in 2010;
  Russian Federation partially in 2009 and completely in 2010;
  A12.1.6. Thailand planned for 2011;
  A12.1.7. Malaysia 2010 for substances and 2013 for mixtures;
  A12.1.8. Australia by 2012;
  A12.1.9. South Africa 2012 for substances and 2016 for mixtures;
  A12.1.10. Bolivia no date but is planning on it; Brunei Darussalam gap analysis is ongoing;
  Chile under coordination since 2008; Colombia no information; Gambia (pilot country) is
  working on funding to implement; Indonesia final draft for implementation is in
  coordination; Lao People's Democratic Republic awareness raising activities; Madagascar
  not formally implemented by used for international movements since 2004; Mexico
  considering implementation; Myanmar considering implementation; Nigeria (pilot country)
  strategic plan to implement GHS in 2008; Philippines decided to implement in 2009 – draft
  regulation is in progress; Senegal (pilot country) draft regulation in progress as of 2007 ;
      A12.1.10.1. Vietnam partially implemented and completely by 2015; Zambia (pilot
      country) expected implementation by 2011.
      * Note: This list is subject to change. Updates can be viewed on
      http://live.unece.org/trans/danger/publi/ghs/implementation_e.html.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                                                      103


                                         Attachment 13
                         HAZARDOUS WASTE PROFILE SHEET

A13.1. General. The identification of HW/CW is the responsibility of the unit generating the
waste. CEAN and IDGA are consultants and trainers to the unit but are not responsible for the
identification. The HW/CW must be identified IAW three sets of rules.
A13.2. Waste Codes: The first identification of HW/CW must be done IAW the waste codes
published by EUCOM J4 EN. Waste is categorized into twenty groups, 01 through 20. Within a
waste group six digit codes are used to further describe and specify the waste. The waste codes
marked with an * are to be used for hazardous waste. All others are for non-hazardous waste.
For example: 08 04 09* waste adhesives and sealants containing organic solvents or other
dangerous substances. The waste code must be entered into block 2b. In case of transboundary
movement of HW, i.e. from deployment sites or for recycling purpose, mark block 2 c. If block
2c is marked, ensure the proper notifications and permits for moving the waste are obtained prior
to entering the waste into the transportation system. Transboundary movement of waste is only
allowed if the waste can be recycled, or if the waste cannot be disposed within the country where
the waste is generated.
A13.3. Identification IAW European ESOH
A13.3.1. The second identification of HW/CW ensures compliance with marking requirements
IAW European ESOH provisions. The HW/CW monitor of the unit will follow the instructions
listed in attachment 8 of this instruction and the appropriate chapter of the final governing
standard (FGS). The appropriate risk, ―R‖, and safety, ―S‖, statements IAW 76/548/EEC and
1999/45/EC must be shown on the waste label for waste from substances produced prior to 1 Dec
2010. For waste from substances produced after 1 Dec 2010 the instructions listed in attachment
8 of this regulation apply. In this case only hazard, ―H‖, and preventive, ―P‖, statements are
authorized. For waste from mixtures or articles containing hazardous material produced until 30
June 2015 both sets of statements can be used. After 30 June 2015 only ―H‖ and ―P‖ statements
are authorized. ―R‖ and ―S‖ statements will be obsolete after 30 June 2015. EC 1272/2008
includes both sets of statements and is therefore the recommended tool to determine proper
ESOH identification for waste labels. Waste group 180103 and 180202 describe infectious CW.
For these two groups there are no ―R‖, ―S‖, ―H‖, or ―P‖ statements listed. Enter ―R‖, ―S‖, ―H‖,
or ―P‖ statements, as appropriate, into block 5 of the USAFE Form 1930. Only the codes are
required. The in-the-clear text is not required. Make sure the ―R‖ and ―S‘, or ―H‖ and ―P‖ codes
referenced in the HW profile sheet are included in the waste label.
A13.4. Identification IAW Dangerous Goods Regulations
A13.4.1. The unit HW monitor will complete block 4 of USAFE Form 1930 IAW duties listed
for shippers, Para 8.3, consignors, Para 8.4, packers, Para 8.13, and HW storage IAW Para 8.15.
With that this block contains all marking, labeling, packing and identification information
required IAW DG rules. Any special information found in the DG regulations requiring in-the-
clear explanation will be entered into block 5 of the form. A person trained as Technical Expert,
holding a certificate from the DG XXXX 10A training, will sign the bottom of the HW profile
sheet. The signature does not constitute certification of the waste. It is only for the purpose of
identification to the disposal company. The CEAN/CW monitor will comply with Para 8.2,
ordering party duties, when submitting the information through contracting to the contractor.
 104                                                          USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


A13.5. Monitoring of HW/CW pick up.
   A13.5.1. A trained UDGA must be present at the time of the pick up of the HW/CW. The
   UDGA will ensure the carrier movement documentation reflects the information given in
   block 2b, block 4 and 5 of USAFE Form 1930, without change. The UDGA ensures all
   labels and markings IAW waste rules and DG rules are affixed, not damaged, and are clearly
   visible. The UDGA will also ensure the packing codes on the outside containment match the
   DG regulation and, in case of plastic containments, the packages are still valid for HW/CW.
   Labels will not be placed over any other relevant markings. Markings and labels must be
   weather resistant and durable.
USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012                                         105


Figure A13.1. HW Profile Sheet, USAFE Form 1930 Sample (Front)
 106                                                   USAFEI23-104 31 MAY 2012


Figure A13.2. HW Profile Sheet, USAFE Form 1930 Sample (Back)
