BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3506

                                                                                 1 APRIL 2005
                                                 Incorporating Through Change 2, 31 MAY 2011
                                                               Certified Current, 13 April 2012
                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                COURSE SCHEDULING AND
                                                              SECTIONING, AND ASSIGNING
                                                                            CLASSROOMS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/DFRC                                                 Certified by: HQ USAFA/DFR
                                                                             (Dr. Dean H. Wilson)
Supersedes:    USAFAI36-175,                                                              Pages: 5
               20 March 2000


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, and outlines responsibilities and procedures on scheduling and sectioning courses
during the academic day and assigning classrooms. It applies to all United States Air Force
Academy (USAFA) agencies involved in these functions. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the opening paragraph. It also updates the office title from the
Office of the Registrar to Student Academic Affairs and Academy Registrar. Additionally, it
updates the office title from Scheduling to Academic Scheduling and updates the office symbol
from DFRS to DFRR. A margin bar (|) indicates revisions from the previous edition.
 2                                                            USAFAI36-3506 1 APRIL 2005




1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. Headquarters, United States Air Force Academy, Student Academic Affairs and
     Academy Registrar, Academic Scheduling and Customer Services (HQ USAFA/DFRR).
        1.1.1. Coordinates the efforts of the Dean of the Faculty (HQ USAFA/DF), Directorate
        of Athletics (HQ USAFA/AD), and 10th Communications Squadron (10 CS) in:
            1.1.1.1. Course scheduling.
            1.1.1.2. Course sectioning.
            1.1.1.3. Classroom assignments.
            1.1.1.4. Graded review scheduling.
            1.1.1.5. Final examination scheduling.
        1.1.2. Develops, publishes, and distributes cadet academic schedules to the Cadet Wing.
        1.1.3. Develops and furnishes the academic departments and Physical Education
        Department (HQ USAFA/ADP) with course enrollment planning information.
        1.1.4. Updates academic programs and individual cadet academic schedules and has
        access to a current record of each.
     1.2. Designated Representatives of Departments or Divisions of HQ USAFA/DF,
     HQ USAFA/CW and HQ USAFA/ADP:
        1.2.1. Submit to HQ USAFA/DFRR any changes required for the master course file
        (MCF).
        1.2.2. Provide HQ USAFA/DFRR with course scheduling, sectioning, and classroom
        data for each course offered, as requested.
     1.3. 10 CS:
        1.3.1. Provides data processing services that enable HQ USAFA/DFRR to schedule
        examinations and section courses.
        1.3.2. Advises designated representatives of HQ USAFA/DF, HQ USAFA/CW, and
        HQ USAFA/ADP on data preparation procedures and problems and gives them computer
        systems analysis and programming support.
     1.4. Cadets. Cadets will follow their published academic schedules.
2. Procedures:
     2.1. Initiating a New Course. USAFAI 36-3507, Curriculum Handbook and Curriculum
     Change Control, outlines procedures for submitting a curriculum change proposal (CCP) for
     a new course. The department initiating the proposal will submit to HQ USAFA/DFRR all
     information, including MCF data, necessary to integrate the new course into the curriculum.
     Once the course is implemented, the department scheduling coordinator must ensure the
     course information in the MCF is correct.
     2.2. Course Offerings. The Curriculum Handbook describes briefly all courses offered.
USAFAI36-3506 1 APRIL 2005                                                                     3


     2.2.1. Requests to change the offering information published in the Curriculum
     Handbook are submitted by CCPs in September and April, during the normal CCP cycle,
     to the Curriculum Committee coordinator (HQ USAFA/DFR).            The Curriculum
     Committee meets each semester in September and April. One-time or out-of-cycle
     requests must be submitted to the Vice Dean (HQ USAFA/DFV) by the appropriate
     department head.
     2.2.2. Once registration has taken place, any requests to delete course offerings for the
     upcoming semester are submitted as follows:
        2.2.2.1. If the enrollment is 10 or less, the department concerned may cancel the
        course. If so, the scheduling coordinator will tell HQ USAFA/DFRR, in writing,
        when the preliminary course offering information (PCOI) is updated. Once a course
        is canceled, it may not be reopened for the affected semester.
        2.2.2.2. If the enrollment is greater than 10, course cannot be deleted.
        2.2.2.3. If the enrollment is six or less, HQ USAFA/DFRR will cancel the course
        unless a request for a waiver has been approved by HQ USAFA/DFV.
        2.2.2.4. HQ USAFA/DFRR will tell HQ USAFA/DFRC when a course is canceled.
     2.2.3. According to the Curriculum Handbook, all departments may offer honors
     sections of their core courses as indicated on the MCF. HQ USAFA/DFRR will tell the
     department scheduling coordinator when to give them a list of students to be placed in the
     honors section.
  2.3. Course Scheduling. HQ USAFA/DFRR will prepare the Master Course Offering
  Schedule (MCOS) each semester. In developing the MCOS:
     2.3.1. Cadet registration will be given primary consideration.
     2.3.2. An academic course consisting of 10 or more sections will have a minimum of 6
     offering times.
     2.3.3. An academic course with an enrollment of 300 or more will be offered at all
     available periods.
     2.3.4. Upon departmental request, HQ USAFA/DFRR will attempt to schedule those
     single contact-hour courses having only two sections on the same day.
     HQ USAFA/DFRR will not consider multiple contact-hour courses and courses with
     three or more sections for this type of scheduling.
     2.3.5. Upon written departmental request, HQ USAFA/DFRR will schedule "no conflict"
     for a given course with up to three other courses. The prerequisite for "no conflict" is a
     stated facilities limitation, or only one instructor available to teach the course involved.
     2.3.6. Upon departmental request, HQ USAFA/DFRR will try to schedule around rated
     faculty members who are actively involved in flying programs.
     2.3.7. Honors sections will be offered at the same time as the basic course sections they
     replace. To accomplish this, the number of offering times for requested honors sections
     must be equal or be less than the number of offering times originally established for the
     basic course sections.
 4                                                              USAFAI36-3506 1 APRIL 2005


     2.4. Preliminary Course Offering Information (PCOI) Adjustments. Shortly after the
     registration cutoff for each semester, HQ USAFA/DFRR will publish and distribute the
     PCOI listing to each department. Each department will review the data on the current PCOI
     listing and adjust the entries for compatibility with enrollment. Each scheduling coordinator
     will provide updated PCOI data according to HQ USAFA/DFRR instructions.
     2.5. Sectioning. When a CCP that adds to the curriculum is approved, the department will
     provide sectioning criteria. The criteria will be published on the MCF and maintained by
     both HQ USAFA/DFRR and the department. HQ USAFA/DFRR will use this file for initial
     sectioning each semester the course is offered.
     2.6. Assigning Classrooms, Lecture Halls, and Conference Rooms. All courses, except
     those offered by HQ USAFA/AD, will meet in Fairchild Hall, building 2354; or Aeronautics
     Laboratory, building 2410; unless otherwise authorized by USAF Academy Scheduling
     Committee action. For more information, see USAFAI 36-3505, Scheduling Cadet
     Instructional Facilities.
3. Information Collections, Records, and Forms or Information Management Tools
(IMT).
     3.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
     3.2. Records. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
     publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
     Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
     Disposition             Schedule             (RDS)            located             at
     https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
     3.3. Forms or IMTs (Adopted and Prescribed).
        3.3.1. Adopted Forms or IMTs:        AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
        Publication.
        3.3.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs: No forms or IMTs were adopted by this publication.




                                             DANA H. BORN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                             Dean of the Faculty
USAFAI36-3506 1 APRIL 2005                                                              5


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD36-35, United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI 36-3507, Curriculum Handbook and Curriculum Change Control.
Curriculum Handbook

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CCP—Curriculum Change Proposal
MCF—Master Course File
MCOS—Master Course Offering Schedule
PCOI—Preliminary Course Offering Information

Terms
Academic Day—Academic periods one through seven and academic evening Call to Quarters as
listed in the current Cadet Schedule of Calls.
Core Course—A course required for graduation.
Course—Part of the USAFA curriculum. Courses may be academic or nonacademic; graded or
non-graded; core or major; advanced, audited, repeat, substitute, honors, experimental, or
overload.
Major's Course—A course required within an academic major.
Master Course File (MCF)—A computer file containing basic course information. Based on
data from the Curriculum Handbook and scheduling coordinators. Copies are kept by Academic
Scheduling (HQ USAFA/DFRS) and by the departments concerned with each course offered at
the USAF Academy.
Preliminary Course Offering Information (PCOI)—Estimated course offerings based on
course offering parameters in the MCF and actual course enrollment.
Resectioning—After sectioning, a department may ask HQ USAFA/DFRS to balance sections
within offering times.
Scheduling Coordinator—An officer from each department or activity offering courses during
the academic day who serves as the point of contact with HQ USAFA/DFRS for scheduling and
sectioning courses.
Scheduling—Takes place after registration when HQ USAFA/DFRS puts each cadet in one of
the offering times for each class for which the cadet registered.
Sectioning—The process by which HQ USAFA/DFRS divides offering times into the number of
sections requested for each course and puts cadets into specific sections.
