BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                      INSTRUCTION 36-401
EUROPE
                                                                              8 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                       INSTALLATION COMMANDERS AND
                                                             SCHOOL LIAISON OFFICERS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/A1SAS                                                Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1S
                                                                            (Mr. William Wilson)
                                                                                        Pages: 14
Supersedes:    USAFEI36-401,
               30 September 2014


This United States Air Force in Europe (USAFE) Instruction implements AFPD 36-26, Total
Force Development. It supports policy in AFI 36-3009, Airman & Family Readiness Centers,
Department of Defense (DoD) 1342.6-M, Administrative and Logistic Responsibilities for DoD
Dependents Schools, which requires installations to appoint school liaison officers and to provide
certain logistic and administrative support to schools. It establishes a baseline for services as
outlined in the Air Force School Liaison Officer/Military Child Education Desk Guide which is
designed to ensure consistency and predictability offered at installations AF-wide. It prescribes
and explains the duties of commanders and school liaison officers in discharging the school
support responsibilities established by the Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
(COMUSAFE). It further covers support responsibilities for School Advisory Committees under
DoDI 1342.15, Educational Advisory Committees and Councils; reporting requirements under
European Command (EUCOM) Instruction (ECI) 1305.01, Overseas Dependents Education in
USEUCOM; and responsibilities under DoD Directive 1015.5, DoD Student Meal Program. It
applies to USAFE commanders and school liaison officers who have DoD Dependents Schools
in their community and who are responsible for students enrolled in the Non DoD Schools
Program (NDSP). It does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National
Guard (ANG) units. The authorities to waive wing/unit level requirements in this publication are
identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”) number following the compliance statement. Refer
 2                                                          USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014


recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’ s chain of command. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes reflect
the Tier Waiver Authorities in accordance with Air Force Instruction 33-360, Publication and
Forms Management.
1. Mission Statement. The Installation School Liaison Officer (SLO) connects commands,
schools, and communities in advancing student literacy and promoting a diverse workforce that
fosters stewardship and informed decision making for the nation. The SLO’s primary mission is
to ensure equal access to education and to develop educational excellence throughout the
command.
2. Introduction:
     2.1. Department of Defense Dependents Schools – Europe (DoDDS-E) operates elementary
     and secondary schools on United States military installations throughout Europe for the
     dependent children of assigned military and civilian personnel. At USAFE locations where
     no DoD schools exist, school age dependents may enroll in the HQ DoDEA NDSP and be
     advised of international school options.
     2.2. Installation commanders are responsible to support all school age dependents and
     provide logistical support to DoDDS-E school. The installation commander is required to
     appoint a senior officer as the military SLO who will appoint a staff member to serve as the
     civilian installation SLO [DoD 1342.6 M, Chapter 1, Section C1.4.3.13].
     2.3. The SLO provides a focal point on the military installation for school support matters.
     The SLO assists the installation commander in accomplishing school support responsibilities
     and serves as the liaison between the installation, school, and community.
     2.4. The diversity of commands, schools and communities dictates that each installation has
     local policies and directives that affect the roles and responsibilities of the SLO.
     2.5. A glossary of references and supporting information is at Attachment 1.
3. Roles and Responsibilities:
     3.1. Commanders. Military child education is a Chief of Staff of the Air Force reportable
     quality of life initiative and strong commander involvement is essential for ensuring our
     children receive a high quality education that prepares them for an ever changing global
     environment. To strengthen parental involvement and provide an avenue for collaborative
     partnership between the command, parents, and schools beyond the classroom, installation
     commanders will accomplish the following:
USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014                                                                       3


     3.1.1. Commander Forums. Commander forums provide an opportunity to influence,
     educate, and support all military child education stakeholders by maintaining open
     communication channels. (T-3).
        3.1.1.1. Administrator Forums. The commander will host meetings between
        commanders, senior enlisted representatives, DoDDS-E principals or local Non DoD
        school leaders, and district administrators as needed or requested. To strengthen the
        home, school, community partnership it is recommended that installations host at
        least two meetings per school year. (T-3).
        3.1.1.2. DoDDS-E Teacher Forums. The installation commander will host an annual
        forum with DoDDS-E teachers at each installation with a DoD school. Forum topics
        may include, but are not limited to, welcome back, mission briefing, safety, high
        priority issues, etc. (T-3).
        3.1.1.3. DoDDS-E Hosted Forums: The commander encourages each level of the
        military command (First Sergeants, Chiefs, deputy commanders, etc.) to engage in
        DoDDS-E hosted forums. The commander, or his or her designee within the military
        command, attends at least one DoDDS-E hosted forum per year, in an official
        capacity [i.e., School Advisory Council (SAC), Parent Teacher Student Association
        (PTSA), faculty meeting, open house, awards night, graduation ceremony, curriculum
        meetings, sporting events, student performances, etc.]. (T-3).
     3.1.2. Commander’s School Evaluation. Commanders at DoD and Non DoD school
     locations will provide an annual evaluation to COMUSAFE within 30 days of the end of
     each school year. Information should address issues of concern to the commander as well
     as specifically address: facility conditions, staffing, budget, class sizes, parental concerns,
     effectiveness of school leaders, and responsiveness of school officials to resolve
     problems, discipline, student achievement, and public affairs actions. The
     IMSC/OL/Detachment Child and Youth Specialist(CYS)/SLO champions commander
     recommendations. (T-2).
     3.1.3. If established by European Command, Wing and Numbered Air Forces (NAF)
     commanders attend the biannual Component Commanders Advisory Council (CCAC),
     co-chaired by Commander HQ USAFE (HQ USAFE/CC) or Vice Commander HQ
     USAFE (HQ USAFE/CV) and Director, DoDDS-E. Commanders submit Installation
     School Advisory Board (SAB) or Installation Advisory Council (IAC) education related
     issues that cannot be resolved locally, for resolution or forwarding through the military
     advisory council chain. (T-2).
     3.1.4. School Liaison Officers (SLO). The SLO should function as the commander’s
     primary advisor on school-related issues. Commanders ensure the installation SLO
     secures guidance from the IMSC/OL/Detachment CYS/SLO as well as any annual
     training requirements. The SLO tracks all SAC, IAC, or SAB issues and analyzes data to
     identify trends. The installation SLO should work closely with IMSC/OL/Detachment to
     resolve issues and ensure compliance with all applicable instructions and directives. (T-2).
     3.1.5. DoD Education Advisory Committees. Commanders responsible for DoD schools
     ensure SABs and IACs are organized and functioning at the beginning of the school year.
4                                                          USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014


       The SLO uploads meeting minutes to the IMSC/OL/Detachment ICE page for tracking
       and assistance. (T-2).
          3.1.5.1. The Installation Commander shall:
              3.1.5.1.1. Provide logistical and administrative support to the advisory
              committees. (T-3).
              3.1.5.1.2. Attend SAB forums or, if there is only one school on the installation,
              the SAC/IAC forums. (T-3).
              3.1.5.1.3. Assist the SAB chairperson in ensuring the annual end-of-year report is
              completed in a timely and comprehensive manner. (T-3).
              3.1.5.1.4. Act as a communication link between the SAB and the military chain
              of command on school advisory matters of interest and concern to the Unified and
              Specified Commands. (T-3).
       3.1.6. Absentee Policy. All bases will publicize and implement the joint EUCOM and
       DoDDS-E absentee policy. Parents should be informed of their responsibility to ensure
       all contact information at the school is current and correct. The commander is responsible
       for enforcing the policy as advised by the SLO. (T-2).
       3.1.7. COMUSAFE Policy on Parent Involvement. Installation commanders shall
       support and widely publicize COMUSAFE's policy on parent involvement in student
       education. (T-3).
          3.1.7.1. Parent / Teacher Conferences are the place of duty for military members and
          supervisors will grant civilian leave, as appropriate. (T-3).
          3.1.7.2. Supervisors shall provide military members time away from the duty site to
          volunteer in school, and grant civilian leave, as the mission allows. (T-3).
          3.1.7.3. Commanders are encouraged to endorse unit sponsorship and mentorship of
          DoDDS-E classrooms. (T-3).
       3.1.8. DoDEA Attendance Policy. All bases will engage with school personnel to ensure
       all parents or sponsors are advised of the DoDEA attendance policy. When requested by
       the school, the SLO or designated command representative will provide assistance to
       ensure appropriate action or services are implemented to improve school attendance. (T-3).
    3.2. School Liaison Officers at USAFE locations with DoD schools. The SLO roles and
    responsibilities at DoD school locations are grouped into five categories. (T-3).
       3.2.1. Communication. Effective communication is the primary tool of the SLO. The
       position requires a highly qualified and motivated individual with well-developed
       interpersonal, communications, and public relations skills. The SLO interacts with all
       partners in the education of school-age children: parents, teachers, students, private
       organizations, like Military Child Education Coalition (MCEC), and government entities.
          3.2.1.1. Advises installation commander concerning matters affecting student
          education and school operations. (T-3).
USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014                                                                      5


        3.2.1.2. Serves as liaison between organizations (private and official), providing
        assistance and services to students, school personnel, and community, and fostering
        partnerships between schools, families, and military organizations. (T-3).
        3.2.1.3. Promotes de-conflicting of calendars. (T-3).
           3.2.1.3.1. Each spring, the SLO facilitates coordination of the base calendar with
           school calendars to ensure goal days, family days, and school holidays coincide
           for the next SY. (T-3).
        3.2.1.4. Attends (whenever possible), as the commander’s advisor, meetings of groups,
        boards, and committees, which impact students or the DoDDS-E school organization.
        Such meetings include: SAC, SAB/ IAC meetings, Continuous School Improvement
        (CSI) and School Improvement Leadership Team (SILT) meetings, PTSA meetings,
        Booster Club meetings, Open House and other school programs (i.e. plays, musical
        performances, ceremonies and graduations), and community health forums. (T-3).
        3.2.1.5. Works with school administrators and installation agencies on youth
        concerns. (T-3).
        3.2.1.6. Coordinates installation publicity for schools such as student registration,
        extra-curricular events and announcements of school closures due to inclement
        weather, ensuring all communities have access to pertinent information. (T-3).
        3.2.1.7. Assists in obtaining presenters or briefing materials for use in training; i.e.,
        teacher, parent or command orientation/training briefings, etc. (T-3).
        3.2.1.8. Interfaces with schools to provide timely information to the commander on
        sensitive issues [student and staff discipline cases, Equal Employment Opportunity
        (EEO) complaints, child abuse allegations, safety incidents, litigation, absentee
        policy, etc.]. (T-3).
        3.2.1.9. Assists in establishing and coordinating the DoDDS-E school district feeder
        plan, and school bus transportation commuting areas. (T-3).
        3.2.1.10. Assists in timely processing of parental inquiries. (T-3).
        3.2.1.11. Serves as the liaison between schools and commanders regarding repeated
        offenses of the absentee policy. (T-3).
        3.2.1.12. Acts as a referral and resource for home school families or students
        attending local/host nation schools off the installation. (T-3).
        3.2.1.13. Attends and briefs military child education community concerns at the
        Integrated Delivery System (IDS) and Community Action Information Board (CAIB)
        meetings. (T-3).
           3.2.1.13.1. Assist Airmen and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC) staff with
           dissemination of school options and information. (T-3).
           3.2.1.13.2. Ensure A&FRC staff are aware of unique school issues impacting
           military children and partner together to provide services that address the issues, i.e.
           deployment, frequent moves, etc.; utilizing MCEC and Military One Source
           resources. (T-3).
6                                                       USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014


       3.2.1.14. Participates actively on the school’s Student 2 Student (S2S) team, a
       Military Child Education Coalition (MCEC) transition support program for students
       made up of the school counselor, school teachers, selected students, and the
       installation SLO. (T-3).
       3.2.1.15. Publicizes COMUSAFE's policy on parent involvement in student
       education as referenced in paragraph 3.1.7. (T-3).
    3.2.2. Logistics. The SLO is essential in coordinating a variety of logistical services
    provided to DoDDS-E. Many of these services are detailed in formal agreements such as
    the Support Agreements (SA). Statutory or local requirements drive the need for other
    logistical support services.
       3.2.2.1. Assists commander in analyzing logistical problems and recommends
       priorities and means for resolution. (T-3).
       3.2.2.2. Coordinates and secures cooperation from Engineers, Contracting, DoDDS-
       E Logistics Division, Transportation Branch, Supply, Comptroller, and others. (T-3).
       3.2.2.3. Assists the installation commander in meeting responsibilities to ensure
       adequate equipment to conduct the student meal program is installed or repaired
       (DoDD 1015.5, Section 5.4.3.). (T-1).
       3.2.2.4. Assists in working with medical treatment facilities to provide emergency
       services for contact sports (DoD 1342.6-M, Chapter 2, Paragraph E2). (T-1).
       3.2.2.5. Support Agreement. The SLO is integrated into the process of drafting,
       coordinating, reviewing, and approving the SA. Personnel at the DoDDS-E Area
       Support Center or service component higher Headquarters are specialists in the
       support agreement arena and should be consulted. Refer to DoD 1342.6-M for
       specific descriptions of authorized support. (T-2).
       3.2.2.6. Facilities. All facilities are “owned” by the installation commander, who
       determines access to and use by authorized groups and organizations. The SA
       establishes the level of support provided to DoDDS-E. DoDDS-E receives separate
       funding for military construction and major alterations of schools. (T-2).
           3.2.2.6.1. Monitors repair, maintenance, and construction of DoDDS-E facilities.
           (T-2).
           3.2.2.6.2. Receives regular updates on status of school-related work orders,
           construction, and changes to the DoDDS-E five-year plan. (T-2).
           3.2.2.6.3. Tracks use of school facilities, using USAFE Form 401, Request For
           Use of School Facilities. Coordinates facility use between school and installation,
           and maintains a completed copy of USAFE Form 401 in the School Liaison
           Office. (T-2).
    3.2.3. Advisory Panels. The SLO provides logistical and administrative support to
    SACs, SABs, and IACs (DoDI 1342.15). See Attachment 2. (T-1).
       3.2.3.1. Attends SAC, SAB, and IAC meetings as non-voting liaison. (T-2).
USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014                                                                     7


         3.2.3.2. Publishes, the times and locations of local SAC, SAB, and IAC meetings in
         USAFE Main Operating Base (MOB) and Geographically Separated Unit (GSU)
         publications to ensure widest dissemination. (T-2).
         3.2.3.3. Ensures minutes of each SAC, SAB, and IAC meeting are promptly uploaded
         to the HQ USAFE/A1SAS ICE website within 30 days of the meeting. (T-2).
         3.2.3.4. Monitors follow-up action on all open issue items. (T-3).
         3.2.3.5. Pre-briefs commanders for attendance at Component Commanders Advisory
         Council meetings and provides back-briefs on actions taken by the European Schools
         Council and Dependents Education Council. (T-2).
     3.2.4. Discipline. The installation commander may issue and enforce school discipline
     policies to supplement existing DoDDS-E or service directives. The SLO has a role in all
     school discipline matters.
         3.2.4.1. Assists schools in resolving student discipline issues. (T-3).
         3.2.4.2. Coordinates with family member/civilian misconduct officer. (T-3).
         3.2.4.3. Acts as permanent member of the school disciplinary committee(s). (T-3).
         3.2.4.4. Supports DoDDS-E Student Transportation Offices with enforcement of
         school bus discipline. Liaises with parents as command representative during second
         phase of appeal process. (T-3).
     3.2.5. Student Meals. Student meal program is an important quality of life issue for
     students and their families. Responsibility for programs varies between installations and
     commands. In many communities, the SLO oversees this program (DoDD 1015.5). (T-1).
         3.2.5.1. Publicizes availability of free or reduced-price meals. (T-1).
         3.2.5.2. Evaluates applications using USAFE Form 400, Application for the Free and
         Reduced Lunch Program. (T-1).
         3.2.5.3. Certifies eligibility. (T-1).
         3.2.5.4. Institutes a system to identify eligible students. (T-1).
  3.3. School Liaison Officers at USAFE locations with students enrolled in the Non DoD
  Schools Program (NDSP). At USAFE locations where no DoD school is available, the SLO
  will be identified as the NDSP Liaison and will serve as the point of contact for NDSP within
  the local community. (T-3).
     3.3.1. Communication. Effective communication is the primary tool of the NDSP
     Liaison. The position requires a highly qualified and motivated individual with well-
     developed interpersonal, communications, and public relations skills. The NDSP Liaison
     interacts with all partners in the education of school age children: parents, administrators,
     teachers, students, HQ DoDEA and DoDDS-E NDSP staff, and private organizations to
     include by not limited to, Military Child Education Coalition (MCEC), and other
     government entities. (T-3).
         3.3.1.1. Serves as the installation commander’s primary advisor concerning matters
         affecting student education. (T-3).
8                                                           USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014


       3.3.1.2. Serves as command liaison between organizations (private and official),
       providing assistance and services to students, school personnel, and community, and
       fostering partnerships between schools, families, and military organizations. (T-3).
       3.3.1.3. Attends (whenever possible), as the commander’s advisor, school and
       community meetings which directly impact quality of life for NDSP students. (T-3).
       3.3.1.4. Works with local school administrators and installation agencies on youth
       concerns. (T-3).
       3.3.1.5. Coordinates installation publicity for schools such as student registration,
       school calendar, extra-curricular events and announcements of school closures due to
       inclement weather, ensuring all communities have access to pertinent school
       information. (T-3).
       3.3.1.6. Interfaces with local school leadership to provide timely information to the
       commander on sensitive issues (student and staff discipline cases, child abuse
       allegations, safety incidents, litigation, absenteeism, etc.). (T-3).
       3.3.1.7. Assists in timely processing of parental inquiries. (T-3).
       3.3.1.8. Acts as a referral and resource for home school students. (T-3).
       3.3.1.9. Works with inbound personnel and sponsors to provide school information
       and school transition assistance prior to permanent change of station (PCS) and upon
       receiving assignment notification. (T-3).
       3.3.1.10. Reviews and recommends NDSP exception to policy requests before
       forwarding them to the local commander, IMSC/OL/Detachment and HQ DoDEA
       NDSP staff. (T-3).
       3.3.1.11. Works school transition issues to ensure successful integration into local
       public, private, or international schools and successful transition back to Continental
       United States (CONUS), utilizing a variety of resources available to military families. (T-3).
    3.3.2. Logistics. The NDSP Liaison at Non DoD school locations is essential in
    coordinating a variety of logistical services. (T-3).
       3.3.2.1. Ensures students and their families receive timely financial reimbursement
       from HQ DoDEA for authorized expenses through the NDSP program. (T-3).
    3.3.3. Advisory Panels. The NDSP Liaison at Non DoD school locations pre-briefs
    commanders for attendance at bi-annual Component Commanders Advisory Council
    meetings, when established, and provides back-briefs on actions taken by the European
    Schools Council and Dependents Education Council. (T-3).
    3.3.4. Discipline. The NDSP Liaison has a role in school discipline matters as defined
    by local school leaders. (T-3).
USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014                                                                     9


        3.3.4.1. Assists schools in resolving student discipline issues as needed. (T-3).
        3.3.4.2. Coordinates with family member/civilian misconduct officer as needed. (T-3).




                                          RICKY L. HARNESS, GS-15, DAFC
                                          Acting Director, Manpower, Personnel, and
                                          Services
 10                                                      USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 1015.5, DoD Student Meal Program, 11 October 1983
DOD 1342.6-M, Administrative and Logistic Responsibilities for DoD Dependents Schools, 11
August 1995
DoDI 1342.15, Educational Advisory Committees and Councils, 27 March 1987
DODD 4500.36, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles, 16 March 2007
AFPD 36-26, Total Force Development, 27 September, 2011
AFI 33-360, Communications and Instruction, 25 September 2013
Air Force School Liaison Officer/Military Child Education Desk Guide, February 2011
Air Force School Liaison Officer/Military Child Education Desk Guide for Leadership, February
2011
ECI 1305.01, Overseas Dependents Education in USEUCOM, current version
DoD Directives and Instructions: http://web7.whs.osd.mil/corres.htm
DoDEA Home Page: http://www.eu.dodea.edu/
Military Child Education Coalition: www.militarychild.org
Military One Source: www.militaryonesource.com
Forms Prescribed
USAFE Form 400, Application for the Free and Reduced Lunch Program
USAFE Form 401, Request for Use of School Facilities
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ASC—Area Service Center
ASD (FMP)—Assistant Secretary of Defense (Force Management Policy)
A&FRC—Airmen and Family Readiness Center
CAIB—Community Action Information Board
CCAC—Component Commanders Advisory Council
COMUSAFE—Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
CYS/SLO—Child and Youth Specialist/School Liaison Officer
DASD (PSFE)—Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (Personnel, Support, Families and
Education)
USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014                                                                  11


DoD—Department of Defense
DoDDS—Department of Defense Dependents Schools
DoDDS—E—Department of Defense Dependents Schools Europe
EUCOM—European Command
IAC—Installation Advisory Committee
IDS—Integrated Delivery System
IMSC/OL/Detachment—Installation         Management      Service   Center/Operating    Location/
Detachment
MCEC—Military Child Education Coalition
NDSP—Non DoD Schools Program
POC—Point of Contact
PTSA—Parent Teacher Student Association
SA—Support Agreement
SAC—School Advisory Committee
SAB—School Advisory Board
SLO—School Liaison Officer
SY—School Year
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFE/CC—Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFE/CV—Vice Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe

Terms
Area—Geographical division within DoDDS which is equivalent to “theater” level; the Area
Superintendent reports to Department of Defense Education Activity (DoDEA) and supervises
districts.
Advisory Panel—Organizations which provide advice and information to DoDDS or military
entities as assigned. Organization, reporting responsibilities and communications procedures are
set out in DoD1342.15. See Attachment 2 for listing of panels, composition and function.
Commuting Area—The school commuting area is defined as a specific geographic area
formally designated for determining eligibility for transportation of dependent students to a
DoD-operated school. School bus services will be provided to all authorized students residing
within the commuting area and outside of the walking area in accordance with DoD 4500.36-R,
Management, Acquisition, and use of Motor Vehicles. A map and/or a narrative description shall
be used to identify the commuting area.
Head Quarters Department of Defense Education Activity—Agency that oversees DoDDS;
located in Virginia.
 12                                                        USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014


Department of Defense Dependents Schools—DoD organization with cognizance for
education of dependents overseas.
District—Geographical division of schools within an area, supervised by a District
Superintendent who reports to the Director of DoDDS-E.
DoDDS Europe (DoDDS-E)—-DoDDS education entity, located in Germany; Director of
DoDDS-Europe is responsible for DoDDS education throughout Europe.
DoDDS-E Area Service Center (ASC)—DoDDS logistics entity, located in Germany, supports
DoDDS-E throughout Europe, reports directly to DoDEA.
DoDDS Europe Logistics Division, Transportation Branch—Subordinate entity of DoDDS-E
ASC with responsibility for transportation support of DoDDS-E schools and schools activities.
DoDEA Feeder Plan—The DoDEA feeder plan designates which upper grade schools receive
students from lower grade schools (i.e., the list of kindergarten through grade 6 schools that
supply a grade 7-12 school). It designates the school options authorized for students living in
NDSP areas. Also, often used informally to describe the school boundary determination by a
District Superintendent identifying which residential areas are served by a given school.
Installation Commander—The commander of a USAFE activity providing logistic and
administrative support to DoDDS activities at a given location. The term encompasses “base
commander,” “community commander,” or similar designations.
Military Child Education Coalition—a non-profit, world-wide organization that identifies the
challenges that face the highly mobile military child, increases awareness of these challenges in
military and educational communities and initiates and implements programs to meet the
challenges.
Military One Source—A 24/7 information, referral, and consultation service for active duty and
reservist members and their families.
NDSP Liaison—Full time, part-time, or additional collateral duty staff appointed by the
Installation Commander to have responsibility over all military child education matters.
School Liaison Officer—Full-time, part-time, or additional collateral duty staff appointed by the
Installation Commander to have responsibility over all military child education matters.
Support Agreement—Agreement between government agencies setting out service and support
to be provided between them, on either a reimbursable or non-reimbursable basis. May also be
entitled Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) or Memorandum of Agreement (MOA).
USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014                                                                   13


                                         Attachment 2
                        EDUCATION ADVISORY COMMITTEES

A2.1. Education Advisory Committees. The committees listed are those established by statute
or directive to provide advice and oversight to the DoD dependent education system. Figure
A2.1 is a wiring diagram illustrating the interrelationships between these committees. The
committees listed on the right have primary input to the military chain of command. The left side
shows the advisory input to DoDDS administration.

Figure A2.1. Education Advisory Panels.




   A2.1.1. Advisory Council on Dependents Education (ACDE)—Worldwide
   Level: Completes tasks assigned by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force
   Management Policy (ASD(FMP)). Advises Director, DoDEA on operations including
   curriculum selection and administration; meets periodically. Composition: Deputy Assistant
   Secretary of Defense for Personnel Support, Families and Education (DASD (PSFE));
   Director, DoDEA; overseas theater commanders; and other educational professionals.
   A2.1.2. Area Advisory Council (AAC)—Theater Level: Reviews recommendations
   referred by districts or component command; meets twice a year. Composition: Component
   commanders (or designees), other agencies or organizations (e.g., American Women’s
14                                                     USAFEI36-401 8 OCTOBER 2014


  Activities in Germany, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People,
  European Congress of American Parents, Teachers and Students, National Military Family
  Association, Overseas Federation of Teachers, Federal Education Association, Federal
  Manager’s Association). Chaired by the Area Director.
  A2.1.3. District Advisory Council (DAC)—Regional Level: Advises district
  superintendents on issues, reviews issues from IAC. Composition: Determined by district
  superintendent.
  A2.1.4. Dependents     Education      Council     (DEC)—Worldwide          Level: Makes
  recommendations to ASD(FMP) regarding broad range of issues related to the administration
  of DoDEA and the delivery of high quality education overseas; meets bi-annually a year.
  Composition: General and flag officers from theater commands and military departments;
  Director, DoDEA; ASD(FMP); DASD(PSFE).
  A2.1.5. European Schools Council (ESC)—Theater Level: Reviews recommendations
  referred by DoDDS or component commands. Composition: Director of DoDDS-Europe and
  component commanders (or designees). Chaired by Chief of Staff, European Command
  (CoS, EUCOM).
  A2.1.6. Component Commanders Advisory Council (CCAC)--Major Command
  Level: If established, reviews issues raised by installation commanders and makes
  recommendations to COMUSAFE. Composition: USAFE numbered air force and wing
  commanders and Director of DoDDS-E. Chaired by USAFE/CC/CV.
  A2.1.7. Installation Advisory Committee (IAC)—Installation Level: Advises installation
  commander; meets four times yearly. At USAFE locations with more than one school, the
  term School Advisory Board (SAB) is used in place of the IAC. Composition: One staff
  person and one parent from each SAC. School principals and installation commander attend
  but do not vote.
  A2.1.8. USAFE School Advisory Board (SAB)—Installation Level: Advises installation
  commander and district superintendent; meets a minimum of once per quarter. Composition:
  Parents of students attending DoDDS schools and professional school employees, elected by
  parents and staff, and high school student representative, elected by peers.
  A2.1.9. School Advisory Committee (SAC)—Individual School Level: Provides advice
  to principal; meets at least four times a year. Composition: Parents, professional school
  employees, and students (where appropriate) elected by parents and staff.
