BY ORDER OF THE                                        HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
SUPERINTENDENT                                                          INSTRUCTION 36-2007
                                                                                         18 APRIL 2007
                                                                          Certified Current 2 March 2012
                                                                                               Personnel

                                                       APPLICATION FOR AND ADMINISTRATION
                                                              OF CADET TURNBACK PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFA/DPYQ                                                        Certified by: HQ USAFA/DPY
                                                                               (Maj Rose Marie Nikovits)
Supersedes USAFAI36-2007, 27 April 2005                                                       Pages: 14

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military
Personnel, 13 March 2001, by prescribing procedures used to administer the Turnback Programs. It
applies to all United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) cadets and agencies involved in these programs.
Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ USAFA, Director-
ate of Manpower and Personnel, Cadet Personnel Branch (HQ USAFA/DPYQ), 2360 Vandenberg Dr.,
Suite 3C24, USAF Academy CO 80840-8720, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change
of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://afrims.amc.af.mil. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.
This instruction requires Academy agencies to collect and maintain information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. United States Code (U.S.C.), Title 10, Subtitle D, Air Force, PART III, Training, Chapter
903, United States Air Force Academy, Sections 9331, Establishment; Superintendent; faculty, and 9349,
Cadets: organization; service; instruction, authorizes these agencies to maintain and collect data pre-
scribed in this publication. Letter formats and questionnaires contain a Privacy Act Statement required by
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-332, Privacy Act Program.
Units are responsible to comply in accordance with AFI 33-364, Records Disposition-Procedures and
Responsibilities for maintaining and disposing of electronic or paper records kept on file.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.


1. Administrative Turnbacks : The Administrative Turnback program is for cadets who encounter a
temporary hardship. It affords these cadets the opportunity to be away from the Academy for one or two
2                                                                     USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007


semesters in order to resolve these hardships. The program is intended to prevent resignations of cadets
otherwise able to successfully complete graduation and commissioning requirements.
    1.1. Requests for administrative turnbacks are cadet initiated.
    1.2. Requests for turnback are considered on a case-by-case basis depending on the particular circum-
    stances of each cadet. Factors to be considered in evaluating requests for administrative turnback
    include, but are not limited to: degree of hardship, estimated duration of hardship, and commitment of
    cadet to return to the cadet wing as demonstrated by cadet performance factors such as grade point
    average (GPA), military performance average (MPA), physical education average (PEA), probation
    status, and leadership potential. Cadet performance factors can show both the impact of the hardship
    on the cadet as well as their drive to excel once the hardship is overcome – each case will be unique.
    1.3. Final authority for all administrative turnback requests rests with the Superintendent, United
    States Air Force Academy (HQ USAFA/CC).

2. Procedures for Processing Turnbacks.
    2.1. The administrative turnback request is submitted to the Staff Judge Advocate (HQ USAFA/JA)
    by the cadet who will staff it through the Commandant to the Superintendent.
       2.1.1. All administrative turnback packages must contain:
           2.1.1.1. Request letter, signed by the cadet (see Attachment 2).
           2.1.1.2. One-page Cadet Personnel Summary. This summary document details the cadet per-
           formance metrics and averages – GPA, MPA, PEA, leadership courses, probations, etc.
           2.1.1.3. For temporary medical hardship requests, a medical summary of the hardship from
           the appropriate provider in the Cadet Clinic as assigned by the 10th Aerospace Medicine
           Squadron Commander (10 AMDS/CC).
       2.1.2. With the Commandant’s recommendation completed, the request is forwarded to
       HQ USAFA/JA who prepares the formal approval package for the Superintendent. Details of the
       contents of this package are determined by HQ USAFA/JA and the needs of HQ USAFA/CC.
    2.2. Process for implementation of disenrollment for Administrative Turnback is accomplished by
    initiating USAFA Form 34, Cadet Separation Clearance/Referral. If the request is approved by the
    HQ USAFA/CC, the squadron AOC will ensure the cadet completes USAFA Form 34. In addition the
    AOC will ensure the cadet has completed the memorandum for record (MFR) with Vice Commandant
    of Cadets, Culture and Climate (HQ USAFA/CWP) and confirm with Command Section all inter-
    views with Commanders have been completed. After receiving a completed USAFA Form 34 from
    the cadet, both the squadron and group AOCs will make a recommendation for future officer training
    and provide comments. When this is complete, the cadet will be notified by the squadron AOC that
    the cadet must contact HQ USAFA/JA to set up an appointment to review the application. The cadet
    must hand-carry the request and endorsements to HQ USAFA/JA, who is responsible for processing
    it.
USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007                                                                                   3


3. Departure Responsibilities.
   3.1. Cadets on Administrative Turnback incur a “leave without pay and allowances” status and will
   remain in this status until final disposition is determined.
   3.2. Cadets will retain their Identification (ID) cards and all active duty benefits, such as commissary,
   base exchange, and medical and dental care.
   3.3. Cadets are responsible for and must agree to the conditions of acceptance for Administrative
   Turnback before departing the Air Force Academy. The requesting cadet must agree to:
       3.3.1. Store all uniforms at the Academy during the Administrative Turnback period. The Squad-
       ron AOC is responsible for securing this property during the absence of the cadet.
       3.3.2. Procure personal travel arrangements to and from the Air Force Academy and pay all travel
       expenses. Travel expenses will not be reimbursed.
       3.3.3. Surrender any government travel and (or) credit cards to the squadron AOC. AOC will
       close and discard the government travel card. AOC will reissue a government travel card to the
       cadet upon return to the Academy.
       3.3.4. Contact USAFA Cadet Clinic to receive authorization/information regarding medical or
       dental care. However, in an emergency that could result in a loss of life, limb, or sight they may go
       to a civilian medical facility at the government's expense in accordance with existing military
       health care (TRICARE) restrictions. (Civilian medical facilities send requests for payment to Tri-
       West, PO Box 77028, Madison, WI 53707, phone 888-874-9378).
       3.3.5. Sign and submit relevant attachments to this instruction, as determined by HQ USAFA/JA.
       3.3.6. Keep HQ USAFA/DPYQ and the squadron AOC apprised of current mailing address and
       phone number at all times during the period of Administrative Turnback.
       3.3.7. In the case of Administrative Turnback for pregnancy, legal documentation is required
       before returning to the Academy clearly showing proof of complete relinquishment of parental
       duties and rights (i.e. adoption certificate, and not powers of attorney, contract for care, etc.) suffi-
       cient to permanently extinguish any and all obligations to the child(ren) under the laws of the
       cadet’s state of residence and (or) the United States. HQ USAFA/DPYQ will forward to
       HQ USAFA/JA for legal sufficiency. This requirement is in accordance with Title 10, United
       States Code as expressed in Department of Defense Instruction 1322.22, Service Academies (24
       Aug 94), paragraph 4.3.5.4. “Marital Status. Those appointed as cadets or midshipmen may not be
       married, and shall have no dependents.”
       3.3.8. Cadets are responsible for completing USAFA Form 34; making an appointment and meet-
       ing with HQ USAFA/JA; attending a briefing at HQ USAFA/DPYQ; clearing base agencies; and
       departing the installation.
   3.4. The Vice Commandant of Cadets, Culture and Climate, will prepare a memorandum for record
   (MFR) detailing the specific requirements that must be met upon the cadet’s return to the academy.
   This MFR will be kept with HQ USAFA/CWP and signed by the cadet and HQ USAFA/CWP prior to
   the cadet departing USAFA. This MFR will make clear official expectations for return and to enable
   the cadet the greatest opportunity for success once they return.
   3.5. HQ USAFA/JA will:
4                                                                     USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007


       3.5.1. Brief the cadet on Administrative Turnback requirements and schedule an out-processing
       appointment for the cadet with HQ USAFA/DPYQ.
       3.5.2. Forward the request to the Superintendent for approval or disapproval. The Superintendent
       may refer the case to the Academy Board for advice prior to making a decision.
       3.5.3. Notify the Commandant of Cadets (HQ USAFA/CW) of the Superintendent’s decision.
       Notification will flow through the HQ USAFA/CW Chain of Command to the squadron AOC.
       The squadron AOC will instruct the cadet to contact HQ USAFA/JA.
       3.5.4. Schedule an out-processing appointment for the cadet with HQ USAFA/DPYQ.
       3.5.5. Brief the cadet on requirements for leave without pay and allowances status.
       3.5.6. Update all pertinent return information in the disenrollment database for use by
       HQ USAFA/DPYQ.
       3.5.7. Notify HQ USAFA/DPYQ cadet is cleared to complete final outprocessing and depart
       USAFA.
    3.6. HQ USAFA/DPYQ will:
       3.6.1. Brief the cadet on his/her responsibility to clear all base agencies before departing the
       installation using USAFA Form 91, Cadet Outgoing Clearance, or USAFA Form 91-1, Basic
       Cadet Outgoing Clearance. The USAFA Form 91-1 will be used during Basic Training (Jul –
       Aug) timeframe for basic cadets only.
       3.6.2. Establish a final out-processing date with the cadet.
       3.6.3. Brief the cadet on actions required to return to the Air Force Academy.
       3.6.4. Publish appropriate leave without pay orders.
          3.6.4.1. The travel order will include the cadet’s return information.
       3.6.5. Verify outprocessing checklist is complete; confirm with HQ USAFA/JA cadet is cleared to
       depart. Outprocess cadet.
       3.6.6. Update Administrative Turnback duty status code “1” in the Cadet Administrative Manage-
       ment Information System (CAMIS).

4. Terminating Administrative Turnback.
    4.1. HQ USAFA/DPYQ will:
       4.1.1. Contact summer returnees in March and spring returnees in October to determine their
       desire to return. Each June, July, or August and January cadets that are returning from Administra-
       tive Turnback are required to in-process. Cadets will report to HQ USAFA/DPYQ as indicated on
       their Leave Without Pay Orders. Cadets who left during basic will report to Doolittle Hall on
       inprocessing day with the new class.
       4.1.2. Mail the appropriate questionnaire, Attachment 3 or Attachment 4, to the cadet for their
       completion and return.
USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007                                                                              5


      4.1.3. Forward negative questionnaires (i.e. Attachment 3 or Attachment 4 that express a cadet’s
      intention NOT to return to the Air Force Academy) AND the names of cadets who did not return
      questionnaires to HQ USAFA/JA and start disenrollment procedures.
      4.1.4. Contact HQ USAFA, Dean of Faculty, Registrar (HQ USAFA/DFR), for new class year for
      returning cadets.
      4.1.5. Contact Cadet Standardization Evaluation and Discipline (HQ USAFA/CWVV) for new
      squadron assignments for returning cadets.
      4.1.6. Notify Admissions (HQ USAFA/RRS) and Institutional Plans, Programs, and Research
      Division (HQ USAFA/XPXR) of all returning turnbacks including name, new class year and new
      squadron.
      4.1.7. Contact CAMIS Support (10 CS/SCRSC) to obtain mailbox numbers for returning cadets.
      Upon notification of numbers, update CAMIS appropriately.
      4.1.8. Upon the cadet’s return to the Air Force Academy, immediately:
            4.1.8.1. Brief the cadet on his or her responsibility to in-process through base agencies using
            USAFA Form 92, Cadet In-processing Checklist. The cadet is given thirty days to complete
            the USAFA Form 92. It is then submitted to HQ USAFA/DPYQ and filed in the CPR-1.
            4.1.8.2. Schedule a urinalysis appointment which must be accomplished on that date within
            two hours of notification.
   4.2. HQ USAFA/JA will:
      4.2.1. Date and process the tender of resignation for any Administrative Turnback cadet who
      elects not to return to the Air Force Academy. If the cadet resigns, he or she is not relieved of any
      incurred active duty service commitment.
      4.2.2. Process and coordinate with the Superintendent any requests for earlier return or an exten-
      sion to the return date from Administrative Turnback period. A cadet should not return to the Air
      Force Academy before the scheduled return date without prior approval of the Superintendent.
      The Superintendent must approve or disapprove the cadet’s request for an earlier return date.
      4.2.3. Cadets may request an earlier return date or an extension by sending a Memorandum for
      Record (MFR) to HQ USAFA/JA, requesting a new return at least 2 months before the beginning
      of the semester in which the cadet was scheduled to return. The Superintendent is the approval
      authority for earlier returns and extensions.

5. Forms:
   5.1. Prescribed. USAFA Form 34, Cadet Separation Clearance/Referral; USAFA Form 91, Cadet
   Outgoing Clearance; USAFA Form 91-1, Basic Cadet Outgoing Clearance; and USAFA Form 92,
   Cadet In-Processing Checklist.
6                                                              USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007


    5.2. Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.



                                           KATHRYN G. STATEN, Colonel, USAF
                                           Director of Manpower and Personnel
USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007                                                                            7


                                             Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI33-332, Privacy Act Program
AFI33-364, Records Disposition-Procedures and Responsibilities
AFPD36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel
AFMAN37-123, Management of Records
Title 10, U.S.C., Section 9331, Establishment; Superintendent; faculty
Title 10, U.S.C., Section 9349, Cadets: organization; service; instruction

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
HQ—Headquarters
HOR—Home of Record
MFR—Memorandum for the Record
TRICARE—Military health care system
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ID—Identification
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Academy Board—Advisory panel convened by the Superintendent. Compiled of members representing
the Commandant of Cadets, Dean of Faculty, and Director of Athletics.
Administrative Turnback—requested by a cadet because of a hardship of a temporary nature –either
personal or medical.
Leave Without Pay and Allowances—Leave status granted to cadets for the purpose of participating in
the Administrative Turnback program. Cadets are not eligible for pay and allowances during this period;
however retain their military ID card and all active duty benefits.
Temporary Personal Hardship—Generally involves an exceptional set of circumstances, significantly
impacting an individual cadet, immediate family member, or person having significant influence in the
cadet’s life that cannot be resolved if the cadet remains in attendance at USAFA or during a short period
8                                                                     USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007


of leave from USAFA. Temporary hardships must normally be resolved within two semesters and allow
for the cadet’s complete return to cadet duties at the end of the absence. Examples of temporary hardships
include, but are not limited to: pregnancy, family emergency, or other personal crisis.
Temporary Medical Hardship—Generally involves a medical condition that is not one which would
trigger a Medical Evaluation Board (MEB). The temporary medical hardship may be recovery from
mononucleosis, broken limb(s), etc., that would preclude full and active participation in cadet duties. The
purpose of the temporary medical hardship is to provide the cadet maximum opportunity to heal as
quickly as possible and thereby enabling continued success as an active cadet and officer candidate.
USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007                                                                                   9


                                                Attachment 2

                 SAMPLE APPLICATION FOR ADMINISTRATIVE TURNBACK
                        (Use standard HQ USAFA or USAFA/CW Letterhead)


                                                                                               Date


MEMORANDUM FOR HQ USAFA/CW


FROM: CS-01 (C3C Smith, Xavier J., 999999999)


SUBJECT: Request for Administrative Turnback


1. Request I be granted administrative turnback status for (choose one: temporary personal hardship or
temporary medical hardship.                                                                         (Sum-
marize the circumstances resulting in the request. Be specific and provide enough detail to clearly present
the need for the request.)


2. I have attempted to obtain support from my family; however, they are unable to assist for the following
reasons:


       -       Family member #1 name, relationship (age if sibling – natural, step, or adopted). Reason.
       -       Family member #1 name, relationship (age if sibling – natural, step, or adopted). Reason.
       -       Family member #3, etc…


3. I understand that, if this request is approved, I will not be authorized travel pay nor will I be entitled to
pay and allowances during the period I am away from the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA). I
also understand that I will not be permitted to withdraw my accrued funds from my Cadet Personal Invest-
ment Trust Fund account either prior to or during the Administrative Turnback period.


4. I understand that I may incur additional expenses for uniforms, equipment, etc. upon my return.


5. I understand that upon my return to the Air Force Academy, disenrollment procedures may begin
against me if:
10                                                                                             USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007


          a. I was arrested, convicted, or fined for a violation of the law.


     b. I did not uphold the Cadet Honor Code or I behaved in a manner unacceptable to the status of a
USAFA cadet.


          c. I acquired dependents or a legal responsibility to support or care for dependents.
6. I understand I will be required to sign an undated Tender of Resignation and approve its execution in
the event that:


          a. I do not return on the scheduled date; or


          b. I request (in writing) that USAFA accept my resignation; or


          c. I do not respond to attempts to contact me.




          C3C XAVIER J. SMITH
          999-99-9999, CS-01




_______
AUTHORITY: Title 10 USC 9331 and 9349.

PRINCIPAL PURPOSE: For member to state his/her reasons for requesting an absence from the Academy.

ROUTINE USE: To evaluate member's request for Administrative Turnback.

DISCLOSURE IS VOLUNTARY. However, failure to provide the requested information could result in denial of Administrative Turnback.
USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007                                                                               11


                                              Attachment 3

                       QUESTIONNAIRE: ADMINISTRATIVE RETURNEE
           (Do Not Use This Questionnaire for Administrative Turnbacks for Pregnancy)


Intention to Return: This questionnaire MUST be returned to HQ USAFA/DPYQ No Later Than
________ with Parts I and II completed and signed. Reporting instructions and return date are indicated
on back of Leave-Without-Pay Orders. Return the questionnaire in the included self-addressed envelope.


Intention NOT to Return: Complete Part I only and return the questionnaire No Later Than ________.
Your case will be forwarded to the Legal office for disenrollment. Return the questionnaire in the included
self-addressed envelope.


YOUR FAILURE TO RETURN THIS QUESTIONNAIRE BY THE AFOREMENTIONED SUS-
PENSE DATE WILL RESULT IN YOUR RESIGNATION PAPERWORK BEING FORWARDED
TO THE LEGAL OFFICE FOR PROCESSING.


                                                  PART I


( ) I desire to reenter the Cadet Wing and will report for a reentrance medical examination.
( ) I decline to return to the USAF Academy and request my resignation be accepted.




         Signature here                                Date Here
(Signature)                                   (Date)

                                                 PART II
                                          (Complete if returning)


Answer with a “yes” or “no” the following questions. During your absence, did you: (Circle one)


1. Use, possess, or distribute cocaine, marijuana, LSD, or any other illegal substance as defined by Article
112a, UCMJ?                                                                          YES/NO
12                                                                                                USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007


2. Get married?                                                                                                 YES/NO


3. Acquire a legal obligation to support a dependent(s)                                                         YES/NO


4. Get arrested, convicted, or fined for any violation of the law, to INCLUDE traffic violations?
                                                                                                                YES/NO


5. Commit any breach of conduct as defined by Air Force, USAFA, or Cadet Wing instructions?
                                                                             YES/NO


If you answered "YES" to any question, provide complete details to include, if applicable, the time and
date of an incident, the name and location of the court, and disposition of the case.
Provide complete details here




I understand I may bring back all selected cadet issue items that are in serviceable condition upon medical
clearance. For basic cadets this includes items issued the previous year. I also understand I may be
charged for items that are unserviceable or pertain to the new class year I will be assigned to.


Please contact Cadet Personnel at (719) 333-3244 for additional information.




             Signature here                                               Date Here
(Signature)                                                   (Date)




_______
AUTHORITY: Title 10 USC 9331 and 9349.

PRINCIPAL PURPOSE: For member to disclose whether he/she is qualified to return to the Academy.

ROUTINE USE: To evaluate member's application to return to the Academy.

DISCLOSURE IS VOLUNTARY. However, failure to provide the requested information could result in disenrollment.
USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007                                                                              13


                                              Attachment 4

    QUESTIONNAIRE: ADMINISTRATIVE TURNBACK FOR PREGNANCY RETURNEE
Intention to Return: This questionnaire MUST be returned to HQ USAFA/DPYQ No Later Than
________ with Parts I and II completed and signed. Reporting instructions and return date are indicated
on the backside of your Leave-Without-Pay Orders. Return the questionnaire in the included
self-addressed envelope.


Intention NOT to Return: Complete Part I only and return the questionnaire No Later Than ________.
Your case will be forwarded to the Legal office for disenrollment. Return the questionnaire in the included
self-addressed envelope.


YOUR FAILURE TO RETURN THIS QUESTIONNAIRE BY THE AFOREMENTIONED SUS-
PENSE DATE WILL RESULT IN YOUR RESIGNATION PAPERWORK BEING FORWARDED
TO THE LEGAL OFFICE FOR PROCESSING.


                                                  PART I


( ) I desire to reenter the Cadet Wing and will report for a reentrance medical examination.
( ) I decline to return to the USAF Academy and request my resignation be accepted.




         Signature here                                Date Here
(Signature)                                   (Date)


                                                 PART II
                                          (Complete if returning)


Answer with a “yes” or “no” the following questions. During your absence, did you: (Circle one)


1. Use, possess, or distribute cocaine, marijuana, LSD, or any other illegal substance as defined by Article
112a, UCMJ?                                                                          YES/NO


2. Get married?                                                                      YES/NO
14                                                                                                USAFAI36-2007 18 APRIL 2007


3. Regarding dependents:


          a. Legally terminate all obligations to support a child or children?
                                                                                                       YES/NO


          b. Obtain documentation to prove your status? (Please include a copy)
                                                                                                                YES/NO
4. Get arrested, convicted, or fined for any violation of the law, to INCLUDE traffic violations?
                                                                                    YES/NO


5. Commit any breach of conduct as defined by Air Force, USAFA, or Cadet Wing instructions that would
disqualify you from returning to the Academy?                                  YES/NO


If you answered "YES" to questions 1, 2, 4, or 5, or “NO” to question 3a or 3b, provide complete details
to include, if applicable, the time and date of an incident, the name and location of the court, and disposi-
tion of the case.
Provide complete details here




I understand I may bring back all selected cadet issue items that are in serviceable condition upon medical
clearance. For basic cadets this includes items issued the previous year. I also understand I may be
charged for items that are unserviceable or pertain to the new class year I will be assigned to. Please con-
tact Cadet Issue at (719) 333-3218 for additional information.




             Signature here                                               Date Here
(Signature)                                                   (Date)




_________
AUTHORITY: Title 10 USC 9331 and 9349.
PRINCIPAL PURPOSE: For member to disclose whether he/she is qualified to return to the Academy.

ROUTINE USE: To evaluate member's application to return to the Academy.

DISCLOSURE IS VOLUNTARY. However, failure to provide the requested information could result in disenrollment.
