                              Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                             USAFE Instruction 36-3102
COMMANDER US AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                                    30 JANUARY 1998
                                                                      Certified current 24 October 2011
                                                                                              Personnel

                                                                          USAFE RETIREE COUNCIL




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: Download publications and forms from the USAFE Publications Management Home Page:
"www.usafe.af.mil/direct/foas/css/sb/scbp/pdl/publish.htm."


OPR: HQ USAFE/DPPF (CMSgt Farrin)                          Certified by: HQ USAFE/DPP (Lt Col Cook)
Supersedes USAFER 211-15, 3 November 1992                                                   Pages: 3
                                                                                     Distribution: F

This publication implements AFPD 36-31, Personal Affairs, and establishes the United States Air Forces
in Europe (USAFE) retiree councils at command and base level. It sets the purpose, responsibilities, and
general operating principles for councils, and defines budgeting and temporary duty (TDY) travel param-
eters for council members.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This edition allows for council membership from all USAFE main operating bases (MOB) (paragraph
3.1). A margin bar indicates changes from the previous edition.

1. Purpose and Objective:
   1.1. Serve as the USAFE/CC’s and local commander’s personal liaison with retired Air Force person-
   nel residing in Europe.
   1.2. Foster a sense of community among active duty and retired Air Force members.
   1.3. Provide Air Force retirees with a means to discuss, review, and make recommendations on deci-
   sions, policies, and laws that affect them.
   1.4. Improve community relations and encourage and aid public understanding of Air Force policy.

2. Responsibilities. Bases may supplement this instruction to define local responsibilities, organizations,
and operational procedures. The following USAFE council responsibilities can be adapted to local cir-
cumstances:
   2.1. Serves as commander’s advisors and representatives for the local retiree activities program (AFI
   36-3106) including, but not limited to, activities and functions performed by retiree activities offices
   (RAO) and retiree associations.
   2.2. Becomes associated with a local RAO for administrative and logistical support.
   2.3. Communicates with other councils and members on matters of mutual concern, countrywide
   impact, or USAFE-wide scope.
   2.4. Works directly with RAO directors on matters of interest.
   2.5. Obtains proposed issues from local RAO directors prior to the annual council meetings.
   2.6. Seeks guidance and support, as required, from Retiree Activities Branch (HQ AFPC/DPMARR).
   2.7. Provides topics and positions on retiree issues at annual council meetings.
   2.8. Contacts active duty coordinator (deputy installation commander or equivalent) at area bases to
   request temporary duty (TDY) funds to support required travel.
   2.9. Works with military-affiliated organizations and appropriate government agencies.
   2.10. Ensures RAO support and involvement with local Air Force recruiters.
   2.11. Establishes area workshops when there is a need.
   2.12. Monitors area retiree programs, establishing and maintaining support with installation com-
   manders.
   2.13. Encourages commanders and active duty coordinators to support RAOs.
   2.14. Works closely with federal benefits agencies at American Embassies, military casualty affairs
   representatives, personnel, and finance offices to ensure all benefit entitlements due to eligible retirees
   and widows or widowers of deceased retirees are received in a timely manner.
   2.15. When possible and when requested, organizes and arranges military honor guard or funeral for
   deceased U.S. Forces retired personnel. (Burial flags can be obtained from the American Embassy.)

3. Organization:
   3.1. Each MOB should have a RAO with an appointed director according to AFI 36-3106. Council
   membership consists of the appointed directors or, in their absence, deputy directors as designated.
   Where no RAO exists, the nearest active RAO will represent that area. The main goal is that retirees
   and widows or widowers of deceased retirees have a focal point of contact for problems or perceived
   problems. The RAO at Aviano AB, Italy, is the focal point for all RAOs south of the Alps; the RAO
   at RAF Mildenhall, United Kingdom, is the focal point for all RAOs north of the Alps. Force Pro-
   grams Branch (HQ USAFE/DPPF) serves as the active Air Force liaison to the council.
   3.2. Council members, in addition to appointed RAOs, are selected by the USAFE Retiree Council
   subject to the concurrence of the Director of Personnel (HQ USAFE/DP).
   3.3. Each council member’s term of service is four years, subject to annual review by the USAFE
   Retiree Council. At end of a 4-year term, a member desiring to continue service on the council must
   apply and be selected.
   3.4. Any member may resign from the council by submitting a written request to the president.
   3.5. A member may be removed for cause by majority vote of the council membership.
   3.6. USAFE’s representative to the Air Force Retiree Council should be a member of this Council. It
   would be advantageous to have the USAFE Retiree Council president fill both jobs (application is


                                                 2
   required according to AFI 36-3106). Terms for Air Force Council membership are usually 4 years
   (AFI 36-3106, paragraph 3).

4. Operation:
   4.1. The council will meet annually at a venue determined by the council president.
   4.2. Officers are president, vice president, and secretary.
   4.3. Officers are elected for a 4-year term.
   4.4. A majority of members present at the council meeting will decide the agenda and conduct meet-
   ings according to accepted parliamentary procedures. A quorum will consist of the majority of mem-
   bers. Each member will have one vote and must vote in person. Voting rights will not exceed the
   number of primary members.
   4.5. The council may be dissolved by a majority vote of the members, or by direction of the Com-
   mander (USAFE/CC).

5. Travel and Funding:
   5.1. Use appropriate travel orders according to the Joint Federal Travel Regulation to cover necessary
   expenses of council members (including retired military and Department of Defense employees).
   5.2. ROAs budget fund requirements for this program with approval by the active duty coordinator as
   appropriate for submission through budget channels.
   5.3. Report problems concerning council member funding to the active duty coordinator or focal con-
   tact at HQ USAFE/DPPF.




                                         DOYLE D. BROWN, Colonel, USAF
                                         Director of Personnel




                                                  3
