BY ORDER OF THE                                          HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                           ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 16-501

                                                                       10 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                          Operations Support

                                                             STRATEGIC PLANNING AND
                                                                      PROGRAMMING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/A8A                                              Certified by: HQ USAFA/A8A
                                                                       (Mr. Steven Sandridge)
Supersedes:   USAFAI16-501,                                                         Pages: 16
              30 September 2008


This instruction implements the programming portion of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD)
16-5, Planning, Programming and Budgeting System (PPBS), 27 September 2010 and AFI
16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs, 15 August 2006. Use this
instruction along with Department of Defense (DoD) Instruction 5000.2, Operation of the
Defense Acquisition System, 8 December 2008; DoD Instruction 7045.7, Implementation of the
Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System, 23 May 1984, with Change 1, 9 April 1987; and
Management Initiative Decision (MID) 913, Implementation of a 2-Year Planning,
Programming, Budgeting and Execution Process, 22 May 2003. MID 913 increased the
effectiveness of AF Planning, Programming, and Budgeting and added additional emphasis to
Execution. The process is known as the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
(PPBE) process. This instruction defines PPBE responsibilities for HQ USAFA and Academy
Mission Partners. This instruction also describes how the Academy Strategic Planning process
implements PPBE and will assist in the timely publication of the Air Force Academy Program
Objective Memorandum (POM). This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force
(AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AF Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.
 2                                                     USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document updates corporate body membership, changes POM oversight responsibility from
HQ USAFA/FM to HQ USAFA/A8A, and clarifies programmatic and budget programming
responsibilities and timelines.
1. USAFA Strategic Planning and Programming System.
1.1. Purpose. This instruction describes the roles, responsibilities, and processes the Academy
uses to strategically plan, program, budget, and execute its mission. The Academy’s strategic
plan guides all of our planning and programming activities by identifying goals and objectives
for the next several years. The Academy’s resource management process uses a streamlined
implementation of the Air Force Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution (PPBE)
system (Attachment 2). These four interrelated PPBE phases align Academy objectives,
policies, and strategies with the Air Force. The phases include capability requirements
(Planning), matching them with resource requirements (Programming), translating them into
budget proposals (Budgeting), and evaluating spending (Execution) to determine how well the
desired capabilities are achieved.
     1.2. Overview. The Academy strategic planning and programming system (Figure 1.) is
     centered on the three key activities of assess, plan, and execute.

Figure 1. Academy Strategic Planning System.
USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                3


     1.2.1. Assess. USAFA’s Institutional Effectiveness Program (IEP) (USAFAI 36-3502)
     assesses the effectiveness of Academy programs, Academy outcomes, and our strategic
     goals and objectives. The IEP empowers the Monitoring and Implementation Team
     (MIT, Figure 3.) to strategically align assessment and appraisal efforts to sustain an
     institutionally effective, operationally relevant, mission-focused environment. The
     annual Institutional Effectiveness Report highlights gaps to be addressed in future
     strategic plan reviews. The Academy Strategic Plan contains strategic Institutional
     Effectiveness Indicators (IEI) the Academy uses to track the progress of implementing its
     USAFA Strategic Plan.
     1.2.2. Plan. Planning is comprised of both planning and programming: identifying what
     the institution wants to do (planning) and how it will secure the required resources
     (programming) via our POM submission. The Strategic Plan guides the Academy’s
     programming activities and influences current-year budget cuts and internal resource
     realignments. The Academy uses a streamlined version of the Air Force Planning,
     Programming, Budgeting, and Execution system (Attachment 2) to develop and execute
     its budget activities.
     1.2.3. Execute. The Staff and Mission Partners (MPs) develop and implement
     supporting plans and initiatives to achieve our strategic goals and objectives. This phase
     tracks planned program actions (POM) against actual spending (budget) to ensure the
     Academy implements its program resources accordingly.
  1.3. Activity View.
 4                                                      USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011


Figure 2. provides an expanded view of these strategic activities including their purpose,
organization, governance, key products and inputs, and event timing.

Figure 2. Academy Strategic Activities Breakdown.




     1.4. Governance. The Academy strategic planning and programming governance model
     (Figure 3.) is based on elements of the HQ Air Force strategic planning process outlined in
     the 2008 AF Strategic Plan combined with portions of the Air Force corporate programming
     and budgeting structure. This organizational structure is responsible for both strategic
     planning and resource programming activities at the Academy.
USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011                                                             5


Figure 3. Academy Strategic Planning and Programming Governance Model.




2. Roles and Responsibilities.
   2.1. Headquarters, USAF Academy. The headquarters will:
       2.1.1. Propose new initiatives to the Air Force Academy Corporate Structure (AFACS).
       Develop and distribute Air Force and Academy program guidance and program
       development instructions to Academy Mission Partners.
       2.1.2. Implement HAF programming directives and POM submission guidance and
       ensure the HAF-approved Academy program (POM) is reflected in the Future Years
       Defense Program (FYDP).
       2.1.3. Ensure appropriate amendments to program guidance and directives are
       interpreted and implemented.
       2.1.4. Adjudicate and prioritize new Academy initiatives and program changes. Approve
       all new Academy programs and direct Academy program changes within the range of
       Academy approval authority, funding, and manpower.
       2.1.5. Develop and submit the Academy POM to HAF.
   2.2. Mission Partners. Academy MPs will submit new initiatives or program adjustments
   to HQ USAFA as required. These agencies will:
 6                                                      USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011


        2.2.1. Comply with program guidance issued by HQ USAF and HQ USAFA.
        2.2.2. Submit program data and briefings IAW HQ USAFA published direction. Figure
        5. depicts a sample activity schedule.
        2.2.3. Coordinate with other MPs as appropriate to translate the Superintendent’s
        requirements and direction into programmatic terms, to include program elements and
        required funding.
        2.2.4. Provide POM, program adjustment, and execution year initiative submissions
        highlighting Superintendent’s requirements and priorities. Include rationale for any
        shortfalls in funding needed to support Superintendent’s requirements.
        2.2.5. Submit requests for out of cycle program changes, which have been staffed and
        coordinated with all other affected MPs.
        2.2.6. Implement HQ USAFA approved Air Force Academy program as directed.
     2.3. HQ USAFA/A5/8/9. The Strategic Plans and Programs, Requirements, Assessment and
     Analyses directorate has overall administrative responsibility for reviewing, updating, and
     maintaining the USAFA Strategic Plan. A5/8/9 is responsible to the Superintendent for
     establishing guidelines and procedures supporting plans and initiatives and for providing
     updated guidance for the overall Academy strategic planning process. A5/8/9 serves as the
     Superintendent’s strategic planning advisor and coordinates any timeline or other exceptions
     with applicable Academy instructions. The Directorate is also the agency focal point for all
     POM submission and issues. The Directorate:
        2.3.1. Has overall responsibility for performance measuring and reporting elements of
        the USAFA Strategic Plan.
        2.3.2. Assists the MIT in developing/revising additional strategic institutional
        effectiveness measures. Provides analytical expertise and counsel to the MIT and MPs to
        determine the most effective indicators for assessing the accomplishment of strategic
        goals and objectives.
        2.3.3. Ensures all effectiveness metrics are updated at least biannually and presented for
        leadership review at MIT and SSG reviews.
        2.3.4. Satisfies any external reporting requirements on the performance of the USAFA
        Strategic Plan.
        2.3.5. Consolidates any Academy-wide feedback or ideas and forwards this information
        to the MIT.
        2.3.6. Serves as the USAFA focal point for all POM related issues. Coordinates on each
        approved Disconnect (D), Initiative (I), or Offset (O) to ensure proper budget level
        review of POM submissions.
        2.3.7. Manages scheduling, agenda, and minutes for all MIT and SSG meetings.
3. Air Force Academy Corporate Structure (AFACS).
     3.1. Overview. The Air Force Academy implements its strategic planning, programming,
     and budgeting processes through the AFACS. The strength of the AFACS is the consistency
     of reviews tied to successive evaluation by grade level and experience within the functional
USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                   7


   staff (i.e., HQ USAFA, CW, 10 ABW, etc.). This approach enhances decision-making and
   provides balance when making resource allocation decisions. The AFACS increases overall
   management effectiveness by applying cross-functional judgment, experience, and analysis
   to program adjustments in a resource-limited environment.
       3.1.1. The AFACS presents the best courses of action to the Superintendent for making
       programmatic and resource-based decisions. The top-down deliberative elements of the
       AFACS are the Strategic Steering Group (SSG) and the Monitoring and Implementation
       Team (MIT). The AFACS is guided by the Air Force and USAFA Strategic Plans and
       annual corporate Air Force programming guidance. The goals of the AFACS are to:
       provide a prioritized, multifunctional, cross-staff perspective on all key Academy
       programs; enhance responsiveness to program issues; support corporate decision-making
       through interaction with the MIT; improve the corporate decision-making process across
       organizations. Figure 4. is a graphical depiction of the AFACS that identifies the
       Academy’s strategic planning, programming, and budget execution management
       structure.

Figure 4. Academy Strategic Planning, Programming, and Budget Execution Structure.
                           Development,     Corporate
                           Discussion &     Review &
                           Analysis         Approval

 Planning
 Strategic Planning             MIT           SSG

 Programming
 POM                            MIT           SSG


 Execution
 Budget                        FWG             FMB



FMB – Financial Management Board
FWG – Financial Working Group
MIT – Monitoring and Implementation Team
SSG – Strategic Steering Group



   3.2. Strategic Steering Group (SSG). The SSG is the senior forum for cross-functional
   consideration of the most critical Academy strategic planning and programming issues. The
   group is chaired by USAFA/CC with membership consisting of USAFA/CV, AD, CW, DF,
   PL, CDO, 10 ABW/CC and CCC. Advisors include A1, A5/8/9, A6, A7, CM, FM, HC, IG,
   JA, RR, SE, Transformation Chair, financial working group representatives and 306 FTG or
   as requested by the SSG.
       3.2.1. Strategic Planning. The SSG is responsible for overall management oversight of
       the Strategic Plan. The SSG prioritizes programs and initiatives, sponsors initiatives, and
       approves changes to the Strategic Plan. The Vice Superintendent is responsible for
       effective implementation of the Strategic Plan and acts on behalf of the Superintendent to
       ensure Mission Partners are executing their supporting initiatives in a timely manner.
8                                                        USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011


       3.2.2. Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution. The SSG reviews and acts on
       programmatic recommendations from the MIT and produces the Academy’s POM
       submission. The group also provides expeditious coordination on significant, urgent, and
       complex issues to ensure that Academy plans, polices, and programs comply with Air
       Force objectives.
    3.3. Monitoring and Implementation Team (MIT). This team is the Academy center of
    strategy development, institutional effectiveness, programming expertise, and program
    review and is the first level of corporate deliberation. The team serves as the initial point of
    entry for Staff or MPs forwarding strategic issues, program adjustments, POM initiatives,
    FYDP reductions, or other issues requiring corporate review. The MIT is chaired by
    USAFA/CV and membership consists of Vices from USAFA/AD, CW, DF, PL, CDO,
    10 ABW/CV and CCC. Advisors include A1, A5/8/9, A6, A7, CM, FM, HC, IG, JA, RR,
    SE, Transformation Chair, financial working group representatives and 306 FTG or as
    requested by the MIT.
       3.3.1. Strategic Planning. The MIT will monitor the overall attainment of the strategic
       priorities, goals, and objectives. They will provide the SSG periodic progress updates
       and determine any significant changes to strategic goals and objectives. The MIT will
       also oversee the Institutional Effectiveness Program to sustain an institutionally effective,
       operationally relevant, mission-focused environment. They will recommend changes to
       continuously align the strategic Goals and Objectives with changing Academy, Air Force,
       and DoD demands. Additionally, in concert with key milestones defined by the strategic
       planning, institutional effectiveness, and budget programming processes, the team will:
           3.3.1.1. Meet to confirm direction and modify strategic goals and objectives to
           satisfy emerging requirements.
           3.3.1.2. Develop goal performance metrics to evaluate goal achievement in
           accordance with the USAFAI 36-3502, Institutional Effectiveness Program (IEP).
           3.3.1.3. Prepare performance reports explaining progress in achieving strategic goals
           and associated objectives.
           3.3.1.4. Manage the development of ME and cross-functional program
           implementation plans necessary for the achievement of strategic goals including
           specific actions to successfully complete supporting initiatives.
               3.3.1.4.1. Report progress against Strategic Plan performance metrics and track
               supporting plan milestone achievement.
               3.3.1.4.2. Identify and report constraints with programmatic, technical, or other
               recommendations to mitigate risk.
       3.3.2. Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution. The MIT evaluates Academy
       program objectives, policies, plans, budgets, and studies. The MIT also develops and
       presents a prioritized list of POM initiatives and changes to the SSG. The MIT also
       reviews proposed program additions or changes for institutional impact and effectiveness.
       MPs will provide the MIT their program proposals and POM initiatives IAW published
       guidance and schedule. The MIT will:
USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                 9


         3.3.2.1. Strive to adequately balance the costs associated with implementing the
         strategic goals and objectives and competing program demands against current
         obligations.
         3.3.2.2. Solicit inputs from Mission Partners, the Facilities Panel, the Information
         Technology Management Board (ITMB), and Academy Staff.
         3.3.2.3. Provide guidance to USAFA/A8A in the distribution and programmatic
         assessment of non-programmatic, execution-year cuts. An established working
         relationship between the Mission Partners, the MIT, USAFA/A8A, and USAFA/FM
         ensures funding ramps are avoided when possible and explained to the proper level of
         fidelity. This relationship also protects corporate intent when last minute,
         undistributed cuts emerge during the fall review.
         3.3.2.4. Coordinate assignment changes to existing Program Elements in preparation
         for Superintendent and HAF approval (see section 4.3.1.).
         3.3.2.5. Review and recommend the annual fiscal year execution plan for SSG
         approval.
         3.3.2.6. Review and recommend program changes to Mission Partner and/or the SSG
         for approval.
   3.4. Mission Partners. AcademyMPs will:
      3.4.1. Develop implementation plans or initiatives supporting USAFA strategic goals,
      outcomes, and the Air Force institutional competencies (GOCs) in accordance with the
      format guidelines issued by USAFA/A5/8/9.
      3.4.2. Update existing organizational level plans or initiatives to align with and support
      the USAFA Strategic Plan and USAFA GOCs at the next scheduled interval in their
      organizational planning cycle, or within 90 days of Academy Strategic Plan publication,
      whichever is earlier.
      3.4.3. If MPs have published strategic plans within the six months preceding publication
      of the USAFA Strategic Plan, they will issue a change that addresses any disconnects
      between their existing plan and the USAFA Strategic Plan within three months. They
      will work closely with HQ USAFA/A5/8/9 to implement specific actions within their
      areas of responsibility to successfully achieve their plan goals and objectives.
   3.5. Schedule.
      3.5.1. Process timing is on a calendar year schedule. Refer to Air Force POM
      Preparation Instruction (PPI), DoD Instruction 7045.7, and HQ USAFA/A8A guidance
      for actual calendar of events. Example POM programming cycles are depicted at Figure
      5.

Figure 5. Sample POM Programming Cycle.
                Academy MIT reviews status of achieving USAFA Strategic Goals and
May             considers new programs or program changes based on the results (even-
                numbered years)
                MIT updates Strategic Plan within one year of new Superintendent’s arrival
 10                                                         USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011


May                HQ USAFA/A8A issues POM guidance / data call
August             Academy MIT reviews initial set of issues and programs
September          HAF issues guidance / data call letter
                   Academy MIT reviews program reduction proposals
October            Informal Program Element Manager (PEM) parades (reviews)
                   Academy MIT reviews POM and MILCON submissions
November           Academy SSG approves POM and MILCON submissions
December           Combatant Commanders Integrated Priority Lists (IPLs) due
                   MAJCOM POM submittals due
January            HAF Program Element Manager (PEM) parades (reviews)
February           Programmer’s Conference (O-6 level)
February/March Review and MAJCOM presentations
March              MILCON working group
April-June         AF Group, AF Board, AF Council deliberations
July               AF approves their POM
August             AF sends POM to OSD

4. Documentation.
   4.1. Program. The Air Force and Air Force Academy disseminate the Program through
   program documents. The principal and supplementary program documents list particular
   resource commodities of the overall programs and their OPRs. HQ USAFA/A8A publishes
   the principal program documents after the President’s Budget submission. They may also
   publish program documents after a significant amended budget submission or any time HQ
   USAFA directs an additional update. These program documents are categorized by Program
   Element (where appropriate), consistent with the USAF and USAFA Force and Financial
   Plans, and are implemented only with specific and separate authority from HQ USAFA/CC.
   4.2. Program Change Requests (PCRs). PCRs are used to request an operational or fiscal
   change outside the normal PPBE cycle that is mission critical to accomplish in the execution
   or budget years. Changes to the Academy Program after execution and budget years will be
   part of Program Agency initiatives or disconnects during the next POM programming phase.
   General guidelines for Academy PCRs are available from HQ USAFA/A8A.
   4.3. USAF and USAFA Program Document Processing and Distribution.
         4.3.1. Program Elements (PEs) are primary data elements in the FYDP. They are
         organized into 11 Major Force Programs (MFP), 6 combat force oriented programs, and 5
         support programs.
USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011                                                            11


     4.3.2. PPBE documents and supporting databases are not disclosed outside DoD or other
     governmental agencies not directly involved in the defense planning and resource
     allocation process (e.g., OMB). The Air Force, by request, distributes SECAF and CSAF
     approved PPBE documents and decisions to OSD and headquarters elements of the
     Departments of the Army and the Navy. Sub-elements of those departments that require
     information on Air Force programs should request it from their respective departmental
     headquarters. The Air Force distributes program documents internally on a strict "need-
     to-know" basis (see DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program Regulation, January
     1997 and AFPD 16-14, Information Protection, 28 September 2010). At the Academy,
     HQ USAFA/FM controls the distribution of the principal program documents; the OPRs
     control supplementary documents.




                                         MICHAEL L. THERIANOS, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                         Director, Strategic Plans and Programs,
                                         Requirements, Assessments and Analyses
 12                                                   USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air Force Programs, 15 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 16-5, Planning, Programming, and Budgeting System (PPBS), 29 July 1994
AFPD 16-14, Information Protection, 28 September 2010
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program Regulation, January 1997
DoDI 5000.2, Operation of the Defense Acquisition System, 12 May 2003
DoDI 7045.7, Implementation of the Planning, Programming and Budgeting System, 23 May
1984, with Change 1, 9 April 1987
MID 910, Budget and Performance Integration Initiative, 1 January 2001
MID 913, Implementation of a 2-Year Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution
Process, 22 May 2003
Administrative Control of Appropriations and Anti-Deficiency Act Violations, March 2001
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
10 ABW—10th Air Base Wing
ABIDES—Automated Budget Interactive Data Environment System
AD—Athletics Director
AF—Air Force
AFACS—Air Force Academy Corporate Structure
AFB—Air Force Board
AFC—Air Force Council
AFCS—Air Force Corporate Structure
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
BES—Budget Estimate Submission
USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011                                        13


CDO—Chief Diversity Officer
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
CV—Vice Commander
CW—Commandant of Cadets
DF—Dean of the Faculty
DoD—Department of Defense
F&FP—Force and Financial Plan
FYDP—Future Years Defense Program
FY—Fiscal Year
HAF—Headquarters Air Force
IEP—Institutional Effectiveness Program
ITFWG—Information Technology Financial Working Group
MAJCOM—Major Command
MILCON—Military Construction
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PBD—Program Budget Decision
PCR—Program Change Request
PEM—Program Element Monitor
PE—Program Element
PL—Preparatory School
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPBE—Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution System
PPBS—Planning, Programming and Budgeting System
RAPIDS—Resource Allocation Programming Information Decision System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RR—Director of Admissions
SECAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SECDEF—Secretary of Defense
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
 14                                                      USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011


Terms
Air Force Academy Corporate Structure (AFACS)—Embodies the corporate review process
for HQ USAFA. It allows time critical or time limited functional reviews at the appropriate
levels. The AFACS increases overall management effectiveness by applying cross-functional
judgment, experience, and analysis to program adjustments in a resource-limited environment.
The corporate structure as it pertains to this document is the Air Force Academy Council and the
Mission and Mission Support Panels.
Air Force Corporate Structure (AFCS)—Embodies the corporate review process for
HQ USAF. It does not replace the functional staff but, rather, enhances it by allowing time
critical or time limited functional reviews at the appropriate levels. The deliberative components
of the Corporate Structure are the Air Force Council (AFC), the Air Force Board (AFB), the Air
Force Group (AFG), and the thirteen Mission and Mission Support Panels. This structure
increases management effectiveness and improves cross-functional decision-making by
providing a forum in which senior Air Force leadership can apply their collective judgment,
experience, and analysis to major programs, objectives, and issues. This process balances
programs among mission areas, between force structure and support, and between readiness,
modernization, and transformation. Additionally, this approach ensures the Air Force program is
capabilities based and supports the Joint warfighter. Only military or Department of Defense
civilian personnel assigned to the Air Staff or Office of the Secretary of the Air Force may serve
as members of the corporate structure.
AFC (Air Force Council)—Advises and makes recommendations to the Chief of Staff and
Secretary on major matters, including the responsiveness of Air Force plans and programs to
national, Office of the Secretary of Defense, Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Air Force objectives. The
Vice Chief of Staff chairs the AFC. Membership is at the Deputy Chief of Staff (three-star)
level, corresponding Secretariat level, and selected Directorate (two-star) level (paragraph 3.2.).
Air Force Academy Council (AFAC)—The AFAC is the senior forum for cross-functional
consideration of the most critical Air Force issues. It is chaired by the USAFA/CC and
membership consists of HQ USAFA and Mission Partner principals.
AFB (Air Force Board)—Advises and provides recommendations to the Air Force Council
(AFC) on major programming and other staffing issues. In addition, the AFB conducts corporate
reviews of the resource allocation process, enhances the corporate decision process, and works to
shape and refine proposals prior to presentation to the AFC. The AFB has decision authority for
issues submitted by the Air Force Group (AFG). The Director of Programs chairs the AFB,
except for purposes of budget formulation and execution to include the Program Budget Review
(PBR), Budget Review Cycle, and President’s Budget (PB), when the Deputy Assistant
Secretary (Budget) (SAF/FMB) chairs it. Membership is at the General officer/Senior Executive
Service level (paragraph 3.3.) but advisory members include the panel chairs, CONOPS
Champions, and those with special expertise.
AFG (Air Force Group)—Advises and provides recommendations to the Air Force Board
(AFB) on major programming and other staffing issues. Conducts corporate reviews of the
resource allocation process, enhances the corporate decision process, and works to shape and
refine proposals prior to presentation to the AFB and the Air Force Council (AFC). The Deputy
Director of Programs chairs the AFG. Membership is at the Colonel/civilian equivalent level
(paragraph 3.4.), but advisory members include the panel chairs, CONOPS champions, and those
USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                     15


with special expertise. The AFG is the first level in the corporate structure that integrates the Air
Force mission, mission support areas, and capabilities into a balanced Air Force program.
Budget Year(s)—The year(s) following the current fiscal year, and for which the Budget
Estimate Submission (BES) is prepared. For example, if the current fiscal year were FY 2005,
the budget year(s) would be FY 2006-07.
Disconnect—An approved program, which is unexecutable because of resource shortfalls.
Specific Air Force or Office of the Secretary of Defense Program Budget Decisions (PBDs) that
change the program content or pace in the Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution
cycle are not candidates for disconnects in the following year’s cycle.
Execution Year—The current fiscal year.
Fiscal Year (FY)—The 12-month period which begins 1 October of one year and ends 30
September of the next year.
Future Years Defense Program (FYDP)—The official OSD document and database that
summarizes Secretary of Defense approved plans and programs for the Department of Defense.
Initiative—A proposal for resources to initiate a new program (new start).
Mission Partner (MP)—At the Academy, a unit charged with fulfilling a particular mission
(Director of Athletics [AD], Commandant of Cadets [CW], Dean of the Faculty [DF],
Preparatory School [PL], and 10th Air Base Wing [10ABW]).
Offsets—Resources that are offered to "pay" for a Program Change Request action, disconnect,
or initiative.
Out Years—The years of the Air Force Program not included in the execution or budget years.
Program Change Request (PCR)—Document used to request an out-of-cycle change to the
FYDP program structure (during the execution and budget years) which can be initiated by
Headquarters USAF, the MAJCOMs, or other Mission Partners. Changes to the Air Force
Program that begin beyond the execution and budget years should be part of Program Agency
initiatives or disconnects during the next programming phase.
Prior Year (PY)—The fiscal year immediately preceding the current year (last completed fiscal
year). Also referred to as Past Year.
USAF Force and Financial Plan (F&FP)—The database that describes the Future Years
Defense Plan. The Air Force portion of the DoD FYDP, consisting of a series of classified
volumes, which shows (by program element code), a projection of the forces, manpower, and
dollar resources approved for the Air Force. Interaction with the F&FP is accomplished using
the Automated Budget Interactive Data Environment System (ABIDES) program. Changes to
the F&FP using ABIDES, are accomplished through the Resource Allocation Programming
Information Decision System (RAPIDS).
 16                                                     USAFAI16-501 10 NOVEMBER 2011


                                         Attachment 2
  PLANNING, PROGRAMMING, BUDGETING, AND EXECUTION (PPBE) SYSTEM

A2.1. The PPBE system is the DoD resource management process with four interrelated phases
consistent with national security objectives, policies, and strategies. Its purpose is to identify
capability requirements (Planning), and match them with resource requirements (Programming),
translate them into budget proposals (Budgeting), and evaluate spending (Execution) to
determine how well the desired capabilities will be achieved. The Secretary of Defense
(SECDEF) provides centralized policy direction throughout the four phases, while delegating
program development, execution authority, and responsibility to Services and DoD agencies.
   A2.1.1. Planning. The first phase, planning, begins with broad strategies and plans that
   encompass long-range guidance out to 8-years and mid-term objectives and planning out to
   5-years. Long-range guidance defines major Academy modernization and investment
   requirements. Our Strategic Plan (SP) and Institutional Effectiveness Program (IEP) guide
   long and mid-term planning. The Strategic Plan is reviewed annually and updated every
   other year and the IEP is executed annually and updated as required.
   A2.1.2. Programming. The programming phase translates guidance into action, balances
   allocation of resources to plans (requirements), organizes requirements into packages
   (programs), and prioritizes programs based on capabilities/risks. The result is the Academy’s
   POM submission to HAF.
   A2.1.3. Budgeting. The third phase of our PPBE process, budgeting, involves formulating
   and controlling near-term resource requirements, allocation, and use based on the results of
   the planning and programming efforts.
A2.1.4. Execution. The final phase of our PPBE process is the execution of our program-
budget. Execution is the process of translating the performance of the planning, programming,
and budgeting phases into institutional capabilities.
A2.2. For additional details about PPBE, see AFI 16-501, Control and Documentation of Air
Force Programs, 15 August 2006.
