BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                    INSTRUCTION 36-705
EUROPE (USAFE)
                                                                          29 OCTOBER 2012

                                                                                   Personnel

                                                  BENEFITS AND ALLOWANCES FOR US
                                                              EMPLOYEES IN USAFE



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFE/A1KKC                                             Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1K
                                                                     (Ms. Monique F. Botting)
Supersedes:   USAFEI36-705, 25 July 2011                                           Pages: 10


This instruction implements AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Relations Management. It
specifies terms and conditions for determination of eligibility for overseas allowances and
benefits, as well as travel and transportation entitlements and benefits for US employees on
appropriated-fund positions within USAFE. This publication does not apply to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) Units or the Air National Guard (ANG). This instruction may not be
supplemented at any level. Refer recommended changes and questions to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363 (AFMAN), Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) at Air Force Portal:
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This instruction
updates organization names. It revises the provisions on the payment of Living Quarters
Allowance (LQA) for Personally Owned Quarters (POQ), the granting of LQA to locally hired
employees including former contractor employees and prescribes the utilization of the Utility
Tax Avoidance Program (UTAP). It modifies the conditions of premature release of employees
from their service agreements and clarifies the earning rates of Home Leave (HL).
 2                                                           USAFEI36-705 29 OCTOBER 2012


1. General. This instruction specifies the requirements and conditions for U.S. civilian
employees' eligibility for overseas allowances and transportation benefits. It applies to U.S.
civilian employees serviced by USAFE Civilian Personnel Staffs (CPS) at foreign overseas duty
locations. Its provisions are based on confirmed interpretations of the precedent regulations as
cited below, as well as on past practice. It does not limit the Civilian Personnel Officers' (CPO)
primary authority and responsibility for rendering decisions on overseas benefits and allowances.
2. Authority and Decision Procedures
     2.1. Authority. AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities, and
     AFI 36-102, Basic Authority and Responsibility for Civilian Personnel Management and
     Administration, delegate the authority to grant allowances or travel and transportation
     benefits to the official with appointing authority (usually the Wing or Installation
     Commander). The CPO, when designated in writing to act for the Commander, renders final
     decisions on matters covered by this instruction.
     2.2. Procedures.     Employees will address requests for overseas allowances and
     transportation benefits to the responsible CPS for determination. If a request is denied, the
     review process within the Air Force is complete. The CPO will inform the employee
     accordingly and provide advice on the proper appeal procedures (see para.5).
3. Overseas Allowances
     3.1. General Eligibility Requirements (Department of State Standardized Regulations
     (DSSR) 031.11., 031.12 a.). To be eligible for overseas allowances the actual place of
     residence of employees recruited outside the United States shall be fairly attributable to their
     employment by the U.S. Government, meaning that the employment is the primary reason for
     their residing overseas. In accordance with (IAW) Office of Personnel Management (OPM)
     guidance, same-sex domestic partners and their children are eligible for overseas allowances
     and differentials.
     3.2. Living Quarters Allowance (DSSR 130, 131). LQA is a quarters allowance granted to
     an employee for the annual cost of suitable, adequate living quarters for the employee and
     his/her family. It is designed to cover substantially all of the average employee's costs for
     rent, utilities, and other mandatory costs for occupying living quarters.
        3.2.1. Purpose. DoDI 1400.25 - V1250.4.c. states that overseas allowances are
        "intended to be recruitment incentives for U.S. citizen civilian employees living in the
        United States to accept Federal employment in a foreign area. If a person is already
        living in the foreign area, that inducement is normally unnecessary". In addition,
        DoDI 1400.25 - V1250 specifies that overseas allowances are discretionary, not
        entitlements. The authorization is contingent on both personal and position eligibility.
        OPM adjudication repeatedly confirmed that the statutory and regulatory languages are
        permissive and give agency heads considerable discretion whether to grant LQA to
        employees. Likewise, the United States Court of Federal Claims has ruled that an
        employee is not owed the allowance simply because he or she meets the eligibility
        requirements.
        3.2.2. Position Eligibility. The grade of a position is not the sole factor in determining if
        a position qualifies for LQA. Rather, the scope of recruitment, the authorization of
        attendant PCS entitlements, and whether LQA is considered a necessary incentive for the
USAFEI36-705 29 OCTOBER 2012                                                                   3


     filling of the position are decisive factors in the determination. The CPO has the
     authority to make final determinations on a position's eligibility for LQA.
     3.2.3. Personal Eligibility of Locally Hired Employees. IAW the Glossary to DoDI
     1400.25 - V1250, "locally–hired. Refers to the country in which the foreign post is
     located." Therefore, LQA will normally not be approved for an individual currently
     residing in the country where the position being filled is located. Likewise, individuals
     who do not permanently and physically reside in the U.S. at the time of application for
     and acceptance of the overseas position do not meet U.S. hire prerequisites. The CPO
     will determine whether LQA is necessary as a recruitment incentive and then determine
     whether the applicant is eligible to receive LQA. If LQA is unnecessary for recruitment
     purposes, it will be denied and there will be no further review or determination. Should it
     be determined that LQA is necessary, the applicant's eligibility will be determined IAW
     the DSSR and DoDI 1400.25 - V1250. This determination has precedence, i.e. if an
     employee is found to be personally ineligible all other considerations are irrelevant. For
     positions announced locally or if PCS costs are not authorized LQA must not be
     authorized.
        3.2.3.1. IAW DoDI 1400.25 - V1250, Encl.2, 2.a., former military or civilian
        members within the first year of separation from military or civilian service overseas
        must meet the criteria of DSSR 031.12 a. and either 031.12 b. or 031.12 c. to be
        eligible for LQA. To meet the prerequisite of "substantially continuous employment"
        a prospective employee must not have used part or all of his/her return transportation
        entitlement, or be beyond 1 year after the date of separation. The one-year time limit
        is definitive and may not be modified by any possible extension provisions for using
        return transportation entitlements as contained in the pertinent travel regulations.
        Additionally, the separation from military or civilian service must take place
        overseas; separation in the United States and subsequent return to the overseas at
        personal expense interrupts the overseas service and rules out applicability of DoDI
        1400.25 - V1250, Encl.2, 2.a. The 1-year window also applies for non-appropriated-
        fund employees transferring to an appropriated-fund position that qualifies for the
        payment of LQA.
            3.2.3.1.1. Pursuant OPM adjudication the "substantially continuous employment"
            under DSSR 031.12 b is restricted to one employer only who recruited the
            employee in the United States and expressly provided for the return
            transportation. Multiple prior employment relations or military service followed
            by employment as a contractor e.g. voids LQA eligibility.
            3.2.3.1.2. IAW DSSR 031.12 c. and DoDI 1400.25 - V1250, Encl.2, 2.g., LQA
            may be granted to an employee recruited outside the United States if the
            assignment entails a move "within or between countries" and management
            requires the employee to move to another area as a "condition of employment"
            which " … if not fulfilled, results in failure to gain or retain employment" (Encl.2,
            2.g.). Likewise, only an employee whose move was requested by management
            may qualify for LQA under DSSR 031.12 c. The move must be positively
            identified as a management-generated action pursuant Encl.2, 2.g. (1) – (3).
4                                                      USAFEI36-705 29 OCTOBER 2012


       3.2.3.2. DoDI 1400.25 - V1250, Encl.2, 2.c. lists circumstances permitting the
       requirements of DSSR 031.12 b. to be waived for humanitarian reasons. When an
       employee meets one of the conditions identified in this paragraph neither the position-
       based nor the personal eligibility criteria are applicable and the CPO may grant
       payment of LQA for up to one year under humanitarian considerations. Employees
       have to provide adequate documentation certifying the loss of family member status
       or that related legal action was initiated. CPSs will ensure that the former sponsor's
       LQA payment is reduced commensurately before granting the allowance. Employees
       on family member appointments who are subject to termination of employment 60
       calendar days after the loss of family member status or due to the sponsor's departure
       are not eligible for LQA under these provisions.
    3.2.4. Part-Time Employment (DSSR 031.5). Payment of LQA is not authorized for
    part-time employees. Payment of LQA will be suspended for employees transferring
    from full-time to part-time status. Upon return to full-time status, without a break in
    service, the LQA payment will be resumed since the employee maintains "substantially
    continuous employment."
    3.2.5. Position Changes. For locally hired employees receiving LQA as a result of a
    waiver who move to other positions within the command the continuation of payment is
    contingent upon the fulfillment of the requirements of the DSSR and DoDI 1400.25 -
    V1250.
    3.2.6. Quarters Groups. IAW DSSR 134.14 b., employees on positions that are
    converted to a different personnel classification system and who are therefore assigned a
    lower LQA quarters group may remain in the previously held quarters group as long as
    they stay in the same position or must change positions for reasons beyond their control.
    Per DSSR 135.5 c., employees in quarters group 4 may be placed in quarters group 3 if
    they have more than 15 years of US Government Federal civilian service.
    3.2.7. Personally Owned Quarters. In compliance with DSSR 136 and DoDI 1400.25 -
    V1250, Encl. 2, 2.l., employees who purchase a home while serving in the overseas area
    may receive an annual rental portion of LQA equal to 10 percent of the purchase price or
    the appraised value of the POQ at the time of the purchase at the rate of exchange valid at
    the time of the purchase, for a maximum of 10 years. After 10 years, the Government has
    essentially reimbursed the employee for the full cost of the POQ and no further rental
    portion is appropriate. An employee who at his own choice sells the POQ before
    expiration of the ten-year period and moves into rental quarters receives through the sale
    more or less the amount of money that the Government would have paid over ten years to
    provide him an adequate residence. Therefore, employees who sold their POQ and
    moved into rental quarters or into other POQ will not be paid LQA beyond ten years.
    3.2.8. Reconciliation. LQA payments will be reconciled against the actual quarters
    expenses after completion of the first year in quarters, upon occupancy of new quarters
    after the first year, upon any change of the determining factors (such as number of family
    members), or when specifically requested by the agency or employee. For employees
    married to military members, the CPSs will ensure that the full payment amounts of the
    military quarters allowances are considered in the revised LQA amount determination.
USAFEI36-705 29 OCTOBER 2012                                                                     5


      3.2.9. Utility Tax Avoidance Program. Per DoDI 1400.25 - V1250, Encl. 2.k.,
      employees have to utilize the UTAP to receive the utilities portion of LQA at installations
      where the subsistence providers have contracts with the local tax relief office. Attendant
      fees are reimbursable through the miscellaneous expense allowance only.
   3.3. Temporary Quarters Subsistence Allowance (TQSA) (DSSR 120). The purpose of
   TQSA is to substantially reimburse an employee for average costs for the occupation of
   transient-type quarters immediately after the first arrival at or prior to the final departure
   from the permanent duty station. IAW DSSR 122.1, these quarters shall be at the post of
   assignment; hence, TQSA shall not be authorized if the employee chooses to occupy quarters
   outside the local area for personal reasons or leisure purposes. IAW DoDI 1400.25 - V1250,
   4.e., TQSA is not intended to provide ostentatious housing or extravagant meals. The CPS
   will determine whether the quarters meet the above requirements and if claimed subsistence
   expenses are reasonable based on local circumstances.
   3.4. Post Allowance (PA) (DSSR 220). PA is the cost-of-living allowance authorized for
   full-time employees officially stationed at a post in a foreign area. Part-time employees are
   not eligible for PA. Like other overseas allowances, its receipt shall be fairly attributable to
   the employee's employment by the U.S. Government. Therefore, it may also be granted to
   locally-hired employees even though they do not qualify for other overseas allowances.
   3.5. Separate Maintenance Allowance (SMA) (DSSR 260). If an employee maintains
   eligible family members at a place other than the foreign post of assignment, SMA may be
   granted to assist the employee in defraying the costs for keeping an additional household.
   Prospective employees hired from the continental United States (CONUS) should be advised,
   well in advance of an actual move to the new Permanent Duty Station (PDS), of the options
   for requesting SMA for special personal needs or hardships (Voluntary SMA). This is to
   ensure that such requests are submitted through the owning CPS to the gaining CPS for
   review and determination before the employee departs for USAFE. IAW the 06 November
   1997 AFPOA/DPM guidance memorandum, voluntary SMA may be granted for an
   employee's initial tour only. Employees who acquire dependents after entry on duty at the
   overseas PDS are not eligible for voluntary SMA since these individuals were not entitled to
   official transportation to the overseas duty location at the employee's date of assignment.
   3.6. Post Differential (DSSR 500). The purpose of Post Differential is to provide additional
   compensation to an employee for service at a duty station where the living and environmental
   conditions are significantly harder than in the CONUS. IAW DSSR 031.3, only employees
   who are eligible for LQA may receive Post Differential.
4. Travel, Transportation, and Leave
   4.1. Overseas Service Obligations (AFMAN 36-204 / JTR, Ch.5). IAW AFMAN 36-204,
   Para. 3.1.3., employees will sign Overseas Employment Agreements that specify tours of
   duty and overseas rotation requirements. In addition, the JTR requires that employees sign a
   DD Form 1617, Service Agreement, which defines the periods of service they have to
   complete to become eligible for travel benefits such as permanent duty travel, return travel,
   and Renewal Agreement Travel (RAT).
      4.1.1. Early Release from Service Obligations. Para.C.5574 of the JTR specifies
      circumstances that warrant an early release from service and overseas employment
6                                                          USAFEI36-705 29 OCTOBER 2012


       agreements. These provisions do not apply to employees who apply and are selected for
       Air Force positions after having completed 12 months of service at the outside the
       continental United States (OCONUS) duty station. IAW guidance by Air Staff, such
       employees are to be released promptly. However, the losing organization shall not
       authorize payment of PCS costs under these circumstances. The gaining activity or the
       career program is responsible for covering these expenses. The completion of the tour of
       duty specified in the DD 1617 is required only to become eligible for return
       transportation to the home of record or, if applicable, to exercise return rights. Early
       releases shall not be initiated by Management to avoid disciplinary measures.
       4.1.2. Employees who completed their overseas service obligation or are within 2
       months of the end of their tour will – upon request – be paid PCS expenses for their
       imminent move to the CONUS, or to another OCONUS location. This includes moves in
       conjunction with the exercise of return rights and reassignment/promotion to another duty
       location. The installation will also pay PCS expenses associated with moves under the
       Priority Placement Program, Reduction-in-Force placement, Base Realignment/Closure,
       and other situations as specified in the JTR.
       4.1.3. Employees who wish to serve a consecutive overseas tour and use the RAT
       entitlement will sign a DD Form 1617/Renewal Agreement. IAW JTR, C.5586 C.,
       employees who fail to complete 12 months of service after return from RAT are to be
       held liable for the associated expenses.
       4.1.4. IAW AFMAN 36-204, Para.3.1. et seq., the CPS shall properly advise employees
       of their service requirements and transportation entitlements and have them acknowledge
       these conditions in writing.
       4.1.5. Release from Service Agreement upon Retirement. The Comptroller General has
       ruled that employees who retire voluntarily upon satisfying the age and service
       requirements for optional retirement may be released from their period of service
       requirement since such circumstances are considered beyond the control of employee
       thus justifying the payment of associated PCS costs.
    4.2. Dependent Student Travel / Educational Travel (JTR C5120, DSSR 280). This travel
    benefit may only be authorized for children who are included on the employees' orders as
    dependents. Individuals not included on their parents' orders because they have reached 21
    years of age at the time the sponsor PCSs to the overseas area and thus do not meet the
    definition of dependent are not eligible even though such travel may be exercised beyond the
    twenty-first birthday.
    4.3. Environmental and Morale Leave (EML) (JTR / EUCOM Directive 35-2). EML is a
    leave and travel benefit that may be granted to employees and dependents stationed at
    overseas duty locations where environmental conditions warrant additional travel to and
    leave at more desirable locations at periodic intervals. It may not be used to undergo elective
    medical treatment in the CONUS or for the early return of dependents. EML travel within 6
    months after arrival or 6 months before final departure from the duty location is prohibited
    unless HQ USAFE/A1KKC grants a waiver for cogent humanitarian / personal reasons.
    Requests will include a substantiated justification, projected travel dates, information on
    previous EML travel, and the local commanders' endorsement. Waivers requested solely for
USAFEI36-705 29 OCTOBER 2012                                                                   7


  convenience or for using the maximum number of EML trips will not be considered; EML is
  a benefit, not an entitlement.
  4.4. Home Leave (HL) (5 CFR §630.601 / AFI 36-815 / AFI 36-202). HL is leave earned by
  employees serving abroad who qualify for the accumulation of a maximum of 45 days of
  annual leave. It is earned at rates of 5, 10, or 15 days based on the criteria in 5 CFR §
  630.604. Employees with mobility agreements concluded under AFI 36-202 earn 15 days of
  HL annually. HL is to be used only in the CONUS or non-foreign OCONUS areas. Before
  becoming eligible to use it, employees must complete a substantial period of service, i.e. 24
  months abroad. This is a one-time requirement and employees on subsequent overseas tours
  may use HL immediately after reporting to the overseas duty station, in accordance with the
  below provisions.
     4.4.1. Banked Home Leave. IAW AFI 36-815, Ch.12.2., the use of HL that was not
     granted during a previous period of service abroad requires the completion of a further
     substantial period of service abroad. This period may not be less than the tour of duty
     prescribed for the employee's post of assignment unless this requirement is waived on a
     case-by-case basis IAW the following.
     4.4.2. Waivers for Banked Home Leave. Employees wishing to use banked HL
     prematurely will submit a written request with full rationale to the servicing CPS.
     Installation Commanders have the authority to approve premature use of banked HL for
     humanitarian or compassionate reasons. All other requests to use banked HL will be
     submitted through the CPS to HQ USAFE/A1KKC for determination on a case-by-case
     basis.
  4.5. Leave-free Travel Time (5 U.S.C. §6303 (d)). Employees who are eligible to
  accumulate 45 days of annual leave may, upon request, travel in a duty status from their
  overseas duty station to go on leave at their home of record or another authorized destination
  in the United States or its territories and possessions and vice versa. Requests for Leave-free
  Travel Time are not limited to RAT. However, it may be granted only once during a
  prescribed tour of duty, i.e. once during an initial tour and again during a consecutive tour.
  4.6. Official Passport Requirement (DoD Foreign Clearance Guide / DoD 1000.21-R,
  C1.3.6.1. / USAFEI 36-3101). Whenever performing official travel, such as TDY or PCS
  travel, or when reentering the country of assignment after completing personal travel, self-
  sponsored civilian employees will use the official, no-fee (red) passport to clearly designate
  their status as members of a U.S. Government agency. This also applies to locally-hired
  employees who are normally not entitled to an official or no-fee passport but are required to
  perform official travel outside the country of assignment. For all other, non-duty-related
  travel, the blue tourist passport should be used. If, however, the country of assignment
  requires the presentation of the passport containing the residency permit, employees will
  adhere to that condition. The CPSs will advise current and prospective self-sponsored
  employees in such a way that the application process can be initiated in due time before any
  anticipated official travel. To obtain more specific information, affected employees will
  contact the local passport services agency or refer to www.travel.state.gov.
 8                                                          USAFEI36-705 29 OCTOBER 2012


5. Appeal Procedures
     5.1. General. Claims or requests for waivers regarding overseas allowances or transportation
     entitlements and benefits that are found to be unjustified and therefore denied by the CPO are
     considered closed at the local level. Employees may seek redress by submitting such
     requests to the authorities listed below:
        5.1.1. Decisions on LQA, TQSA, Post Allowance, Separate Maintenance Allowance, or
        Home Leave will be adjudicated by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) IAW 31
        U.S.C. §3702 and 5 CFR §178.101 et seq. Claims are to be addressed to:




        5.1.2. Claims involving Federal employees travel, transportation, and relocation
        allowances such as FTA, or TQSE will be adjudicated by the Civilian Board of Contract
        Appeals under the rules of procedure published at http://www.cbca.gs.gov. Employees
        will mail appeals packages to:




     5.2. CPOs are responsible for ensuring that employees who wish to appeal agency decisions
     are properly advised on the correct procedures. Likewise, local commanders are to be
     informed on these procedures to avoid that appeals are routed incorrectly and inappropriate
     parties are involved.
6. Grandfathering. Provisions in this instruction that are more restrictive than previous ones
will apply only to employees for whom initial determinations are made after the date of
publication.




                                              CHRISTOPHER C. SHARPE, Colonel, USAF
                                              Director, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
USAFEI36-705 29 OCTOBER 2012                                                               9


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
5 U.S.C. §6303, 6 September 1966
31 U.S.C. §3702, 2 December 2002
5 CFR §178.101, 31 December 1997
5 CFR §337.202, 15 June 2004
5 CFR §351.203, 3 January 1986
5 CFR §630.601 et seq., 29 December 1995
OPM Guidance Memorandum, 6 June 2010, "Implementation of the President's Memorandum
Regarding Extension of Benefits to Same-Sex Domestic Partners of Federal Employees"
Department of State Standardized Regulations (DSSR), 30 August 2009
DoD Foreign Clearance Guide (FCG), https://www.fcg.pentagon.mil/fcg.cfm, 20 April 2012
DoDI 1400.25 - Volume 1250, 23 February 2012
DoDD 1000.21-R, Passport and Passport Agent Services Regulation, 1 April 1997
DoD Joint Ravel Regulations, Vol.2 (JTR), current edition
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement (NATO SOFA), 19 June 1951
EUCOM Directive 35-2, Environmental and Morale Leave, 3 August 2003
AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities, 7 March 1995
AFI 36-102, Basic Authority and Responsibility for Civilian Personnel Management and
Administration, 18 February 1994
AFI 36-202, Civilian Mobility, 18 March 1994
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 5 September 2002
AFMAN 36-204, Overseas Employment, 11 April 2007
USAFEI 36-3101, Passports and Visas, 1 October 2009
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
DD Form 1617, Department of Defense (DOD) Transportation Agreement, Transfer of Civilian
Employees Outside CONUS (OCONUS).
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CONUS—Continental United States
 10                                                 USAFEI36-705 29 OCTOBER 2012


CPO—Civilian Personnel Officer
CPS—Civilian Personnel Staff
DSSR—Department of State Standardized Regulations
EML—Environmental and Morale Leave
FTA—Foreign Transfer Allowance
HL—Home Leave
IAW—In Accordance with
JTR—Joint Travel Regulations
LQA—Living Quarters Allowance
OCONUS—Outside the Continental United States
OPM—Office of Personnel Management
PA—Post Allowance
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PD—Post Differential
PDS—Permanent Duty Station
POQ—Personally Owned Quarters
RAT—Renewal Agreement Travel
SMA—Separate Maintenance Allowance
TDY—Temporary Duty
TQSA—Temporary Quarters Subsistence Allowance
TQSE—Temporary Quarters Subsistence Expense
UTAP—Utility Tax Avoidance Program
