BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3518

                                                                          20 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                             INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETIC
                                                                            PROGRAMS

                                                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION
                                                                    IS MANDATORY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/ADPL                                                       Certified by: USAFA/ADP
                                                                           (Col William Walker)
Supersedes:    USAFAI 36-3518,                                                         Pages: 12
               26 February 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-3501, Air Force Academy Operations. This
publication establishes policy and procedures for intercollegiate athletic programs and applies to
all United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) personnel who participate or support
intercollegiate athletic programs. This publication does not apply to the United States Air Force
(USAF) Reserve, Air National Guard, and Civil Air Patrol members. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using an Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates the Certifying Authority’s information (Header), updates office symbols
and titles throughout the publication, updates team practice days (Paragraph 3.2.), updates the
Athletic Team Attendance and Formations information (Table 2.), updates Military Physical
Training requirements (Paragraph 3.5.), updates sign-in instructions (Paragraph 3.6.), updates
requirements and information on Scheduled Wing-wide Military Training Weekends (Paragraphs
3.8.1. – 3.8.3.), updates air transportation information (Paragraph 5.1.1.), updates civilian
 2                                                      USAFAI36-3518 20 NOVEMBER 2012


clothing requirements (Paragraph 5.1.3.), updates team workout clothing requirements
(Paragraph 5.2.), updates Team Dining Pass information (Paragraph 6.2.), updates team table
requirements (Paragraph 7.3.), updates practice and meals information (Paragraph 7.6.), updates
Team Captain selection process (Paragraph 8.1.), updates Table Commandant responsibilities
(Paragraph 8.3.2.), updates Training Event de-confliction process (Paragraph 9.1.), and updates
Primary Season definition (Attachment 1).
1. General.
     1.1. Responsibility. The Directorate of Athletics (USAFA/AD) at the USAFA will, in
     conjunction with the academic and military training programs, provide the necessary
     instruction and experience to all cadets so they will graduate with the knowledge, skills, and
     responsibility essential to become leaders and officers of character in the USAF.
     1.2. Philosophy. The Academy athletic programs are an integral part of the overall
     Academy character development and training curriculum. Academy intercollegiate athletic
     programs emphasize fair and honest competition, and develop the leadership characteristics
     of self-confidence, determination, physical courage, and a highly competitive attitude related
     to activities both on and off the playing fields. Furthermore, the Academy intercollegiate
     program is designed to supplement the leadership opportunities available to all cadets, while
     maintaining a proper perspective within the institutional framework to ensure academic
     success, which culminates in a commission as a second lieutenant in the USAF.
2. Athletic Team Rosters.
     2.1. National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Requirement. Athletic teams consist
     of cadets who have completed the necessary eligibility paperwork and are listed on an
     official team roster by the respective coach. Each team is listed under a particular season
     (see Table 1.). Eligibility paperwork includes the NCAA Student-Athlete Statement, NCAA
     Drug Testing Consent Form and the Mountain West Conference Historical Report.

Table 1. Team Seasons.
FALL                              WINTER                           SPRING

Football                          Indoor Track*                    Baseball
Cheerleaders*                     Basketball*                      Outdoor Track*
Soccer*                           Hockey                           Lacrosse
Waterpolo                         Rifle*                           Tennis*
Volleyball                        Fencing*                         Golf**
Cross Country*                    Wrestling                        Boxing
Golf**                            Swimming*
                                  Diving*
                                  Gymnastics*
                                  Cheerleaders*
*Men’s and Women’s sports
**Split competitive season
Note: USAFA/AD will provide the Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW) with the start
and stop dates of each team’s primary season at the beginning of each academic year.
USAFAI36-3518 20 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                  3


   2.2. Mandatory Formation. Cadets on team rosters will adhere to attendance at formations in
   accordance with the official Air Force Academy (USAFA) Schedule of Calls and appropriate
   excusals approved by the Academy Board and/or Scheduling Committee. Unless a higher
   priority activity is required, cadets on intercollegiate teams must attend scheduled practices
   and contests. Activity priorities may be referenced in USAFAI 36-2014, Allocation of Cadet
   Time (will renumber to USAFAI 36-3536).
   2.3. Intramural Participation. While on intercollegiate athletic team rosters, cadets will not
   participate in intramurals unless specifically cleared by the coach. If a cadet is dropped from
   a team, the coach will inform the Directorate of Athletics’ Scheduling and Grading Branch,
   Intercollegiate Compliance Branch, Intramural Branch, and the Air Officer Commanding
   (AOC) and/or Academy Military Trainer (AMT). The cadet must notify his or her AOC and
   the squadron chain of command (to include the squadron chief of athletics [SCOA] for
   intramural accountability) within two academic days of being dropped from a team. A
   dropped cadet is required to participate in squadron intramurals and will sit at squadron
   tables for the noon meal. The Directorate of Athletics’ Intercollegiate Liaison Branch
   (USAFA/ADPL) will distribute team rosters to coaches on a monthly basis to ensure
   accuracy.
   2.4. Manager Requirements. Cadet intercollegiate team managers will be considered
   members of their athletic teams and their names will appear on the official roster of the team.
   Managers on athletic, conduct, aptitude, or honor probation will be removed from the team
   roster. Managers on academic probation will be referred to the appropriate team eligibility
   committee. If a cadet is converted from a player to a team manager, the coach will notify
   Scheduling and Grading Branch, Intercollegiate Compliance Branch and the AOC and/or
   AMT of the change.
3. Athletic Scheduling. USAFA/AD will provide a list of each sport’s primary season start and
stop dates to the Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW) and Cadet Wing Commander
(AFCW/CC) no later than the beginning of each academic year. The remaining weeks in the
academic year for a particular sport are considered non-primary (i.e. practice and conditioning
and/or weight training).
   3.1. USAFA Schedule of Calls (SOC). Intercollegiate athletes will comply with the USAFA
   Schedule of Calls.
   3.2. Team Practice. Scheduled intercollegiate practice is conducted in accordance with the
   USAFA SOC, Monday thru Saturday, and will not exceed the NCAA maximum weekly
   practice hour limitations. During this time, any scheduled intercollegiate practice takes
   precedence over regularly-scheduled military training and formations (Table 2.). Practicing
   twice a day will be allowed on a case-by-case basis with approval from the USAFA/AD and
   USAFA Scheduling Committee.
   3.3. Military Formations. All intercollegiate athletes are required to attend all military
   formations that occur outside the excusal time granted by the USAFA Schedule of Calls
   (SOC) or an approved Scheduling Committee Action (SCA).
 4                                                        USAFAI36-3518 20 NOVEMBER 2012




Table 2. Athletic Team Attendance at Formations.
              ACTIVITY                                               EXCUSAL
 Monday through Friday (parades, retreat)         All scheduled intercollegiate practices and
                                                  competition IAW USAFA SOC and/or SCA
 Silver Weekends (Friday)                         All scheduled intercollegiate practices and
                                                  competition IAW USAFA SOC and/or SCA
                                                  Primary season practices and SCA for
 Silver Weekends (Saturday)                       competitions
 Blue Weekends (To include discretionary          All scheduled intercollegiate practices and
 training)                                        competitions.
 Mandatory Meal Formations                        Comply with scheduling committee action or
                                                  Schedule of Calls.
 Academics                                        As authorized by USAFAI 36-2014 (will
                                                  renumber to USAFAI 36-3536) and approved
                                                  by the USAFA Scheduling Committee.
 Major Training Events (i.e., Recognition)        As agreed upon by the Commandant and
                                                  USAFA/AD as documented in governing
                                                  SCA(s) and or OPORD
     3.4. Cadet Athletes are excused from all formation, meal, meeting, or appointments 4-1/2
     hours prior to the contest start time, or the block of time approved by the SOC or specific
     SCA.
        3.4.1. Intercollegiate athletes who have a team meal scheduled and do not have SCA
        approval to miss the Noon Meal Formation will participate in the Noon Meal Formation.
        Athletes will march with their squadron or flight and remain with the Cadet Wing until
        they are excused by Wing Staff. Wing Staff will generally excuse cadets 10 minutes after
        the command ―Wing Take Seats.‖
     3.5. Military Physical Training. Intercollegiate athletes will not take part in military
     physical training activities the day before or the day of a scheduled contest. Intercollegiate
     athletes will participate in morning physical training IAW the SOC and Commandant
     Guidance. Since mandatory meal formations and marching are not physical training, all
     cadets without SCA will be present, to include athletes.
     3.6. ―Sleep Throughs.‖ Except for cadets returning from an academy sponsored trip after
     Taps, there are no events that warrant a ―sleep through‖ during the week. Per USAFAI 36-
     2014 (will renumber to USAFAI 36-3536), teams that return after Taps will sign-in and
     resume attending mandatory activities not earlier than 7½ hours after their return, i.e. classes,
     squadron details, Charge of Quarters (CQ), calling minutes, etc. Intercollegiate athletes must
     sign in NLT 1 hour after arriving at USAFA and Team Captain must notify the Command
     Center what time the team arrived at USAFA.
USAFAI36-3518 20 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                 5


   3.7. Team Meals. Team meals are mandatory military formations and cadets will show up
   on time in the uniform of the day or team travel attire as approved by USAFA/AD and the
   Commandant.
   3.8. Scheduled Wing-Wide Military Training Weekends (i.e., Silver Weekends, Parades,
   Retreat).
       3.8.1. Per the USAFA SOC, intercollegiate time takes precedence Monday through
       Saturday during training activities.
       3.8.2. Teams in their primary season are excused from all scheduled wing-wide military
       training and/or activities for a scheduled intercollegiate practice or competition. Cadets
       excused from a Saturday Morning Inspection (SAMI) will have their rooms in Morning
       Inspection (AMI) order if practicing. Teams with home contests will not have their
       rooms inspected. Their roommates not on teams will go to another room for the SAMI.
       USAFA/ADPL will provide a list of teams requiring competition rest to CW 2 days prior
       to the training event. Excused cadets will wear the short sleeve blue shirt to and from
       athletic practices, competitions, and to all Mitchell Hall meals during scheduled training
       times.
       3.8.3. Per USAFAI 36-2014 (will renumber to USAFAI 36-3536), intercollegiate teams
       participating in varsity or junior varsity competitions on Silver Weekends will be excused
       from military training preparation and from military training (SAMIs, Operational
       Readiness Inspections [ORI], parades, etc.) from 12 hours prior to the start of their SCA
       excusal to 15 hours after sign-in from the competition.
   3.9. Supplemental Wing-Wide Military Training Weekends (i.e., Blue Weekends). Teams
   will be excused from any cadet-directed group or supplemental military training and
   formations on Blue Weekends when they have scheduled intercollegiate practices or
   competitions (primary or non-primary season).
4. Eligibility.
   4.1. Academic Requirements.
       4.1.1. NCAA Requirements. Eligibility for competing in an intercollegiate athletic
       contest will, as a minimum, be in accordance with the Constitution and Bylaws of the
       NCAA. NCAA eligibility standards include both minimum cumulative Grade Point
       Average (GPA) criteria and satisfactory progress toward graduation.
           4.1.1.1. Intercollegiate eligibility requirements will, at a minimum, adhere to NCAA
           requirements. Intercollegiate eligibility requirements are intentionally different and
           may not mirror requirements for club sport.
       4.1.2. Ineligibility. A member of an intercollegiate squad whose cumulative GPA falls
       below the standards in Table 3. at the time a new semester begins becomes ineligible for
       competition until the beginning of the next semester (if he or she meets the cumulative
       GPA requirement).
 6                                                       USAFAI36-3518 20 NOVEMBER 2012




Table 3. NCAA Intercollegiate Eligibility GPA Requirements.
 Beginning of Semester                   Cumulative GPA
 3                                       1.80
 4                                       1.80
 5                                       1.90
 6                                       1.90
 7 and subsequent semesters              2.00
        4.1.3. Additional Academic Standards. In addition to the NCAA standards in Table 3.,
        student-athletes are ineligible with: Multiple F grades in the same semester, an F in a
        repeat course, Major’s GPA less than a 2.00 during the first-class year, or a cumulative
        Military Performance Average (MPA) or Physical Education Average (PEA) below a
        1.50. Only the USAFA Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC) can approve waivers to these
        USAFA standards.
     4.2. Eligibility Committees. The eligibility committees for intercollegiate teams will
     determine a proper course of action for deficient cadet-athletes. The decision to retain
     deficient cadet-athletes on the team rests with the eligibility committee. [Cadet-athletes on
     honor probation may not represent the Academy during competitions.] Eligibility committee
     composition and procedures are covered in detail in USAFAI 36-3523, Review and
     Disposition of Deficient Cadets.
     4.3. Athletic Probation. If a head coach elects to not have an athlete participate in
     reconditioning, they will provide the Directorate of Athletics’ Fitness and
     Testing/Reconditioning Branch with a proposed workout plan to ensure the individual makes
     progress toward graduation requirements. Eligibility Committee Chairs will provide input
     regarding the progress of cadets on athletic probation in the published eligibility committee
     meeting minutes.
5. Team Attire.
     5.1. Team Attire. Team attire will be in accordance with Air Force Cadet Wing Manual
     (AFCWMAN) 36-3501, The Cadet Sight Picture, and is outlined here for reference.
        5.1.1. Air Transportation. Short sleeve blue shirts and athletic jackets will be the
        standard attire for commercial air travel. For military air travel, flight suits, Airman
        Battle Uniforms, or team sweat suits are authorized. Teams traveling as part of a
        contingent will ensure they are uniform with the contingent. The head coach or Officer
        Representative (OR) may require modifications to the uniform based on weather
        conditions such as long sleeve shirts and ties, service dress uniform, or no athletic jacket.
        Neither the Head Coach nor the Officer Representative (OR) can deviate from this
        guidance without approval of their Sports Administrator.
        5.1.2. Ground Transportation. An approved team uniform may be worn. Coaches and
        ORs are responsible for ensuring the team uniform favorably represents the Academy and
        is worn by the entire team. The competition or game uniform may be worn if traveling
        directly to and from a local contest if no intermediate stops are planned or if facilities
USAFAI36-3518 20 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                   7


      and/or locker rooms are not available. Team meals may be eaten at a public
      establishment as long as the meal is eaten as a team.
      5.1.3. Civilian Clothing. When civilian clothing is required, it must be approved by the
      Senior/Sport Administrators. Athletes should wear attire that is appropriate and in good
      taste. Otherwise, team travel sweats will be worn by all team members while at away
      contests (i.e., to and from meals, hotels, contests, etc.).
      5.1.4. Security. USAFA/AD, in coordination with the Commandant, can make changes
      to the uniform at their discretion based on security concerns.
   5.2. Team Workout Clothing. Teams will be in the designated attire determined by the
   coach and must be in ―Air Force Athletics‖ colors (blue, grey, white, black) with only Air
   Force Athletics’ logos and/or team name. Members will not mix uniform types (USAFA T-
   shirt and gray shorts, blue sweats under normal Physical Conditioning running suit, etc.).
   Intercollegiate athletes will wear the issued USAFA Running Suit or UOD to and from
   practice during the duty day. (Practice is the last military duty for intercollegiate athletes.)
   5.3. Team Issued Running Suit in Mitchell Hall. The team issued running suit is only
   allowed in Mitchell Hall when the team is departing on a bus trip and the wear of the running
   suit will not overlap with a scheduled wing wide formation or meal. In addition, this uniform
   combination will be coordinated with Mitchell Hall via USAFA/ADPL and/or the
   Intercollegiate Logistics Branch when the team meal is set up.
6. Alcohol and Team Social Functions.
   6.1. Alcohol Consumption. Cadets will not consume alcoholic beverages on team trips
   unless approved by the HQ USAFA/AD and the Commandant.
   6.2. Team Dining Pass. Teams are allowed one team dining pass per month. Coaches will
   coordinate through USAFA/ADPL no later than two days prior to the planned event to ensure
   there are no conflicts. Teams will comply with the blanket dining pass SCA. As a general
   guideline, Dining Passes are not to be used on Silver Weekends. Teams utilizing their
   Dining Pass must be accompanied by a Coach or Officer Representative.
7. Dining Hall Procedures.
   7.1. Purpose. The purpose of team tables is to provide extra meal portions and nutritionally
   balanced, low-calorie options for intercollegiate athletes dependent on their training year
   calendar. Team tables provide leadership opportunities as well as an open line of
   communication through coaches to team captains and athletes. Intercollegiate athletes will
   sit at team tables for the noon meal during the academic year. Only those athletes who are
   current roster members will sit at team tables.
   7.2. Use of Formal Dining Room. On select pre-coordinated days, the football traveling
   team (primary season) will normally be the only athletic team to use the informal dining
   room for noon meals. Other intercollegiate teams will be seated by team for the noon meal
   on the floor with the Cadet Wing. Decorum guidelines for intercollegiate team tables are
   documented in Attachment 2.
   7.3. Team Table Requirements. Team table requirements (i.e. Training and Light or Regular
   tables) will be coordinated through USAFA/ADPL and the 10th Forces Support Squadron
   Mitchell Hall (10 FSS/FSLF).
 8                                                     USAFAI36-3518 20 NOVEMBER 2012


     7.4. Pre-Game and/or Post-Game Meals. Pre-game meals and/or box lunches will be
     coordinated through the USAFA/ADSL in accordance with (IAW) USAFAI 34-104,
     Operating the Cadet Dining Facility.
     7.5. Team Table Conduct. USAFA/AD reserves the right to close team tables on an
     individual team basis if decorum falls below an acceptable level. Team captains and coaches
     are responsible for the conduct of the team. USAFA/ADPL will ensure coaches are
     scheduled to oversee decorum at team tables per Attachment 2.
     7.6. Practice and Meals. Every team shall ensure practices end with enough time for cadets
     to make the evening buffet meal. Intercollegiate time per the SOC includes time for the
     evening meal.
8. Team Captains.
     8.1. Selection. USAFA/AD approves all team captains after approval recommendation is
     received from each team’s senior administrator. A team captain is selected from the
     members of the in-coming First-Class cadets. Justification is required if someone other than
     a First Class cadet is selected. Teams should strive to appoint one team captain. Team
     captains will be approved by the USAFA/AD and the list will be forwarded to the Dean and
     Commandant.
     8.2. Cadet Rank. Team captains will wear rank in accordance with their assigned chain-of-
     command or staff duty position. The team captain has command authority over all respective
     team members for all actions pertinent to the team. Team captain insignia includes a silver
     lightening bolt centered above the rank on the individual’s shoulder boards.
     8.3. Responsibilities and Instructions.
        8.3.1. Enforcement of Rules and Standards. The team captain is responsible to the head
        coach, the OR, and Commandant for the enforcement of all instructions and the
        observation of proper discipline by the team. Team captains also provide liaison between
        the coach and the team.
        8.3.2. Table Commandant. The team captain will act as Table Commandant of his or her
        dining table and will exercise supervision over all other tables assigned to the team. If
        there is more than one table for a given team, the Team Captain will assign a first class
        cadet team member as Table Commandant. A Second-Class cadet team member may sit
        as Table Commandant if a First-Class cadet team member is not available. Table
        Commandants are responsible for the conduct, accountability, and decorum of their
        cadets. Table Commandants will not leave Fourth-Class cadets unsupervised at team
        tables.
        8.3.3. Travel Sign-In. Team members will sign-in to their squadron within 1 hour of the
        teams’ arrival at USAFA. ORs should notify the Cadet Command Center at 333-2910
        and the specific sport supervisor when teams are considerably delayed for inclusion in the
        Wing Status Summary.
9. Training Event Deconfliction.
     9.1. In order to allow for maximum four class participation during major training events,
     USAFA/AD will attempt to avoid scheduling competitions that conflict with proposed event
     dates.
USAFAI36-3518 20 NOVEMBER 2012                                                     9


  9.2. USAFA/AD and Commandant coordination is required at the start of each academic
  year to anticipate training conflicts.




                                      DR. HANS J. MUEH
                                      Director of Athletics
 10                                                  USAFAI36-3518 20 NOVEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFCWMAN 36-3501, The Cadet Sight Picture
AFI 36-3501, Air Force Academy Operations
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI 34-104, Operating the Cadet Dining Facility
USAFAI 36-2014, Allocation of Cadet Time
USAFAI 36-3523, Review and Disposition of Deficient Cadets
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFCW—Air Force Cadet Wing
AFCWMAN—Air Force Cadet Wing Manual
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMI—Morning Inspection
AMT—Academy Military Trainer
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
CQ—Charge of Quarters
GPA—Grade Point Average
IAW—In Accordance With
MPA—Military Performance Average
NCAA—National Collegiate Athletic Association
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OR—Officer Representative
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
PEA—Physical Education Average
RDS—Record Disposition Schedule
SAMI—Saturday Morning Inspection
USAFAI36-3518 20 NOVEMBER 2012                                                            11


SCA—Scheduling Committee Action
SCOA—Squadron Chief of Athletics
SOC—Schedule of Calls
UOD—Uniform of the Day
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI—United States Air Force Academy Instruction

Terms
Competitions—Competitions are defined as those with another NCAA school or outside
organization previously approved by the USAFA Scheduling Committee. Scheduled intra-squad
games and/or matches are also considered competitions.
NCAA—The governing body for USAFA participation in athletics at the collegiate level.
Non—Primary Season—The part of the academic year that does not include the primary
season.
Primary Season—The primary (i.e., practice and competition) season for a particular sport is
the approximate 5 months during the academic year that represents the most crucial training
period for each sport. Some sports will have Primary Season dates in both the Fall and the
Spring.
Scheduled Intercollegiate Practice—A scheduled intercollegiate practice is a mandatory coach-
monitored practice. This coach may be a coach within the particular sport, weight-training
coach, or conditioning coach. Any optional, individual, or ―team captain‖ practice does not
constitute a scheduled intercollegiate practice.
Team Dining Pass—SCA approved pass for teams to dine at a restaurant of their choosing.
These passes are limited to one per month.
 12                                                       USAFAI36-3518 20 NOVEMBER 2012


                                           Attachment 2
                                DECORUM AT TEAM TABLES

A2.1. Team captains are responsible for the decorum and actions of all cadets on their team.
Student Athletes are expected to set the standard of decorum.
A2.2. Table commandants are responsible for decorum and actions of all cadets at their table.
   A2.2.1. Team tables are a privilege extended by USAFA/AD and Commandant of Cadets.
   A2.2.2. Table commandants and/or senior ranking cadets will be removed from team tables
   if they fail to control decorum violations by any cadet at the table and are subject to possible
   disciplinary actions.
A2.3. Good Posture--elbows off the table.
A2.4. Good Manners.
   A2.4.1. At no time will anything be thrown during the meal.
   A2.4.2. Police all spills before leaving table--tablecloth should be left as clean as practical.
A2.5. Proper Etiquette.
   A2.5.1. Begin eating after ―wing take seats.‖
   A2.5.2. Cadets will rise when addressed by an officer or upper-class cadet who is standing.
A2.6. Prior to Mitchell Hall being an at rest facility:
   A2.6.1. A First or Second Class cadet will remain at table until the last Fourth Class cadet
   departs.
   A2.6.2. Fourth Class cadets will remain at attention until the staff tower announces wing
   take seats and may then sit at rest.
   A2.6.3. Fourth Class cadets will return to attention as they rise from the table to depart.
