BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                               UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                       INSTRUCTION 32-7067
(USAFE)                                                                                    24 JULY 2007
                                                                       Certified Current on 16 April 2014
                                                                                       Civil Engineering

                                                     USAFE CLEANUP PROGRAM MANAGEMENT




                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/A7CVR                                                      Certified by: HQ USAFE/A7CV
                                                                                     (Mr. Dennis J. Scott)
Supersedes USAFEI32-7067, 26 March 2002                                                       Pages: 31

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-70, Environmental Quality and sup-
ports policy established by Department of Defense (DOD) Instruction (DODI) 4715.8, Environmental
Remediation for DOD Activities Overseas, European Command (EUCOM) Directive (ED) 80-2, Environ-
mental Executive Agent Remediation Policy, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 32-7006, Environmental
Program in Foreign Countries. This instruction outlines the overall framework for bases to manage their
Cleanup Program ensuring consistency across United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE). This instruc-
tion applies to HQ USAFE, USAFE installations including main operating bases (MOB), their geograph-
ically separated units (GSU) and those areas leased to the United States Air Force (USAF) (to the extent
required or authorized under applicable agreements). This instruction applies when USAFE personnel and
assets are used to remediate environmental contamination caused by uncontrolled or unconfined releases
of hazardous substances and petroleum, oil, and lubricants (POL), from United States (US) DOD activi-
ties within the USAFE area of responsibility (AOR). In cases where it conflicts with the requirements of
applicable international agreements or environmental annexes to operational directives, this instruction
does not apply. This instruction does not address hazardous material management or the initial response
to hazardous substance releases. Such topics are covered in the country-specific Final Governing Stan-
dards (FGS) or, in countries where no FGS exist, the Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Docu-
ment (OEBGD) and other USAFE instructions/policies. This publication does not apply to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) units or to the Air National Guard (ANG). This instruction integrates, or oth-
erwise employs the concepts of sustainable operations, natural infrastructure management and is consis-
tent with the USAFE environmental management system (EMS) implementation. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in AFRIMS (AF Portal).
2                                                                                                USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007



SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This publication has been
substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This version consolidates and supersedes the 26
March 2002 version of this policy and the supplemental USAFE Environmental Cleanup Program Policy
dated 9 June 2004. Major changes include the incorporation of a EUCOM standard format for remedial
action management plans (RAMP), clarification on the cleanup process and related terms, and updated
administrative information (e.g, office symbols).
      1.     Guidance: ...................................................................................................................    3
      2.     Responsibilities: .........................................................................................................      3
      3.     Program Scope, Procedures, and Documentation. .....................................................                              7
      4.     Cleanup Program Filing and Reporting: ....................................................................                      11
      5.     HN Authorities Involvement and the Release of Documents: ...................................                                    11
      6.     Programming and Budgeting: ....................................................................................                 12
      7.     Remediation Impacts on Construction Projects. ........................................................                          13
      8.     Environmental Management of DOD Inactive and Active Ranges Overseas. ..........                                                 13

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              14

Attachment 2— USAFE CLEANUP PROGRAM OVERVIEW                                                                                                 19

Attachment 3— HQ USAFE THREAT ASSESSMENT WORKSHEET                                                                                           20

Attachment 4— REMEDIAL ACTION MANAGEMENT PLAN (RAMP) CRITERIA                                                                                22

Attachment 5— USAFE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP PROGRAM GOALS
           AND OBJECTIVES                                                                                                                    25

Attachment 6— ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP PROGRAMMING STANDARDS                                                                                    27

Attachment 7— ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP SITE CLOSURE CRITERIA                                                                                    29
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                                             3


1. Guidance:
   1.1. General Information. HQ USAFE and each USAFE installation must conduct remedial actions
   according to international agreement requirements, DOD policy, EUCOM policy, Air Force (AF) pol-
   icy, and this instruction. Unless an applicable international agreement says otherwise, a risk-based
   strategy must be used to determine where and how much remediation to perform. The risk-based strat-
   egy will use a teaming approach involving installation personnel, HQ USAFE staff, appropriate DOD
   Environmental Executive Agent (EEA), and host nation (HN) authorities as required.
   1.2. Scope and Concept. The HQ USAFE Installation Cleanup Program consists of four phases.
   These phases cover the management of sites where environmental contamination is suspected and
   sites where environmental contamination exists as a result of uncontrolled or unconfined hazardous
   substances releases from US DOD, DOD contractor, or non-DOD US government agency activities.
   HQ USAFE and each USAFE installation must develop, conduct, and maintain a program to discover
   contaminated sites, validate the extent of the problem, assess the risk and institute remedial action,
   hence the four phases: Site Discovery, Validation, Risk Assessment, and Remedial Action. This pro-
   gram reduces threats to human health, safety, or mission operations. The HQ USAFE Cleanup Pro-
   gram overview diagram is located in Attachment 2.

2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. Major Command (MAJCOM).
       2.1.1. The USAFE Commander (COMUSAFE), (USAFE/CC) is the EEA for the United King-
       dom (UK), Turkey, and Portugal (Azores) as stipulated in DODI 4715.8 and any supplemental
       documentation, and is responsible for the overall risk management of the cleanup programs ensur-
       ing compliance with DOD, EUCOM, and AF policies as well as international agreements.
       COMUSAFE has delegated all EEA responsibilities to the USAFE Vice Commander (USAFE/
       CV). COMUSAFE is also the DOD Component Commander for all USAFE installations located
       within the EUCOM geographic area of responsibility (AOR). USAFE/CV may delegate certain
       EEA and DOD Component Commander cleanup responsibilities under this USAFE instruction to
       The USAFE Civil Engineer.
       2.1.2. The USAFE Civil Engineer provides environmental oversight to all USAFE installations
       located within the EUCOM AOR and supports all DOD EEAs to ensure compliance with DOD,
       EUCOM, and AF policies as well as international agreements.
       2.1.3. USAFE Environmental Safety and Occupational Health Council (ESOHC) Cleanup Sub-
       committee. Key members of the USAFE ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee include representatives
       from the HQ USAFE Environmental Function (Chairman), HQ USAFE Environmental Engineer-
       ing, HQ USAFE International Law, HQ USAFE Public Affairs, and HQ USAFE Ground Safety.
       Installation representatives and others attend as required. According to the USAFE ESOHC
       Cleanup Subcommittee charter, the Cleanup Subcommittee reviews, evaluates, and proposes rec-
       ommendations on the implementation of the cleanup program throughout USAFE. The subcom-
       mittee reports the progress toward accomplishing the Commander in Chief (CINC) EUCOM,
       Secretary of the Air Force, and Chief of Staff of the Air Force objectives and goals to the USAFE
       ESOHC. The USAFE ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee:
          2.1.3.1. Resolves program management and execution issues in the discovery and cleanup of
          contaminated sites, advises installation commanders on how to manage restoration sites, forms
4                                                                   USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


       and disbands subordinate working groups as required, and serves as the primary cross-func-
       tional integration element for all environmental cleanup issues and programs.
       2.1.3.2. Develops, reviews, approves, and oversees the command cleanup program as defined
       by DOD policy, which includes HN standards, Air Force policy, and Executive Order; advises
       leadership on and directs critical or sensitive remediation activities at the installation level;
       reviews and validates all RAMPs prior to seeking approval; reviews USAFE implementing
       guidance and instruction for new DOD and AF cleanup directives; reviews, evaluates, and
       approves annual financial plans; and integrates cross-functional issues with other subcommit-
       tees.
       2.1.3.3. Produces a current command prioritized cleanup sites list, recommended funding
       strategy for the command cleanup program, and program reports as requested by the USAFE
       ESOHC.
    2.1.4. The HQ USAFE Environmental Function (HQ USAFE/A7AV):
       2.1.4.1. Supports and advises all DOD EEAs, The USAFE Civil Engineer, and USAFE instal-
       lations as required.
       2.1.4.2. Prepares, coordinates, and implements cleanup policies.
       2.1.4.3. Coordinates, consults, and negotiates with installation level and HN authorities as
       authorized and required.
       2.1.4.4. Provides technical assistance, advice, and training.
           2.1.4.4.1. Performs Discovery (Phase 1) and Risk Assessment (Phase 3) if the command
           cleanup program manager (CCPM) determines this to be in the best interest of USAFE.
       2.1.4.5. Ensures compliance with sustainable operations and natural infrastructure manage-
       ment concepts.
       2.1.4.6. Audits the program implementation and quality by established metric(s), quarterly
       data calls and the Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health Compliance Assessment
       Management Program (ESOHCAMP).
       2.1.4.7. Validates projects and supports budgeting and funding.
       2.1.4.8. Coordinates with the respective DOD EEAs.
    2.1.5. HQ USAFE Environmental Function Restoration Element (HQ USAFE/A7AVR). Per-
    forms the overall risk management of USAFE’s Installation Cleanup Programs, participates in
    installation programs only as required, and chairs the USAFE ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee.
    The function identifies a CCPM to oversee the management and implementation of Phase 3 (Risk
    Assessment) and Phase 4 (Remedial Action) of the Cleanup Program in conjunction with the
    installation cleanup program manager (ICPM). The function also conducts at least one annual
    workshop for training and education of ICPM. The workshop provides detailed information on
    how the Cleanup Program phases should be approached and implemented. The function provides
    updates to this policy as required due to changes in DOD, EUCOM, AF, and HN statutes.
    2.1.6. HQ USAFE International Law Function (HQ USAFE/JAI). Provides legal reviews, inter-
    pretations, and advice on all HN matters, correspondence, issues, and laws as well as DOD,
    EUCOM, AF, and USAFE policies to ensure they are understood by all necessary personnel
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                                             5


     enabling sound and legal environmental decisions. HQ USAFE/JAI reviews new policies planned
     for implementation by the HQ USAFE Environmental Function for legal sufficiency. HQ USAFE/
     JAI is a member of the USAFE ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee.
     2.1.7. HQ USAFE Bioenvironmental Engineering (HQ USAFE/SGPB) is the USAFE medical
     authority for any human health risk-based decisions, policies, and guidance. This office assists the
     installation bioenvironmental engineers in supporting the Base Environmental Functions with the
     necessary information to identify, evaluate, and cleanup contaminated sites removing any unac-
     ceptable risk to human health, and is a member of the USAFE ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee.
     2.1.8. HQ USAFE Ground Safety (HQ USAFE/SEG). Assists the USAFE ESOHC Cleanup Sub-
     committee and their installation Safety Offices with the necessary information to make an
     informed decision as to any safety risk associated with contaminated land. HQ USAFE/SEG is a
     member of the USAFE ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee.
     2.1.9. HQ USAFE Public Affairs- Operations Division (HQ USAFE/PAO). Provides USAFE
     ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee public affairs advice and council on public communication
     issues, as well as expertise on DOD, EUCOM, and AF public affairs policy. HQ USAFE/PAO will
     develop public affairs guidance for HQ or base-level execution when appropriate. HQ USAFE/
     PAO is a member of the USAFE ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee.
  2.2. USAFE Installations:
     2.2.1. Installation Commander. After receiving confirmation of contamination, reviewing the risk
     assessment, and considering installation ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee recommendations, the
     installation commander will forward a recommendation for remedial action of a contaminated site
     in the form of a RAMP to HQ USAFE Environmental Function for action.
     2.2.2. Base Civil Engineer (BCE). The BCE oversees the overall program management at the
     installation to which they are assigned, including the installation’s subordinate sites and GSUs,
     and supports the Base Environmental Function and ICPM with appropriate resources.
     2.2.3. Installation ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee. An ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee will be
     established at each USAFE installation, chaired by the ICPM or the Base Environmental Function.
     Installation legal, public affairs, engineering, environmental, bioenvironmental, real estate,
     ground safety, and relevant non-voting members as required, e.g., HN design agencies, will com-
     prise the subcommittee. The ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee will review and validate data on sus-
     pected contaminated sites, including a threat assessment of each suspected site. If the
     subcommittee determines there is a potential threat, the site is identified as a “contaminated site”
     and the subcommittee will prioritize the site for risk assessment and submit it to the HQ USAFE
     Environmental Function for further action. If no threat appears likely, the subcommittee records
     the site as “Excluded,” and takes no further action. The subcommittee will submit meeting min-
     utes to the HQ USAFE Environmental Function for information to ensure theater-wide program
     consistency. This group will also oversee compliance with applicable cleanup goals and take nec-
     essary measures to ensure the goals are obtained.
     2.2.4. Base Environmental Function. The Base Environmental Function implements the USAFE
     cleanup policy and develops respective local guidance. The Base Environmental Function desig-
     nates an ICPM and an alternate, as required, to manage and implement all phases of the program
     using a teaming approach between the installation and the HQ USAFE Environmental Function
     according to this instruction.
6                                                                   USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


    2.2.5. Installation Cleanup Program Manager. The ICPM manages the overall installation cleanup
    program including all associated cleanup sites and projects. ICPMs should, where applicable:
       2.2.5.1. Ensure a Site Discovery (Phase 1) effort for their area of responsibility is accom-
       plished (to the extent required or authorized under applicable agreements).
       2.2.5.2. Initiate and manage the Validation (Phase 2) process and support preparation of the
       validation report.
       2.2.5.3. Coordinate, in advance, with the command cleanup program manager to accomplish
       Risk Assessment and Remedial Action phases of the program.
       2.2.5.4. Develop bullet background papers (BBP), statements of work (SOW) with specifica-
       tions, and RAMPs in support of all phases of the cleanup program.
       2.2.5.5. Prepare and provide documentation to the HQ USAFE Environmental Function quar-
       terly, or as requested.
       2.2.5.6. Monitor and/or provide guidance for adequate oversight of remediation projects in
       coordination with the HQ USAFE Environmental Function, in conjunction with contracting,
       and directs quality assurance (QA) to ensure proper application of DOD and USAFE policy, as
       well as proper application of standards and state-of-the-art cleanup technologies.
       2.2.5.7. Ensure that the Base Development Office reviews and understands the nature of the
       contaminated sites to avoid incompatible land use situations.
    2.2.6. Installation Base Development Office. The installation Base Development Office ensures
    new buildings are not planned for construction on contaminated sites. The office accomplishes
    this by incorporating the installation cleanup program contaminated sites list into the installation
    comprehensive plan, and coordinating plans and proposed facility locations with the ICPM prior
    to receiving Facilities Board approval.
    2.2.7. Installation Project and Construction Engineers. The installation project and construction
    engineers, as well as other base organizations included in construction, must coordinate further
    action, to include obtaining any required construction permits with the ICPM and inform the
    ICPM as soon as possible when contaminated soil or groundwater has been identified during
    project construction.
    2.2.8. Installation Real Estate Managers. The installation real estate managers must coordinate
    closely with HQ USAFE Real Estate Managers and the ICPM prior to making any final decision
    about the closure of installations which may include areas of suspected soil or groundwater con-
    tamination. This includes coordination on requests to acquire property not currently in the posses-
    sion of US Forces.
    2.2.9. Installation Bioenvironmental Engineer. The installation bioenvironmental engineer is the
    representative of the installation medical authority and must coordinate on any human health
    risk-based decisions. The installation bioenvironmental engineer reviews and approves suspected
    contaminated site validations; reviews SOWs or project specifications for contaminated sites risk
    assessments, has final review of risk assessments; and interprets risk-based results and remedial
    action documents.
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                                               7


       2.2.10. Installation Staff Judge Advocate. The installation Staff Judge Advocate consults with the
       HQ USAFE international law office to ensure all HN, DOD, EUCOM, AF, and USAFE policies
       are understood by all necessary personnel so sound and legal environmental decisions are made.
       2.2.11. Installation Ground Safety Office. The installation Ground Safety Office coordinates
       closely with the ICPM to assess contaminated sites for their effect on the safety of AF personnel
       and ensure environmental cleanup costs resulting from mishaps are incorporated into mishap
       investigation reports, as required by AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports. Additionally,
       the installation safety office reviews contracts, SOWs, performance work statements, service con-
       tracts, and project specifications to ensure applicable safety requirements are included.

3. Program Scope, Procedures, and Documentation. The USAFE Cleanup Program consists of four
phases covering the management of remedial actions of suspected or known environmental contamination
resulting from uncontrolled or unconfined hazardous substances releases from DOD activities, as well as
activities of DOD contractors or non-DOD US Government agencies (e.g., Department of State or
National Aeronautical and Space Administration (NASA)). The ICPM is the focal point to manage the
installation cleanup program.
   3.1. Phase 1--Site Discovery (DISCO). Discovery of suspected contaminated sites must be accom-
   plished at all USAFE installations (to the extent required or authorized under applicable agreements)
   and managed at the installation level with assistance from the HQ USAFE Environmental Function as
   needed. The ICPM must identify and track suspected contaminated sites in an installation contami-
   nated sites database to avoid adverse impacts to human health and to avoid uncontrolled hazardous
   substance releases. If a potential pollutant discharge area (PPDA) is identified during the site discov-
   ery, the ICPM must notify the spill program manager to ensure the PPDA is addressed in the base Spill
   Plan.
       3.1.1. Action. The installation ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee forms an installation site discov-
       ery team whenever needed to investigate those locations where hazardous substances were han-
       dled in the past or are currently being handled, used, stored, treated, or disposed of and where
       those substances may have been or have been released through spills to the environment. The sub-
       committee selects team members based on their knowledge and experience with hazardous sub-
       stances and may be comprised of representatives from fuels, logistics, and maintenance functions.
       The ICPM, supported by the ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee, plans the team’s activities, receives
       information from the team, and reports on the team’s progress to the installation ESOHC. The HQ
       USAFE Environmental Function provides training, guidance, and ANG support for these teams
       and assists with the investigations, if requested and available.
       3.1.2. Documentation. A list of the suspected and confirmed contaminated sites must be devel-
       oped and maintained by the ICPM. For the site specifics required by the HQ USAFE Environmen-
       tal Function, see para 4.2. Data for all sites data must be updated quarterly or as required. When
       available, the sites must then be entered into the installation Geographical Information System
       (GIS) database.
           3.1.2.1. Sites Discovered Beyond the DISCO Process. Suspected contaminated sites may also
           be discovered during routine base activities (e.g. construction, environmental monitoring, etc)
           outside of the DISCO process. Sites discovered this way must be inserted into the contami-
           nated sites database and addressed accordingly through the cleanup process.
8                                                                        USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


           3.1.2.2. Spill Cleanup Sites. Initial response to a hazardous substances spill typically includes
           elimination/isolation of the spill source and recovery of the spilled material. If the initial
           response cannot remove the contaminants to under the maximum contamination levels
           imposed by the FGS, HN, or international agreement, the spill site will be inserted into the
           contaminated sites database and addressed accordingly through the cleanup process.
    3.2. Phase 2--Validation. Installation personnel must coordinate with the installation bioenviron-
    mental engineers to validate all suspected contaminated sites identified during the Phase 1 process or
    during uncontained hazardous substance releases.
       3.2.1. Action. A site validation must be done for suspected contaminated sites or sites resulting
       from an uncontrolled hazardous substances release. The installation ESOHC Cleanup Subcommit-
       tee must conduct site validations of all discovered sites suspected of contamination based on
       actual or potential endangerment to human health and safety, and the overall operations at the
       installation. Limited fieldwork such as drilling and media sampling may be required to validate
       the site. The validation team members may use the “USAFE Threat Assessment Worksheet” in
       Attachment 3 or another tool deemed appropriate by the installation bioenvironmental engineers.
       Sites without a potential threat will be considered excluded sites. Such sites will remain listed on
       the DISCO inventory maps and GIS database when available, but will be excluded from further
       action. Excluded sites reactivated because of new information concerning old contamination will
       continue to be identified using the current site identification: however, if a new spill occurs at the
       location of a previously excluded site and the spill could not be completely recovered, it will
       receive a new site identification.
       3.2.2. Documentation. The installation ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee must produce a validation
       or nonvalidation (excluded) report for each suspected site and approve it within their meeting min-
       utes.
    3.3. Phase 3--Risk Assessment. Validated sites that are not excluded must be assessed to determine
    the level of risk presented by the contamination. Risk assessment consists of site characterization, i.e.,
    physical investigation; and site assessment, i.e., using the site characterization data to determine the
    risk. The ICPM accomplishes the site assessment with support from a competent HQ USAFE risk
    assessor and the USAFE risk assessment decision support system (RADDS), unless the base receives
    approval from the command cleanup program manager (CCPM) to apply an alternative method more
    appropriate for the situation. The installation and USAFE ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittees will then
    coordinate and review the calculated risk to determine what, if any, remediation may be required. If
    the site does not pose an unacceptable risk, it will be excluded. Sites determined to pose an unaccept-
    able risk will be targeted for remediation and will require a RAMP.
       3.3.1. Action. The ICPM must produce a list of contaminated sites requiring a risk assessment
       based on the results of Phase 2. Efforts must be made to consolidate as many sites as practicable
       into a single assessment project to reduce cost. Additionally, a BBP must be prepared for each
       requested risk assessment project to document the background of each site and why a risk assess-
       ment is being required, along with copies of the actual Automated Civil Engineer System (ACES)
       project entries and SOWs. This will enable proper funding validation. The SOW will allow proper
       contracting action. The ICPM submits all documents to CCPM for project validation and funding.
       3.3.2. Documentation. The ICPM will manage the risk assessment projects at the installation in
       consultation with CCPM. The installation bioenvironmental engineer shall coordinate on human
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                                                9


     health risk assessment input. A competent risk assessor will lead the risk assessment for each site
     which must address, at a minimum, contaminants, pathways, and receptors.
        3.3.2.1. Contaminants. The competent risk assessor confirms the accuracy of the data used to
        determine the presence or absence of significant contaminants found at the site. The installa-
        tion bioenvironmental engineer reviews the decision process regarding which contaminants
        were considered and eliminated from consideration and how risks to human health were calcu-
        lated.
        3.3.2.2. Pathways. The ICPM records the decision process leading to which pathways were
        considered and which were eliminated from consideration, as well as the hydrogeological con-
        ditions present at the site and its environs to the degree relevant to assessing all potential path-
        ways to receptors.
        3.3.2.3. Receptors. The ICPM documents the selection of the receptor populations. The docu-
        mentation must be realistic and reflect all receptors reasonably expected to be affected by the
        site.
        3.3.2.4. Calculations. The ICPM describes the model used to produce the final risk character-
        izations and demonstrates how the model produced the characterizations for every potential
        combination of contaminant, pathway, and receptor. The ICPM gives reasons for excluding
        specific combinations. The final product or risk assessment must recommend the exclusion of
        sites or make recommendations for remedial action. To do this, the risk assessment must
        include a decision document addressing appropriate levels of remedial action considered with
        an explanation as to why the chosen remedial action was selected. The assessments must allow
        the comparison of different risk based alternatives and leave the decision authority to the
        responsible installation ESOHC or installation commander.
  3.4. Phase 4--Remedial Action.
     3.4.1. Action. To officially document and request remedial action, a RAMP for each remedial
     action project must be developed. Remedial action at a site can range from total cleanup to the
     final risk level to monitoring of a site to confirm its low risk, if cost effective and feasible. All
     USAFE installations must submit their RAMPs to the HQ USAFE Environmental Function who
     will coordinate with the EEA and the appropriate approval authority before any commitment is
     made regarding the extent of remediation to be performed at a contaminated site and prior to
     receiving funding. The installation commander must take prompt action to address remediation of
     environmental contamination originating from DOD operations located on or emanating from
     DOD installations, if one of the three categories was assessed during the risk assessment:
        3.4.1.1. The site presents a known imminent and substantial endangerment to human health
        and safety (KISE).
        3.4.1.2. Cleanup is necessary to maintain operations or protect safety or human health
        (MOSH). After consultation with the EEA, COMUSAFE or a designated approval authority
        may approve additional remediation of environmental contamination if the remediation is
        required to maintain mission operations or protect safety or human health.
        3.4.1.3. Cleanup is required by international agreement (IA). To support the IA justification
        for cleanup, HQ USAFE International Law point of contact (POC) must make a legal determi-
10                                                                 USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


        nation as to whether the requirement for remediation is mandatory and arises from a binding
        international agreement that pertains to US military operating rights in the HN.
     3.4.2. Documentation.
        3.4.2.1. Purpose of a RAMP. The RAMP serves as a decision document that presents the offi-
        cial opinion of the installation commander and bioenvironmental engineer with regards to
        human health risk. The RAMP will provide the necessary information to the USAFE ESOHC
        Cleanup Subcommittee, the appropriate approval authority, and the appropriate EEA with
        regards to any remedial action within the USAFE AOR. RAMP content and format require-
        ments are provided in Attachment 4. The RAMP should contain descriptive and succinct
        information. The RAMP must be prepared as an official record by the ICPM using architect
        and engineer (A&E) support, as needed, and approved and signed by the installation com-
        mander or ESOHC chairman. Additionally, HQ USAFE must ensure that DOD, EUCOM, and
        USAFE policies are not overlooked and that projects will be completed according to the sub-
        mittal plan or design. The HQ USAFE Environmental Function must rely on the individual
        DOD installations to effectively manage their cleanup program, risk assessments, and reme-
        dial action projects, and to provide oversight to ensure contractors complete the remediation
        according to plan or design, intent, regulatory requirement, and standard engineering and
        geo-technical principles. This will involve some degree of field observation and evaluation by
        the ICPMs, which should also be outlined in the RAMP. The RAMP will also provide consis-
        tency among the DOD components in dealings with environmental authorities throughout the
        HN.
        3.4.2.2. Submittal of the RAMP to the HQ USAFE Environmental Function. A RAMP must
        be submitted for each remedial action project to the CCPM by 1 March in the fiscal year (FY)
        preceding the project FY. Once the RAMP is completed and ready for submittal, the ICPM
        must obtain the necessary coordination and approval from the installation commander or
        installation ESOHC chairman. Once approved, the ICPM submits the final RAMP to the HQ
        USAFE Environmental Function accompanied by an official letter signed by the installation
        commander or installation ESOHC chairman, or the installation commander's delegated repre-
        sentative, with a recommended course of action along with the justification.
        3.4.2.3. Approval Process of Remedial Action Projects. In order for an installation to obtain
        approval for any type of remedial action, The CCPM must receive, review, and validate the
        installation’s RAMP for that project. Once received, the RAMP will be presented to the
        USAFE ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee and then coordinated with the EEA and appropriate
        approval authority. Normally, within 60 days, the EEA will review the RAMP, consult with
        CCPM for clarification, and provide a concurrence or non-concurrence with the proposed
        remediation. In the case the EEA nonconcurs with the RAMP, COMUSAFE may appeal to
        EUCOM. Once the RAMP is coordinated, the installation will be informed if the RAMP is
        approved or disapproved. If approved, the funding will be sent after a request for funds has
        been received. Only once the RAMP is approved, will the HQ USAFE Environmental Func-
        tion fund the remedial action.
        3.4.2.4. Completion of Remedial Action. The ICPM must document the proper and successful
        completion of remedial action. Remedial action projects are considered complete when the
        environmental contamination no longer poses a risk to human health and safety, no longer
        poses an impact to mission operations, or meets the standards of the applicable international
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                                             11


          agreement. The ICPM must decide whether the remedial action is complete and document the
          decision. The ICPM must include any relevant information about the remedial action and the
          HN environmental authorities’ position in the decision document. The ICPM must then submit
          that decision document to the installation ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee for review and con-
          currence prior to seeking approval from the installation commander. The installation com-
          mander may delegate final approval authority to the BCE. The installation commander or
          designated authority must then sign a final decision document stating that the remedial action
          is complete. The ICPM must then ensure the installation ESOHC is briefed on the completion
          of the remedial action and transmit the final decision document to the USAFE ESOHC
          Cleanup Subcommittee, through the CCPM. A closure report (for requirements, see 4.2.) must
          be prepared and submitted with the next scheduled cleanup data call.

4. Cleanup Program Filing and Reporting:
   4.1. Purpose. The Installation Cleanup Program File is an installation-specific file system for conti-
   nuity purposes. It documents all available information about the phased cleanup process, including
   discovered sites, their history, site descriptions, HN involvement, risk analyses, site specific RAMPs,
   remedial action, final site dispositions, ACES programming and budgeting actions, policy, laws, and
   other information as appropriate. As mentioned above, site specific RAMPs must be incorporated into
   the overall installation cleanup program file system. The ICPM manages and maintains the file.
   4.2. Reporting Information. A quarterly cleanup program data call requires installations to provide
   updated cleanup information to the HQ USAFE Environmental Function Restoration Element. This
   data call reflects the current installation cleanup program status. The CCPM will review and update
   the report format as required to meet current data tracking needs. The CCPM will review quarterly
   data inputs to assess the progress of the USAFE cleanup program looking for trends and opportunities
   for improvement, and present program status to USAFE's senior leadership as required. Installation
   Environmental Functions must submit their completed data call on a quarterly basis.
      4.2.1. Sites for Tracking Purposes. Contaminated sites off the installation requiring USAFE over-
      sight because of soil and/or groundwater pollution, with the potential to adversely impact USAFE
      operations must be listed as sites for tracking purposes. A BBP reflecting the current status is
      required (e.g. pipeline or if source is on US-owned land or privately owned property). Claims
      from property owners would follow the DOD claims process for international agreements claims
      as directed by the appropriate legal office.

5. HN Authorities Involvement and the Release of Documents:
   5.1. HN Authorities Involvement. Often, remedial action will be contracted through HN design
   agencies that are separate from the HN enforcement authorities. The HN design agencies are not
   authorized to direct remedial action, consult with HN enforcement authorities without USAFE
   involvement, or release documents to HN authorities without installation approval. Although their
   advice is welcome, decisions regarding when and what type of remedial action is required must follow
   procedures as described in this instruction and are made by the installation ESOHC, installation com-
   mander, or ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee in conjunction with HQ USAFE Environmental Function
   Restoration Element. In cases where either local, regional, or higher HN government authorities are
   involved or notified under the cleanup program, advance notice must be given to the HQ USAFE
   Environmental Function and/or the CCPM. The HQ USAFE Environmental Function approves or dis-
12                                                                       USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


     approves the involvement of environmental authorities in accordance with DOD policy and EUCOM
     policy, considering the EEA responsibilities. The HQ USAFE Environmental Function typically per-
     forms intergovernmental coordination in cooperation with the responsible HQ USAFE staff elements,
     including Public Affairs and International Law, EUCOM, the appropriate Office of Defense Coopera-
     tion, and the appropriate EEA, as required. This applies in general, to any contacts with government
     authorities, and specifically to matters regarding agreements, consultations, negotiations or establish-
     ment of standards or any other environmental policy related issue. This does not apply to routine daily
     activities and relations between the ICPM and local environmental authorities.
     5.2. Release of Documents. In coordination with the EEA, the DOD component may furnish docu-
     mentation on contaminated sites to HN government enforcement officials upon request or may autho-
     rize release of the documentation by the appropriate authority. The release of cleanup program
     documents must be based on an official request by HN authorities to the respective installation per-
     sonnel or the HQ USAFE Environmental Function, including, if possible, a written statement of the
     purpose for which the information is being sought. The response to the release request must be coor-
     dinated between the installation Environmental Function and the HQ USAFE Environmental Func-
     tion. The HQ USAFE Environmental Function will then coordinate with HQ USAFE International
     Law, HQ USAFE Public Affairs, and Foreign Disclosure Office (HQ USAFE/ INXX), and other staff
     elements, as well as with the appropriate EEA. Requests from non-governmental authorities such as
     HN citizens, DOD employees, and/or DOD contractors must be processed according to the DOD Reg-
     ulation 5400.7_ Air Force Supplement, DOD Freedom of Information Act Program.

6. Programming and Budgeting:
     6.1. Spill Cleanup Sites. As with other sites, the HQ USAFE Environmental Function will fund each
     phase of the cleanup program once the spill site transitions from response to cleanup action. Funding
     is provided based on validated program requirements identified by USAFE installations. Funds
     requests for fund types other than environmental compliance, e.g., Defense Energy Support Center
     (DESC), must be processed through the HQ USAFE Environmental Function (installation personnel
     should contact their local resources POC for additional information on available funding alternatives
     and proper funds request procedures). As cleanup program requirements are identified, installation
     cleanup program managers must program the cleanup of the site into ACES as a Level 1 cleanup
     project and use the appropriate 535 series Element of Expense Investment Codes (EEIC). If the risk
     assessment determines a risk to MOSH exists, the RAMP must be submitted through the appropriate
     channels. Only once the RAMP is coordinated and approved will the project be funded.
     6.2. Environmental Remediation Sites. Funds for conducting each phase of the program are pro-
     vided by or through the HQ USAFE Environmental Function. As cleanup program requirements are
     identified, installation cleanup program managers must program their requirements in ACES as a
     Level 1 cleanup project, if appropriate, or as a Level 0 Operations and Services (O&S) requirement
     and use the appropriate 535 series EEICs. Resource requirements are forecasted by the installation on
     an annual basis for the next six years.
     6.3. Tracking Funds. Funds used for the USAFE cleanup program must be tracked to ensure accu-
     rate projections of funding requirements, management of current funds, and verification of funds
     spent for each project for each fund type. In addition to tracking programmed and validated projects in
     ACES, data on funds issued, obligated, and expensed must be tracked and documented for each Level
     1 project and O&S requirement.
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                                                13


7. Remediation Impacts on Construction Projects. There are many examples of construction projects
where cleanup of environmental contamination, whether previously known or unknown, becomes an
issue during the project execution phase of new construction or other projects not originally slated as
environmental cleanup projects. This potentially creates major project delays and cost overruns. By con-
sidering the following concepts during the programming phase of construction projects, many obstacles to
project completion can be avoided.
   7.1. Coordination Requirement. Coordination of a proposed project’s site with the ICPM is abso-
   lutely critical. Avoiding known contaminated areas altogether is the best way to prevent resource and
   time delay impacts to the construction project due to cleanup requirements.
   7.2. Be sensitive to funding nuances. The normal work classification for environmental cleanup is
   “repair.” Separating the cleanup from the rest of the project and classifying it as “repair” can protect
   statutory limitations for the Operations and Maintenance (O&M) construction portion of the project.
   The portion of the cleanup that does not directly impact the construction area is funded with environ-
   mental compliance funds. An example is when a contamination plume covers more than just the con-
   struction site. The portion of the cleanup directly associated with the project is programmed as
   "repair," using project O&M funds. For military construction (MILCON) projects, cleaning up within
   the MILCON project site is funded with MILCON funds. Cleaning up the remaining contamination
   becomes part of the installation’s remediation program. However, a special situation may arise involv-
   ing North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) or payment-in-kind funded construction requiring a
   project specific review to determine funding responsibility through the HQ USAFE Environmental
   Function and HQ USAFE International Law.
       7.2.1. If an installation has its own contaminated soil treatment facility, it may be possible to pro-
       gram the treatment of the project-related contaminated material as another phase of the project
       depending on the treatment facility’s capacity and backlog of contaminated soil. Repair funds
       from the project pay for any required storage as well as ultimate treatment of the contaminated soil
       removed as part of the project.

8. Environmental Management of DOD Inactive and Active Ranges Overseas. For the protection of
all DOD personnel and the public from explosives hazards on DOD’s active and inactive ranges located
in the USAFE AOR, follow the procedures specified in DOD Directive 4715.12, Environmental and
Explosives Safety Management on Operational Ranges Outside the United Sates.



                                                DANNY K. GARDNER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                Director, Installations and Mission Support Directorate
14                                                                 USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, Environmental Remediation Policy for DOD Activities Over-
seas, 18 Oct 95
DODI 4715.5, Management of Environmental Compliance at Overseas Installations, 4/22/1996
DODI 4715.8, Environmental Remediation for DOD Activities Overseas, 2/2/1998
DODD 4715.12, Environmental and Explosives Safety Management on Operational Ranges Outside the
United States, 7/12/2004
DOD 5400.7_AFSUP, DOD Freedom of Information act Program, 24 June 2002
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994
AFI 32-7006, Environmental Program in Foreign Countries, 29 April 1994
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports, 14 February 2006
ED 80-2, Environmental Executive Agent Remediation Policy, current edition

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACES—Automated Civil Engineer System
AF—Air Force
ANG—Air National Guard
AOR—Area of Responsibility
BBP—Bullet Background Paper
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
BSE—ACES System Code: Project status when project is submitted for HQ PM review and validation
CCPM—Command Cleanup Program Manager
COMUSAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe Commander
DISCO—Discovery Phase
DOD—Department of Defense
EEA—Environmental Executive Agent
EEIC—Element of Expense Investment Code
ESOHC—Environmental Safety and Occupational Health Council (replaced EPC)
ED—EUCOM Directive
EUCOM—United States European Command
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                    15


FGS—Final Governing Standards
FINPLAN—Financial Plan
FY—Fiscal Year
GIS—Geographical Information System
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
HN—Host Nation
IA—International Agreement
ICPM—Installation Cleanup Program Manager
ID—Identification
KISE—Known Imminent and Substantial Endangerment to Human Health and Safety
MAJCOM—Major Command, e.g., USAFE
MILCON—Military Construction
MNA—Monitored Natural Attenuation
MOB—Main Operating Base
MOSH—Maintain Mission Operations or Protect Safety and/or Human Health
OEBGD—Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
O&S—Operations and Services
PA—Programmed Amount
POC—Point of Contact
POL—Petroleum, Oils and Lubricants
POM—Program Objective Memorandum
PPDA—Potential Pollutant Discharge Area
PRG—ACES System Code: HQ Submitted to Air Staff for review
RAMP—Remedial Action Management Plan
SOW—Statement of Work
US—United States
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFE/CV—Vice Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
USEUCOM (EUCOM)—United States European Command
16                                                                       USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


Terms
Active Site—Any site that has not been excluded or completed. For example, suspected sites, sites under
assessment, and sites under remediation are all considered active sites.
Closed Site—Any site that has been completed or excluded. Sites with monitored natural attenuation in
place for at least 5 years are documented as completed, if the base ESOHC believes sufficient progress
has been achieved (see Attachment 7, A7.5.).
Closure Percentage—A base’s closure percentage is calculated by dividing the number of closed sites by
the total number of sites in the program.
Competent Risk Assessor—A person who, by way of training and/or experience, is knowledgeable of
applicable standards, is capable of identifying hazardous or dangerous conditions relating to the specific
site, and is designated by the employer. Some standards may add additional specific requirements, which
must be met by the competent person.
Completed Site—A contaminated site for which remedial action has been taken under Phase 4 of the
Cleanup Program (Remedial Action) and the final risk and cleanup level have been reached. The
installation ESOHC recommends completion and the HQ USAFE ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee makes
a final decision as to whether or not a remedial action is satisfactory in accordance with subject guidance
and the applicable DOD and EUCOM policy.
Confirmed Contaminated Site—A site where remedial action is being recommended by the installation
ESOHC or installation commander in accordance with subject guidance.
Contaminated Site—This is a specific area of land or water polluted by POL or hazardous substances,
where:
     a. the contamination was caused by past, terminated, or present but uncontrolled or uncontained
        DOD activities,
     b. the source of contamination is an identified point source (defined area, or facility), and
     c. the installation ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee or installation commander determined that the
        polluted site poses a threat to human health and safety, or to current operations, and must undergo
        a risk assessment.
Contamination—The presence of contaminants in the environment or in mixtures with the
environmental media (soil, water, or air), in concentrations higher than those generally recognized to be a
de minimus threat to human health or the environment. Concentration levels of substances considered to
be a threat to human health or the environment will be identified from applicable standards on a
case-by-case basis through the USAFE ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee. HN legislation or the local
jurisdiction in which the installation is located, or AF- and USAFE-imposed standards could be a source
of information to establish standards.
Environment—Includes water, air, and land and the interrelationships existing among and between
water, air, and land and all living things.
Excluded—A suspected contaminated site that is not classified as a contaminated site during Phase 2 of
the Cleanup Program (Validation), or a contaminated site that is identified in Phase 3 of the Cleanup
Program (Risk Assessment) as requiring no remediation because the site poses no threat to human health,
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                                              17


failure to remedy the site does not pose a threat to current operations, or USAFE organizations are not
authorized to remedy contamination at the site.
Final Governing Standards—Country-specific environmental compliance requirements with which
DOD installations in overseas locations must comply. In the absence of country-specific FGS, DOD
installations must comply with the OEBGD.
Final Risk Level—A cleanup standard established by the HQ USAFE ESOHC or through negotiations
with HN environmental authorities. Any negotiations on cleanup standards have to be managed and
approved by HQ USAFE International Law and the HQ USAFE Environmental Function.
Geographically Separated Unit—Part of a military organization separated geographically from its
parent military organization.
Hazardous Substance (including POL Products)—Any material capable of posing an unreasonable
risk to human health and safety or the environment if released to the environment. This includes material
that qualifies as either a hazardous material or hazardous waste under the applicable country-specific FGS
or (in countries where there are no FGS) the OEBGD. POL products refers to petroleum, oils and
lubricants, including mogas and hydraulic oils. They consist of hydrocarbons and different fuel additives,
where the additives often present the real risk to soil or groundwater resources and might qualify as a
hazardous substance.
Installation—A base, camp, post, station, yard, center, or other activity (e.g., a geographically separated
unit) under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of a Military Department that is located outside the United
States and outside any territory, commonwealth, or possession of the United States.
Intergovernmental Coordination Process—Process identifying the appropriate entities required to be
involved during negotiations between installation representatives and the local and national government
authorities regarding remediation of contaminated sites. Country specific requirements are detailed in the
appendices to EUCOM Directive 80-2, Environmental Executive Agent Remediation Policy.
Main Operating Base—A DOD installation with essential buildings and facilities provided for total
organization and intermediate maintenance capability existing for assigned weapon systems. The
intermediate maintenance capabilities may be expanded to support specific weapon systems deployed to
the MOB.
Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document—Implementation guidance, procedures, and
criteria for environmental compliance at DOD installations in overseas locations. The OEBGD is used by
the EEAs to develop FGS and, in the case where no county-specific FGS exist, provides the compliance
criteria for use by the DOD installations.
Pathways—Route a pollutant travels or might travel to move from its source to a receptor.
Pollutant, Contaminant, and Contamination Pollutant—A substance present in greater than natural
concentration as a result of human activity that has a net detrimental effect upon its environment or upon
something of value in that environment, causes deviations from the normal composition of an
environment or an environmental media (soil, water, or air), or may be a risk to human health or DOD
operations.
Potential Pollutant Discharge Areas—DOD-controlled areas with facilities, structures, and/or
permanent or temporary operations, including compliance sites, where the existing, available potential of
hazardous material or hazardous substances could be accidentally released into surface waters, soil, or
18                                                                       USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


groundwater. A site is not considered a suspected contaminated site as long as no pollution or
contamination is suspected. Sources of air emissions will not be considered under subject guidance as
long as no surface pollution results from discharges or releases from those sources of air emissions.
Reactivated Site—A site that was previously closed but changing conditions (i.e. more stringent laws,
new contamination, etc) make it necessary to re-examine the contaminant levels and perhaps take further
remedial action. Reactivated sites shall retain the original contaminated site identification (ID) number
issued by the base and the status of the site changes from closed to open. The reactivation decision,
including date and reason, must be documented in the remarks column of the contaminated sites list.
Receptors—Human or ecological entities likely to be exposed to the contaminants identified.
Remedial Action Management Plans—Document serving as a decision document presenting the
official opinion of the installation commander and bioenvironmental engineer with regard to human
health risk. The project or site specific RAMP summarizes the results of the site risk assessment and
recommends a method of remedial action to cleanup the site. RAMPs must be submitted to the USAFE
ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee for coordination with the proper approval authorities, to include the
EEA, prior to receiving funds. If, for whatever reason, funds have already been sent to the installation, the
installation must obtain the appropriate approval of the RAMP prior to obligating the funds.
Remediation or Remedial Action—Actions taken at a contaminated site to abate the effects of
environmental contamination on human health and safety, and/or current operations. Remediation at a site
can range from total cleanup (abatement to the final risk level) to passive monitoring of a site.
Sites Under Remedial Action—Sites where pollution of soil or groundwater requires remedial design
and/or remedial action.
Sites Under Risk Assessment—Sites validated by the installation ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee or
installation commander and prioritized for further assessment regardless if they have been funded or not.
Site Validation and Validation Team—The installation ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee validates
“suspected and contaminated sites” according to subject USAFE guidance. The installation ESOHC
Cleanup Subcommittee is the Installation Validation Team.
Spill or Release—A “release,” “spill,” or “spillage” as used in subject guidance, is a release of hazardous
substance into the environment regardless of the cause. A release or spill is an acute occurrence resulting
from current operations. The general policy for spill prevention and response planning is defined in
Chapter 18 of each country-specific FGS and the OEBGD, which implements DODI 4715.5,
Management of Environmental compliance at Overseas Locations and applies in countries where there
are no FGS. The USAFE Spill Prevention and Response Policy provides additional guidance.
Suspected Contaminated Site—Any specific area of land or water identified during Phase 1 of the
Cleanup Program as possibly being contaminated (determined by documentation or observation) by POL
or hazardous substances from DOD activities and not classified as being a contaminated or excluded site
under Phase 2 (Validation) or Phase 3 (Risk Assessment) of the cleanup program.
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                           19


                                        Attachment 2

                         USAFE CLEANUP PROGRAM OVERVIEW

A2.1. Overview. The following graphic displays the USAFE Cleanup Program Overview.

Figure A2.1. USAFE Cleanup Program Overview.
20                                                                           USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


                                               Attachment 3

                           HQ USAFE THREAT ASSESSMENT WORKSHEET

A3.1. Site Validation. During Phase 2 Validation, the installation ESOHC Cleanup Subcommittee must
conduct site validations for all sites at their installation(s) suspected of being contaminated and posing an
unacceptable risk to human health or the overall operations at the installation.

A3.2. Assessment Tool. The validation team members may use this USAFE Threat Assessment Work-
sheet or another tool deemed appropriate by the installation bioenvironmental engineers to help assess
and document the potential threat from the contaminated site.

Table A3.1. Threat Assessment Worksheet.

         Site:

       Number:

         Date:

      SOURCE -          Contaminants   Surrounding     Pathway Release        Endangered         Threat
      PATHWAY            Identified    Medium Type/       Potential            Receptors
     RECEPTOR?                          Character
       Medium          N=None                         -Not possible         -No receptors      -No threat
     Contaminated      P=Potential                    -To surrounding
                       K=Known                        medium                -Human health/     -Low
                                                      - Pollution present   safety
                                                                                               -Potential
                                                                            -Water supply
                                                                            zones              -Imminent

                                                                            -Groundwater       -Unknown

                                                                            -Food chain

                                                                            -Other (specify)
         Air
     - Exposures
       possible?
 - To which receptor
     Surface Water
        - Toxicity
         - Spread
     - Accumulation
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                                      21


   SOURCE -            Contaminants      Surrounding    Pathway Release   Endangered   Threat
   PATHWAY              Identified       Medium Type/      Potential       Receptors
  RECEPTOR?                               Character
       Topsoil
      - Toxicity
   - Permeability
    - Spread out
      character
- Retention capacity
   Subsoil/Rock
      - Toxicity
   - Permeability
    - Spread out
      character
- Retention capacity
   Groundwater
     - Toxicity
 - Spread mobility
  - Accumulation
   - Aquifer type

                                                                             YES        NO

Substantial Endangerment to Human Health & Safety

Required to Sustain Current Operations

IAW International Agreement

Imminent Threat (Immediate Action Required)
22                                                                       USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


                                               Attachment 4

                REMEDIAL ACTION MANAGEMENT PLAN (RAMP) CRITERIA

A4.1. Guidelines for Developing a RAMP. A RAMP is the USAFE document intended to comply with
the "Decision Document" requirement of EUCOM Directive 80-2. A RAMP must be generated and pro-
cessed prior to initiating a remedial action. Proper coordination ensures the desired level of consistency of
DOD remedial actions throughout the EUCOM theater, matching the appropriate remedial action to the
specific situation that must be addressed. The RAMP format follows the format required by ED 80-2, but
includes some USAFE-specific information. The standardized format is presented below with clarifica-
tion provided as necessary.

A4.2. Required RAMP Format:
     A4.2.1. Unique Title/Number for Tracking. The title should clearly identify the purpose of the
     document, the installation, the site designation (consistent with designation provided in quarterly data
     calls), and the associated project number for the remedial action (if contracted). A suggested format
     would be:
Remedial Action Management Plan (RAMP) for
<Installation name>, <country>
USAFE Site: <site designation>
Project number: <ACES project number>
1. Project Description:
a. Location - Describe location on the installation with respect to facility numbers, activity, or other
appropriate means of orientation.
b. Brief history of site - Briefly describe the contamination found, cause of the contamination, when the
contamination occurred, and former use and current operations at the site.
c. Source of contaminants and extent - Provide available details on the lateral and vertical dispersement
of contamination and any remaining sources, e.g., buried drums.
d. Contaminants of concern - Identify the specific contaminants required to be addressed by the reme-
dial project, i.e., contaminants exceeding the acceptable levels at the site. Identify any other contaminants
if they may effect or be affected by the remediation effort.
        e. Investigations performed and outcome - Summarize each relevant investigation and the asso-
ciated results.
        f. Other pertinent information - Provide additional information that may influence the need for
a specific type of remedial action or implementation schedule, e.g., site is in a groundwater protection
zone, contamination has or is expected to migrate off the installation, etc.
        g. Applicability - Verify the situation meets the three criteria identified below.
i Action not incidental to construction (i.e., minimal soil contamination within construction footprint)
ii Contamination is US caused
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                                                  23


iii Action not covered under FGS (i.e., spill response)
2. Justification. Identify the most appropriate of the three specific justifications listed below as the justi-
fication supporting the site remediation effort. This same justification should also be stated in the cover
letter and/or forwarding memo used to transmit the RAMP.
a. KISE - "Prompt action must be taken to remediate contamination at <the site> that presents known
imminent and substantial endangerments to human health and safety due to environmental contamination
caused by DOD operations located on or emanating from a DOD installation." This justification requires
a signed statement from the installation medical authority, i.e., the bioenvironmental engineer, supporting
the KISE statement.
        b. MOSH - “The <installation commander or installation ESOHC chairman> has determined that
remedial action measures at <the site> are required to maintain operations or to protect human health and
safety at the installation or off the installation.” This justification requires a signed statement from the
installation commander or designated representative supporting operational and/or health and safety
necessity.
        c. International Agreement - “The <installation commander or other identified official> has
determined that funding environmental remediation of <the site> is required by the provisions of an appli-
cable international agreement.” This justification requires a signed statement from USAFE or installation
legal counsel supporting the legal necessity.
3. Time Constraints. Provide information on any HN imposed programming concerns including time-
lines and proposed start date.
4. Risk Assessment Executive Summary:
          a. Contaminants of concern - Identify contaminants required to be addressed by the remedial
action.
          b. Pathways - Identify all potential routes from the contaminated site to receptors.
      c. Receptors - Identify human individual(s) potentially subject to the hazard of exposure from the
contaminants of concern.
      d. Methodology - Can be limited to one sentence which states the source of the methodology for
example, Bundesbodenschutzgesetz, EPA, or Dutch protocol.
       e. Conclusion including impacts to human health and safety - Include adequate background
information to justify health and safety necessity if the commander is using MOSH to justify the remedi-
ation.
5. Mission impacts and HN considerations - Statement including adequate background information to
explain the operational situation if the commander is using MOSH to justify the remediation and any con-
sultations with the HN.
6. Proposed cleanup goals (may be in tabular format). Must include at a minimum:
          a. Contaminant/maximum contaminant concentration encountered,
          b. Source of established cleanup goal (regulatory authorities or HN law), and
          c. Required clean-up level.
24                                                                           USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


7. Recommended remediation method:
        a. Remediation method selected - Explain why this method was chosen and the project timeline
before the cleanup goal is reached.
       b. Other remediation methods considered - Include reason(s) for non-selection of alternative
remediation methods.
8. Alternatives to remediation considered - Discuss any alternatives to remedial action that were con-
sidered (such as relocation of the operation, change in mission, etc). Summarize each and include a time-
line, if appropriate.
9. Risk management considerations. Include relevant discussion on issues concerning:
          a. Health and safety,
          b. economics,
          c. technical,
          d. operations,
          e. politics,
f. information management plans/risk communication proposals, and
          g extent of contamination including possible migration off-site (if data available).
APPENDICES: Below are suggested appendices to the RAMP document
Appendix A: Pertinent Correspondence (if Applicable)
          a. Signed letters supporting the selected justification (if available), reference para. 2.
                  i. Medical authority opinion for KISE justification,
                  ii. Installation commander statement of operational necessity or health and safety need and
why, or
              iii. Legal counsel statement that proposed action is required based on an international
agreement and why.
          b. Pertinent HN correspondence.
Appendix B: Figure(s) - Provide any supporting diagrams, photos, cost/budget constraints/numbers, etc.
Appendix C: Cost Estimate for Proposed Remedial Action (optional).

A4.3. Special Procedures for KISE situations. A situation presenting a known imminent and substan-
tial endangerment to human health and safety or mission operations requires immediate attention to avoid
unacceptable impacts. An installation believing the basis of a remediation is KISE must contact the HQ
USAFE Environmental Function by the most appropriate and expeditious means available under the cir-
cumstances. The HQ USAFE Environmental Function will, in turn, consult with the appropriate EEA by
the most appropriate and expeditious means available under the circumstances. The installation must pre-
pare an abbreviated version of the RAMP described above, including the opinion of the DOD medical
authority to generate a formal record supporting the remediation. Remediation beyond KISE will require
a formal RAMP submittal.
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                                                 25


                                              Attachment 5

       USAFE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP PROGRAM GOALS AND OBJECTIVES

A5.1. Purpose: To establish goals for the Environmental Cleanup Program and procedures for tracking
progress toward those goals in accordance with Objective 9 of the AF Environmental Strategic Plan.

A5.2. Applicability and Scope: This policy applies to USAFE Environmental Offices and their associ-
ated cleanup program managers.

A5.3. Goals and Objectives: The success of the cleanup program in USAFE will not be measured solely
by the number of projects executed or by the amount of money spent. The programs success will ulti-
mately be measured by its ability to clean contaminated sites. Therefore, it is important to establish clear
goals steering the program toward a desired end state and then measure progress along the way. The fol-
lowing goals will serve as our targets.
   A5.3.1. Initiate risk assessment of all suspected sites within two years of discovery.
   A5.3.2. Close 80% of all sites by 2008.
   A5.3.3. Close 90% of all sites by 2012.
   A5.3.4. Close 98% of all sites by 2016.
   A5.3.5. Ensure that within 18 months of discovering a new suspected site or re-scoping an existing
   contaminated site, either the site is formally excluded or risk assessment actions have been completed.
   A5.3.6. For each active site, ensure remedial action is initiated within 3 years of completing the risk
   assessment for the site.

A5.4. Assumptions: The HQ USAFE Environmental Function expects to close 40-45 sites per year,
while initially adding 30-40 sites per year through spills and new site discoveries. Over time, improved
spill prevention measures and a reduction in new land acquisitions will reduce the expected rate to 7-10
per year. Some sites are so complex they will require more than 20 years to meet acceptable contaminant
levels, so closing them by 2016 is unrealistic.

A5.5. Tracking progress: In order to measure progress toward these targets, each ICPM must submit the
following information to CCPM on a quarterly basis.
   A5.5.1. Quarterly updates (due 15 Jan, 15 Apr, 15 Jul, 15 Oct).
       A5.5.1.1. An updated contaminated sites list using the current data call format.
       A5.5.1.2. Explanations for all new sites added to the program in the last quarter to include site ID,
       site description, and reason for addition (i.e. spill, new discovery, new land acquisition) in the con-
       taminated sites list of the current datacall format.
       A5.5.1.3. Documentation of all ESOHC site closure (exclusion/completion) decisions made in the
       last quarter including a formal site closure report (see Attachment 7).
       A5.5.1.4. Cleanup status chart using the current data call format.
   A5.5.2. Annual updates (due 15 Oct).
26                                                                   USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


       A5.5.2.1. All the same information required for quarterly updates.
       A5.5.2.2. An updated base map in electronic format showing contaminated sites.
       A5.5.2.3. A time-phased plan depicting the actions (e.g. risk assessment, remedial action, etc)
       required to close each active site on the installation(s).

A5.6. Local Measurement. Each Environmental Office shall create a chart similar to the one in the quar-
terly cleanup data call to measure and track progress toward the command goals. This chart will be
reviewed at installation ESOHC, or ESOHC subcommittee meetings. The roll-up chart for the command
will be briefed to USAFE/CV at USAFE ESOHC meetings.
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                                                27


                                              Attachment 6

                ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP PROGRAMMING STANDARDS

A6.1. Purpose. To standardize the process of codifying projects in ACES, thereby improving the bases’
ability to advocate for and receive funding they need to properly execute the environmental cleanup pro-
gram.

A6.2. Applicability and Scope. This policy applies to all Environmental Flights in USAFE that program
restoration projects in ACES.

A6.3. Terms and Definitions:
   A6.3.1. Submitted. A project must be submitted from the base to HQ USAFE via ACES from review
   and validation. An officially submitted project will have a status code of "BSE" in ACES.
   A6.3.2. Validated. Once a base submits a project, the CCPM reviews the project and either validates,
   rejects, or requests more information on the project. A validated project is one that has received initial
   approval from the CCPM, but must still get final approval from the Chief of the HQ USAFE Environ-
   mental Function before being added to the program. Note that the environmental program is not
   always fully funded, so even validated projects may need to compete for funding during the pro-
   grammed year.
   A6.3.3. Programmed. Once a validated project receives approval from the Chief of the HQ USAFE
   Environmental Function, the ACES project status changes to “PRG” and the project is officially
   added to the environmental Program Objective Memorandum (POM) submittal and/or the Financial
   Plan (FINPLAN). If a project does not have a status of “PRG” in the year of execution, it will not
   receive funding.

A6.4. Annual Programming Milestones.
   A6.4.1. POM. The POM is the DOD mechanism for accomplishing long-term budgetary planning.
   The POM review process starts every year in early Nov and the USAFE POM submission is finalized
   in Jan. To be considered in the POM, all projects must be submitted in ACES by 31 Oct. The POM
   does not affect the current FY or the next FY. So project submissions must be limited to those required
   in FY+2 thru FY+8.
   A6.4.2. FINPLAN. The FINPLAN is a statement of intent, completed in Mar of the current FY, which
   describes how the command intends to spend the money it receives in the next FY. Monetary targets
   used in the FINPLAN are derived from the President’s Budget, a result of the POM process. If a base
   wishes to add a project for consideration in the FINPLAN, the project must be submitted in ACES by
   31 Jan and the base must identify a project currently in the funded program that it will forego in order
   to pay for the addition.
   A6.4.3. Remedial Action Management Plans: Bases must complete the EEA consultation process by
   means of a RAMP before any funding will be provided for remedial action.
   A6.4.4. End of Year. Every year there is an opportunity to buy out part of the next year's budget by
   using money that gets redistributed at the end of the fiscal year. In order to be prepared to obligate
   funds quickly at the end of the FY, bases must submit a list of projects they can have under contract
28                                                                       USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


     within 15 days of receiving funds. The list must be submitted to the CCPM by 30 Jun. The projects
     must already be validated and programmed in ACES.

A6.5. Project Titles. Project titles in ACES must begin with an action verb. Acceptable verbs are assess,
study, design, cleanup, or sample. Very limited exceptions will be approved by MAJCOM. After the
action verb, describe the site where the action will take place (e.g. fire training pit) followed by the phase
number. Avoid the use of facility numbers. A single site ID number may be used if a text description of the
site is impractical. If multiple sites will be addressed under a single project, describe the general category
the sites fall under (e.g. tanks, drywells, etc.) or describe the area of the base to be addressed. Be as spe-
cific as possible. Vagueness implies the project is only a placeholder and thus vulnerable to being reduced
or cut.

A6.6. Programmed Amount (PA). Programmed amounts should be constructed upon historical infor-
mation drawn from similar projects executed in the past and be adjusted accordingly to account for cost
changes such as new technologies, more commonly available technologies, and differing site conditions.
For projects addressing multiple sites, assume all the sites will need an assessment. Assume only a per-
centage of the sites will need design and cleanup. A good rule of thumb is 60% will be excluded and 40%
will need cleanup. Document your assumptions in the project description.

A6.7. Project Description. Clearly describe the scope of work and ensure it is consistent with the project
title. Address unusual situations that may prompt questions by reviewers, e.g., if this is the third assess-
ment at a site, provide an explanation why this is the case. This is where site ID numbers and facility num-
bers belong, especially if the project will address multiple sites. Provide a simple breakdown of the
programmed amount to show the major cost elements. Document the assumptions used when developing
the cost estimate. Provide detail on how PA was determined. If elements of the estimate were based on
engineering principles, then state so. If the programmed amount cannot be adequately justified, the
project may not be validated or funded.

A6.8. Project Justification. The FGS is not an adequate justification for a cleanup project. Use the ED
80-2 categories (KISE, MOSH, IA) to justify a cleanup project and explain why your project falls into a
particular category. Assessment projects can be justified by referencing USAFEI 32-7067. This block
should answer the question “What will the impact be if this project is not funded?”

A6.9. Project Remarks: Do not copy the project description and paste it in the remarks block. Project
remarks should be unique information not covered in the description or justification. Explain special HN
considerations, or ties to previous and subsequent phases of work.

A6.10. EEICs: Five-digit EEICs shall be used to clearly identify the type work being performed under a
given project. The approved EEICs for USAFE cleanup are described below.
    A6.10.1. 535 01- Site Discovery.
    A6.10.2. 535 02- Validation.
    A6.10.3. 535 03- Risk Assessment.
    A6.10.4. 535 04- Remedial Design.
    A6.10.5. 535 05- Remedial Action.
    A6.10.6. 535 06- Operations and Services (O&S) Items.
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                                                29


                                              Attachment 7

                   ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP SITE CLOSURE CRITERIA

A7.1. Purpose. To provide a command standard for site closure documentation and reporting.

A7.2. Applicability and Scope. This criteria applies to USAFE cleanup sites closed after Oct 03.

A7.3. Documentation and Reporting of Closure Decision. A formal site closure report must be cre-
ated for each completed or excluded site. Reports must be forwarded to the CCPM at the end of the quar-
ter in which the closure occurred at the same time as the data call (15 Jan, 15 Apr, 15 Jul, and 15 Oct). The
closure report must be in the format shown in Figure A7.1.

A7.4. Monitored Natural Attenuation (MNA). Bases must submit a MNA Plan to the CCPM for all
sites where MNA will be the chosen course of action. The plan must contain:
   A7.4.1. Final target contaminant concentrations.
   A7.4.2. Estimated time needed to reach final targets.
   A7.4.3. Scope of monitoring required.
   A7.4.4. Progress that can be expected within 5 years.

A7.5. Cleanup Target. If the base ESOHC believes sufficient progress has been achieved in the first 5
years of monitoring, the site may be documented as closed although the base may chose to continue mon-
itoring until cleanup targets are reached.
30                                                             USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007


Figure A7.1. USAFE Cleanup Site Closure Report.


            USAFE CLEANUP SITE CLOSURE REPORT



Base Name
Site ID
Site Description
POC Name/DSN Phone


Milestone                                 Date
Phase 1: Discovery
Phase 2: Validation
Phase 3: Risk Assessment Completion
Phase 4:
EEA Consultation Completion
Remedial Design Completion
Remedial Action Start
MNA Start
MNA Completion
Acceptance from responsible host nation
authority (e.g., MOD, State Authority,
Defence Estates)
Remedial Action Completion
Exclusion (if applicable)                         Rationale:


Site Area (square meters)
Soil Type(s)
Contamination Depth (meters bgs)
Remediation Method(s)
USAFEI32-7067 24 JULY 2007                                                      31


Project Number(s)               Cost ($K)
Risk Assessment


Remedial Design


Remedial Action




                                 Media          Initial            Final
                                            Concentration     Concentration
      Contaminants of Concern   Soil GW     (include units)   (include units)
