BY ORDER OF THE                                            HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 52-101

                                                                                  2 JUNE 2011

                                                                                       Chaplain

                                                     USE OF THE USAFA CADET CHAPEL

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/HCX                                               Certified by: HQ USAFA/HCX
Supersedes: USAFAI52-101, 12 March                           (Ch, Lt Col J. Daniel Brantingham)
            2004                                                                        Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 52-1,Chaplain Service,
identifies those eligible to use the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) Cadet Chapel for
weddings, funerals, memorial services, and other religious rites, and sets responsibilities and
procedures for such use. This instruction applies to all USAFA personnel and active duty Air
Force personnel stationed in the local area to include Buckley Air Force Base, CO. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)           Records         Disposition       Schedule      (RDS)       located        at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The major changes to this publication from the previous edition are in paragraphs 1, 2, and 4.
1. General Information. The USAFA Cadet Chaplain Corps facilities exist primarily for the
use of cadets, graduates, and Academy staff and their dependent family members. This USAFA
Instruction (USAFAI) does not pertain to the usage of the 10 ABW/HC facilities. The building
contains five established sanctuaries, one All-faiths room, one Multipurpose room and one Music
room:
   1.1. Sanctuaries:
 2                                                                  USAFAI52-101 2 JUNE 2011


        1.1.1. The Protestant Sanctuary, level 4.
        1.1.2. The Jewish Sanctuary, in the northern section of level 2.
        1.1.3. The Catholic Sanctuary, in the northern section of level 2.
        1.1.4. The Buddhist Sanctuary, in the northwest corner of level 2.
        1.1.5. The Cadet Chapel Falcon Circle, located on the hill above the Visitor’s Center.
     1.2. Additional rooms:
        1.2.1. All-faiths room, located on the southeast corner of level 1.
        1.2.2. Multipurpose room, in the southern section of level 1.
        1.2.3. Music room, in the central section of level 1.
        1.2.4. Multipurpose room, in the southwestern section of level 1.
2. Use of Sanctuaries/Additional Rooms. All worship activities must be led by a clergyperson
or lay-leader approved by and coordinated with the Cadet Wing Chaplain or designee. Each area
is used for worship services and rites of the faith group for which it was created, with the
following exceptions:
     2.1. Ecumenical or Interfaith services may be held in any sanctuary with approval of the
     Cadet Wing Chaplain or designee and in coordination with the faith group leader of the
     respective sanctuary.
     2.2. Additional rooms may be used for worship, Cadet Chaplain Corps music program
     rehearsals, religious education and fellowship activities.
     2.3. Veterans' Associations may request to schedule services of remembrance or memorial
     services for their groups in the USAFA Cadet Chapel, provided that each service is led by a
     chaplain or clergyperson with approval of the Cadet Wing Chaplain or designee, and there is
     coordination with the faith group leader.
     2.4. Individuals eligible for marriage ceremonies, funerals and memorial services (see
     paragraphs 4 and 5) may reserve the appropriate sanctuary with the Cadet Chapel
     Scheduler, subject to its availability. Reservations are based upon a "first-come, first-served"
     system with USAFA cadet graduates having priority.
        2.4.1. The selected sanctuary will not be rendered neutral by removal or alteration of
        religious symbols and sanctuary fixtures, as the religious symbols and fixtures are
        integral to the architecture of the building. If changed in any other manner, the user must
        return the sanctuary to its original condition.
     2.5. All services held at the Cadet Chapel must be religious in nature and be conducted by a
     clergyperson or led by a lay-leader approved by the Cadet Wing Chaplain or designee.
3. Attendance of the General Public at Worship Services.
     3.1. Members of the general public may attend any of the worship services posted on the
     USAFA Cadet Chapel marquee and webpage. All other services are closed to the public.
     Ability to access the base will depend on Force Protection status and visitor cordon hours.
USAFAI52-101 2 JUNE 2011                                                                      3


   3.2. The USAFA Cadet Chapel will be closed to the general public and tours during the
   times of nonpublic Cadet Chaplain Corps services.
   3.3. The USAFA Cadet Chapel will be closed to the general public and to all others not
   directly involved during weddings, funerals, baptisms, christenings, memorial services and
   other rites of a private nature.
4. Persons Eligible to be Married in the USAFA Cadet Chapel.
   4.1. The following persons are authorized to be married in the USAFA Cadet Chapel:
       4.1.1. Graduates of the USAFA, the United States Military Academy, the United States
       Naval Academy, the United States Coast Guard Academy and the United States
       Merchant Marine Academy.
       4.1.2. Active duty personnel currently assigned to the USAFA and active duty Air Force
       personnel stationed in the local area to include Buckley Air Force Base, CO.
       4.1.3. Dependents of active duty personnel currently assigned to the USAFA who hold a
       valid military dependent ID card on the day of the wedding.
       4.1.4. Purple Heart recipients and Silver Star recipients and above.
       4.1.5. ID card holding dependents of service members killed in action.
   4.2. Persons listed above must arrange their wedding ceremony through the Cadet Wing
   Chaplains' Office (HQ USAFA/HCX). Eligible persons may elect a military chaplain or an
   ordained civilian clergyperson to conduct the service. Additionally, a wedding coordinator
   identified by the Cadet Wing Chaplains’ office is required for all weddings, unless
   specifically exempted by the Cadet Wing Chaplain.
       4.2.1. Expenses for the Wedding Coordinator, the civilian clergy and musical support are
       the sole responsibility of the wedding party.
5. Funerals, Memorial Services. Those who are authorized burial in the USAFA Cemetery
(see USAFAI 34-242, Using the USAF Academy Cemetery) are authorized funeral and memorial
services in the USAFA Cadet Chapel, regardless of the actual place of burial.
   5.1. Military chaplains will conduct funerals and memorial services IAW USAFAI 34-242,
   Using the USAF Academy Cemetery, paragraph 6, which states “Normally, chaplains
   assigned to the USAF Academy conduct interment services according to the ecclesiastical
   disciplines of their churches. If the person authorized to direct disposition (PADD) asks, or
   the USAF Academy staff chaplain invites them, civilian clergy may assist in the services.”
6. Other Religious Rites. Persons listed in paragraph 4 may schedule baptisms, christenings,
and other dedications for themselves or their dependents in the USAFA Cadet Chapel, subject to
approval of the respective faith group chaplain.             This scheduling is arranged by
HQ USAFA/HCX.
7. Waivers. Waiver authority for unusual situations rests with the Cadet Wing Chaplain, unless
otherwise directed by the Superintendent.
 4                                                      USAFAI52-101 2 JUNE 2011


8. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

8.1. Prescribed Forms.

No forms are prescribed.

8.2. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                        ROBERT BRUNO, Chaplain, Colonel, USAF
                                        Senior Staff Chaplain
USAFAI52-101 2 JUNE 2011                                          5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Service, 2 October 2006
USAFAI 34-242, Using the USAF Academy Cemetery, 20 October 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PADD—Person authorized to direct disposition
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI—United States Air Force Academy Instruction

Terms
HQ USAFA/HCX—Cadet Wing Chaplains' Office
