BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                          ARMY IN EUROPE REG 550-36/
US AIR FORCES IN EUROPE (USAFE)                              COMUSNAVEUR INSTRUCTION 5840.6C/
                                                                    USAFE INSTRUCTION 51-707
                                                                                         11 MARCH 2004
                                                                        Certified Current 24 January 2011
                                                                                                      Law

                                                        REGULATIONS ON PERSONAL PROPERTY,
                                                       LOCAL CURRENCY, AND MOTOR VEHICLES
                                                               FOR U.S. PERSONNEL IN TURKEY

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAFE/JAI (TSgt Rita K. Philialoha)                                   Certified by: HQ USAFE/JAI
                                                                                      (Lt Col Stephen Irwin)
Supersedes USAREUR Reg 550-36,                                                                    Pages: 15
           COMUSNAVEUR Instruction                                                           Distribution: F
           5840.6C, USAFE Instruction 51-707,
           9 March 2001.

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 51-7, International Law. It establishes prohibi-
tions concerning the disposition of duty-free personal property, and the acquisition and disposition of
local currency except as provided in this instruction. It outlines requirements concerning the registration
of firearms, and licensing of drivers and provides a basis for punitive action under the Uniform Code of
Military Justice (UCMJ) for military personnel or administrative action, to include possible revocation of
all duty-free privileges for military and civilian personnel. This instruction applies to United States Air
Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air National Guard (ANGUS) and personnel according to para-
graph 1.1. Certain provisions of this instruction are punitive. Violations of the specific prohibitions in
paragraphs and related subparagraphs 1.2., 2.1., 2.2., 3.2., 4.1.2., 6.4.1., and 6.6., and paragraph 5. in its
entirety, of this instruction by military personnel may result in prosecution under Article 92(1) and, or
Article 134 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Civilian personnel are subject to disciplin-
ary action (including loss of logistic support privileges) for violations of these paragraphs according to
applicable service regulations on civilian misconduct and adverse administrative actions. Civilians may
also be subject to criminal prosecution by the host nation for violation of host nation laws.” It prescribes
USAFE Form 181, Vehicle Operator's Permit for Turkey; USAFE Form 540, Request for Transfer of
POV; USAFE Form 554, NATO Beyanname; USAFE Form 675, European Exchange Service (EES)
Beyanname (Turkey Only)

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

This instruction supersedes all previous regulations on this topic.
2                                                                       USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004


1. General:
    1.1. Applicability. This instruction applies to all DOD military and civilian personnel, their depen-
    dents, and any other person authorized by the US Forces the privileges of the APO, Army and Air
    Force Exchange Service (AAFES), Navy ship’s store, commissary, Class VI outlet, and currency con-
    version in Turkey. It also applies to those permitted under US-Turkish agreements to import into Tur-
    key personal property free of customs duties. This directive does not apply to personnel assigned to
    US diplomatic and consular offices and their dependents.
    1.2. Conduct of Personal Affairs. Persons subject to this instruction will not engage in any practices
    or methods in the transaction of personal business that may bring discredit upon themselves or the US
    Government. Specifically, they will not:
       1.2.1. Sell personal property by auction or lottery or other undignified means.
       1.2.2. Use their title, position or connections with US Government in disposing of personal prop-
       erty.
       1.2.3. Engage in any business, or profession in Turkey in their own name, in the name of any
       other person, or entity in Turkey, except as may be authorized by the US European Command
       (EUCOM), US Defense Representative Turkey (USDRT) or a designee. Those employed by the
       US forces, its agents, or contractors are excluded from these provisions.

2. Acquisition and Disposal of Personal Property and Customs Control:
    2.1. Persons subject to this instruction will not:
       2.1.1. Sell, mortgage, loan, rent, trade, donate, deliver, or otherwise transfer to any person, or
       entity who does not have duty free import privileges, any item of furniture, household goods, or
       other personal property imported into Turkey duty free until permission of the Turkish Govern-
       ment has been secured and customs duties have been paid. Turkish law generally prohibits the sale
       of property imported into Turkey, except to other persons entitled to duty free import under the
       North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Status of Forces Agreement (NATO SOFA).
       2.1.2. Use their position or privileges, or procure, induce, or solicit other persons to use their posi-
       tion or privileges, to import goods free of customs duty:
           2.1.2.1. With the intent to dispose of such property for financial gain on the part of any person
           or entity.
           2.1.2.2. With the intent to dispose of such property for the benefit of either persons or entities
           not entitled to duty free import privileges.
           2.1.2.3. In excess of any amount reasonably necessary for the personal use of the privilege
           holder and authorized dependents during the privilege holder’s tour of duty. The 1954 NATO
           SOFA Implementing Agreement restricts duty free import of personal property, household
           goods, and unaccompanied baggage to a period of two months before, and six months after the
           arrival of the individual concerned.
       2.1.3. Sell, loan, rent, trade, or donate any items purchased from AAFES, Class VI outlets, Navy
       ship’s stores, commissaries, or other duty free outlets to persons not authorized commissary and
       exchange privileges in Turkey. AAFES and Navy ship’s store items not authorized for sale to per-
USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004                                                                              3


     sons with limited exchange privileges will not be sold, loaned, rented, traded, or donated to such
     persons.
     2.1.4. Purchase property or goods from AAFES, Class VI outlets, Navy ship’s stores, or commis-
     saries, in excess of amounts reasonably necessary for the personal use of the privilege holder and
     that individual’s authorized dependents.
     2.1.5. Obtain from any source, duty free goods with the intent to dispose of such goods to persons,
     or entities not entitled to duty free import privileges.
     2.1.6. Abandon any unserviceable personal property imported into Turkey duty free. Beyanname
     items listed (Attachment 2) on USAFE Form 554, NATO Beyanname, (customs declaration
     form) which are unserviceable, or of no value to the owner may be turned over to Turkish Customs
     and removed from the individual’s Beyanname. Personnel will contact the Customs Liaison Sec-
     tion to initiate removal of Beyanname items.
  2.2. Importation and Disposition of Privately Owned Motor Vehicles (POV).
     2.2.1. The duty free temporary importation of privately owned vehicles into Turkey by persons
     subject to this instruction is permitted solely for the personal use of authorized individuals and
     their dependents, and will be accomplished only according to pertinent armed forces instructions,
     and applicable Turkish laws.
     2.2.2. Contracts to sell, mortgage, transfer, or otherwise dispose of POVs temporary imported into
     Turkey free of customs duty will be accomplished according to this and other applicable military
     instructions and consistent with pertinent Turkish laws. Current Turkish laws prohibit the sale of
     vehicles temporarily imported into Turkey, except to other persons entitled to duty free import
     under the NATO SOFA, or to an agency of the Turkish Government under certain circumstances.
     2.2.3. Subject to the provisions of this instruction, sale and transfer of possession of POVs to per-
     sons who are entitled to temporarily import an automobile free of customs duty, and who have not
     previously done so, may be accomplished at any time, subject to final approval by Turkish author-
     ities. The Customs Liaison Office will be the initial contact point and provide guidance on sale of
     vehicles in Turkey.
     2.2.4. Persons subject to this instruction:
        2.2.4.1. Will not transfer title or possession of POVs to persons not entitled to import a vehicle
        free of customs duty until written approval of the USDRT or a designee is secured, Turkish
        Customs written permission is obtained, and customs duty paid.
        2.2.4.2. Will not, before consummation of sale and payment of Turkish customs duty, loan,
        rent, trade, donate, deliver, or otherwise transfer any privately owned vehicle to persons who
        do not have duty free import privileges.
        2.2.4.3. Will not use, or attempt to use, a power of attorney to accomplish sale and transfer of
        POVs in Turkey.
        2.2.4.4. Must ensure that the vehicle being sold is transferred from the seller’s Beyanname to
        the buyer’s Beyanname before the seller’s departure from Turkey.
        2.2.4.5. Are prohibited from consummating the sale of a vehicle in any manner other than that
        prescribed by the appropriate Customs Liaison Office.
4                                                                    USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004


           2.2.4.6. Who sell a vehicle must clear the registration of the vehicle from their name at the
           local Traffic Bureau. No sale will be considered complete until appropriate action to clear the
           vehicle registration and customs has been accomplished by the seller.
           2.2.4.7. Are prohibited from abandoning any unserviceable POVs imported into Turkey.
           POVs that are unserviceable or unusable and unrepairable after an accident may be turned over
           to Turkish Customs and removed from the individual’s Beyanname. Personnel will contact the
           Customs Liaison Office to initiate removal of Beyanname items.
       2.2.5. For USAFE activities, USAFE Form 540, Request for Transfer of POV, will be used
       when transferring ownership between authorized personnel. USAFE Form 540 will be prepared in
       four copies and turned in to the Customs Liaison Office by seller. Customs Liaison Office will:
           2.2.5.1. Forward original plus one copy to the Office of Defense Cooperation Turkey,
           (ODC-T) in Ankara, Turkey.
           2.2.5.2. Of the remaining two copies, retain one copy in each member’s (buyer’s and seller’s)
           Beyanname file.
       2.2.6. The Government of Turkey does not allow a POV to be transferred from an embassy mem-
       ber’s letter of guarantee or takrir to a NATO Beyanname.
    2.3. Importation and Exportation of Jewelry. Personal jewelry may be imported into Turkey. If the
    value exceeds 15,000 US Dollars, the owner should file a customs declaration upon entry with the
    appropriate customs authorities. When the same jewelry is exported the owner may be required to pro-
    duce the entry customs declaration.
    2.4. Customs Free Gifts to Turkish Charities and Societies. Customs free gifts by US units and
    agencies to Turkish national charities such as the Red Crescent, Association for the Care of Children,
    Association of Disabled Veterans, and to societies established for hygienic, cultural, charitable, or
    social welfare purposes are authorized and encouraged; however, permission must be obtained from
    the Undersecretariat of Customs before presentation of the gift. The Customs Liaison Office will be
    the initial point of contact and will provide appropriate guidance.
    2.5. Commander’s Responsibilities:
       2.5.1. The Commander, 39th Wing (39 WG/CC) is responsible for reviewing annually the provi-
       sions of this instruction. Submit recommended change to HQ USAFE/JAI after coordination with
       other local US service commanders, the US Army Commander in Europe Contact Officer
       (USDRT), and the Chief of the US Diplomatic Mission.
       2.5.2. US military commanders are authorized to issue supplements when considered necessary or
       desirable to disseminate more detailed guidance, or to impose additional restrictions when
       required. They may not issue supplements that will relax the restrictions, or procedures of this
       instruction. Units must coordinate proposed supplements applicable in Turkey with the 39th WG
       Staff Judge Advocate before publication and implementation.
       2.5.3. The obligations of the commander set out in paragraphs 2.5.4.1. through 2.5.4.10. consti-
       tute management obligations. Failure to comply with these management obligations does not cre-
       ate any rights, or benefits in any person subject to administrative or disciplinary proceeding.
       2.5.4. Under the guidance of the ODC-T, other responsible commanders will:
USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004                                                                              5


         2.5.4.1. Establish liaison with local customs officials and enforce customs policies affecting
         persons subject to this instruction.
         2.5.4.2. Establish customs and documentation control procedures with respect to movement
         of persons and material by aircraft and vessel into, or out of their installations when the point
         of departure, or point of first intended landing is outside the national boundaries of Turkey.
         2.5.4.3. Establish a central customs clearing agency to be known as the Customs Liaison
         Office, which will act as a clearinghouse on all matters pertaining to customs transactions.
         2.5.4.4. Establish necessary controls to ensure that items in the Beyanname list (Attachment
         2) purchased in Turkey from AAFES and Navy ship’s stores are added to the individual’s
         USAFE Form 554, and recorded in the central file located in the Customs Liaison Office.
         2.5.4.5. Scrutinize sale or disposition transactions involving highly saleable items and take
         positive action to prevent black market sales.
         2.5.4.6. Take appropriate action against all persons subject to this instruction who violate
         Turkish customs laws and agreements.
         2.5.4.7. When appropriate, withdraw commissary, AAFES and related privileges, and decline
         to ship household goods until customs and related discrepancies are resolved.
         2.5.4.8. Keep all personnel advised of the pertinent Turkish laws and instructions with regard
         to importation and exportation of personal property.
         2.5.4.9. Inform personnel visiting other countries of the customs procedures in effect in those
         countries and Turkey.
         2.5.4.10. Ensure that their personnel have read and studied this instruction, also require indi-
         viduals to sign a memorandum acknowledging understanding of its provisions before delivery
         of household goods and issuance of AAFES privileges.
  2.6. Individual and Customs Liaison Section Responsibilities. All persons subject to this instruc-
  tion will:
     2.6.1. Immediately upon arrival report to the Customs Liaison Office to initiate Beyanname
     paperwork. Personnel will ensure property listed in Appendix 1 is placed on their individual Bey-
     anname. Forms to use:
         2.6.1.1. For USAFE activities, Customs Liaison Office will use USAFE Form 554, for each
         shipment (household goods or unaccompanied baggage). USAFE Form 554 will be prepared
         in five copies and submitted to the local Turkish Customs Office.
         2.6.1.2. After approval is granted, the Turkish Customs Office will return three copies to
         retain in the member’s folder.
     2.6.2. Within 30 days of receipt, report to the Customs Liaison Office all items of property of the
     categories listed in Attachment 2 which have been obtained from AAFES, Navy ship’s stores, rod
     and gun clubs, audio clubs and similar activities, and from Defense Reutilization and Marketing
     Office (DRMO), or purchased from other US personnel. Personnel will ensure such property is
     placed on their individual Beyanname.
         2.6.2.1. For USAFE activities, Customs Liaison Office will use USAFE Form 675, European
         Exchange Service (EES) Beyanname, for those transactions. Prepare USAFE Form 675 in
6                                                                    USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004


          four copies and provide to the local Turkish Customs Office.
          2.6.2.2. After approval is granted, the Turkish Customs Office will return three copies to be
          retained in the member’s folder.
       2.6.3. Within a reasonable period of time, AAFES officials must report all sales of Beyanname
       items to authorized purchasers to the Customs Liaison Office.
          2.6.3.1. Customs Liaison Office will ensure that Beyanname items sold to other authorized
          personnel are deleted from the seller’s Beyanname and added to the buyer’s Beyanname.
          2.6.3.2. The Customs Liaison Office will ensure that all transactions listed in paragraph 2.6.3.
          above are properly reported to local customs authorities and recorded in the member’s (buyer
          and seller) Beyanname file.
       2.6.4. Upon discovery of the loss, theft, or destruction of Beyanname items, report immediately to
       the US security forces and the Turkish security/military police, to include the local area Jandarma.
       Ensure such events are recorded by the above authorities. Persons are encouraged to obtain private
       insurance for loss, damage, and destruction of household goods and personal property.

3. Currency Control:
    3.1. Importation and Exportation of Turkish Lira:
       3.1.1. There is no limit on the amount of money and individual may hand-carry into Turkey. An
       individual leaving Turkey may only export 10,000 US Dollars (or equivalent Turkish Liras (TL)
       or other foreign currency). However, if an individual declared the money upon entering Turkey,
       then any amount over 10,000 US Dollar may be taken out of the country freely. There is no limit
       on the amount of TL or foreign currencies imported into or exported out of Turkey through banks.
    3.2. Use or Possession of Turkish and United States Currency:
       3.2.1. Persons subject to this instruction will not:
          3.2.1.1. Make payments in dollars, dollar instruments, or any other foreign currency outside
          of Turkey in the name of, or on behalf of, persons domiciled or ordinarily resident in Turkey,
          or legal entities of Turkey, except as approved by the ODC-T or its designee.
          3.2.1.2. Sell or exchange Turkish Lira for dollars or dollar instruments unless:
              3.2.1.2.1. Conversion is made of up to the equivalent of one month’s net pay in Turkish
              Lira to dollars upon presentation of permanent change of station (PCS) or temporary duty
              (TDY) orders to a station outside Turkey to any financial services office (FSO) in Turkey.
              3.2.1.2.2. Conversion is made according to applicable service instructions and directives.
       3.2.2. FSO may repurchase foreign currency from individuals in exchange for US Dollars prior to
       their departure on home leave or after termination of their foreign assignment. In providing this
       service, the FSO shall ensure:
          3.2.2.1. The individual presenting such currency shall submit a written application to the com-
          mander for approval of the repurchase where the amount of foreign currency exceeds the indi-
          vidual’s salary and allowances for two biweekly pay periods.
          3.2.2.2. The repurchase complies with applicable service instructions and directives.
USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004                                                                                 7


4. Exportation of Items Purchased on the Turkish Economy:
   4.1. Exportation by Personnel Stationed in Turkey:
      4.1.1. The following restrictions apply to the exportation of personal property:
         4.1.1.1. There is no limitation on the quantity or value of Turkish origin goods that may be
         exported out of the country by military and civilian personnel. However, upon purchase of any
         major or high-value goods of domestic or foreign origin in Turkey, a commercial invoice
         should be obtained from the seller and be available to present to the local Turkish Customs
         office upon request.
         4.1.1.2. If the value of any jewelry purchased in Turkey exceeds 15,000 US Dollars, a com-
         mercial invoice should be obtained from the seller and presented to the local Turkish Custom
         office upon request.
      4.1.2. The exportation of antiquities is prohibited. Personnel who purchase Turkish rugs and other
      goods that could be considered antique by customs officials should consult the local Ministry of
      Culture museum and obtain a written export report. Although many storekeepers will supply a cer-
      tificate stating that an item is not an antique, this document will not necessarily preclude prosecu-
      tion under the law. Personnel should be wary of any article that is obviously old as the purchase of
      antiques may result in criminal prosecution and confiscation of the item. The law covers goods of
      any description.
   4.2. Exportation by Visitors and Persons on Temporary Duty (TDY) to Turkey:
      4.2.1. Turkish laws permit foreign resident travelers to export Turkish goods as long as the quan-
      tities are reasonable and do not give the appearance the visitors or TDY personnel are engaged in
      a commercial activity.

5. Control of Firearms and Other Weapons:
   5.1. Control of Weapons:
      5.1.1. The possession and use of weapons, particularly firearms, is a subject of great sensitivity to
      both the United States and Turkish Governments. Personnel who import, acquire a firearm, or pos-
      sess ammunition in Turkey must ensure that the requirements of both governments are satisfied.
      Turkish law prohibits the importation of firearms such as pistols and hunting rifles. Ungrooved
      hunting rifles such as shotguns and their ammunition are allowed though controlled. Express per-
      mission of the Ministry of Interior is required to import subject shotguns and ammunition. Base
      Customs Liaison Offices outside of Turkey and/or Customs Liaison Offices in Turkey are the ini-
      tial points of contact and will assist personnel desiring to import allowable firearms and ammuni-
      tion into Turkey.
      5.1.2. Members of the US Forces have the right to possess and carry firearms for official duty.
      While this right extends outside the military installation, as a matter of policy, security or military
      police, couriers or other military personnel outside the limits of military installations will not nor-
      mally carry arms. When armed escort is required, arrangements will be made between the host
      country and US authorities to provide the necessary protection. In special cases where US person-
      nel are required to be armed, the US component commander concerned will as prescribed in perti-
      nent directives issue the use of firearms. Such directives will be coordinated with USDRT and the
      American Embassy before implementation. Commanders will ensure that such personnel are
8                                                                      USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004


       familiar with the firearms with which they are armed, and that they fully understand the require-
       ments and provisions of the directive requiring the carrying of firearms.
    5.2. Shipment and Registration of Firearms. Personnel desiring to ship allowable firearms into or
    out of Turkey to the CONUS must contact the area security forces or military police office and the
    transportation office. Detailed information on registration and shipment is available in the respective
    offices. These agencies have requirements that must be satisfied before firearms or ammunition may
    be shipped and registered.
    5.3. Rod and Gun Clubs. Rod and gun clubs and similar organizations officially approved or sanc-
    tioned by an appropriate commander may, as single entities, purchase and acquire foreign and/or
    Turkish made shotguns, parts and ammunition with the permission of Turkish General Staff (TGS).
    Turkish law prohibits such clubs or organizations from selling foreign made firearms to their mem-
    bers.
    5.4. Individual Responsibility. All persons subject to this instruction will:
       5.4.1. Register all firearms within 5 days after acquisition or arrival in Turkey with the security or
       military police office.
       5.4.2. Report the loss or theft of a firearm to the nearest security or military police office.
    5.5. Withdrawal of Firearms Registration. Commanders will withdraw individual’s AF Form
    1314, Firearms Registration, when valid doubt as to the holder’s reliability has been established.
    The commander will retain a withdrawn registration certificate until:
       5.5.1. The weapon is disposed of by sale, barter, gift, or other transfer to an authorized individual.
       5.5.2. The weapon is shipped or removed from the country.
       5.5.3. The registration is restored to the owner by the commander or by higher authority.
    5.6. Restrictions and Limitations. In addition to compliance with applicable service directives (see
    paragraph 2.4.2.), persons subject to this instruction will not:
       5.6.1. Possess and (or) use fully automatic weapons, except as authorized by instruction in con-
       nection with official duties.
       5.6.2. Sell, rent, barter, give (as a gift), or otherwise transfer possession of a shotgun to another
       person, except on a proper transfer of title to a person authorized duty free import privileges.
       When a privately owned and registered shotgun is sold, given, or transferred to another person, the
       recipient will present the bill of sale, or other evidence of transfer with the new owner’s applica-
       tion, AF Form 1314, for registration of the shotgun. Transfers will be appropriately annotated on
       the corresponding USAFE Form 554.
       5.6.3. Sell, rent, barter, give (as a gift), or otherwise transfer possession of any unregistered or
       registered firearms, except shotguns, to any person or entity.
       5.6.4. Lend or borrow privately owned firearms, except for hunting or sporting purpose. Persons
       in possession of a borrowed firearm will carry with them a copy of the weapon's original AF Form
       1314.
       5.6.5. Loan firearms to persons or entities who do not have duty free import privileges.
USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004                                                                             9


      5.6.6. Possess an unregistered privately owned firearm except while traveling to the office of reg-
      istration, or while in possession of AF Form 1314.
      5.6.7. Possess any of the following weapons unless required to do so in the performance of offi-
      cial duty:
          5.6.7.1. Switchblade knives, daggers, sword canes, swords, bayonets, or grooved knives.
          5.6.7.2. Blackjacks, billies, brass knuckles, sandbags, or other similar weapons.
          5.6.7.3. Shooting pens (fountain pen or automatic pencil style) capable of discharging any
          chemical agent; for example, mace.
      5.6.8. Conceal any of the following items on the person unless required to do so in the perfor-
      mance of official duty:
          5.6.8.1. Straight razor.
          5.6.8.2. Knives with blades longer than 3 inches.
          5.6.8.3. Air rifles and air pistols.
          5.6.8.4. Blank cartridge pistols.
          5.6.8.5. Any other dangerous weapon (or any weapon that could be used in a manner to pro-
          duce death or serious bodily injury).
   5.7. Carrying and Use of Privately Owned Registered Firearms. Persons subject to this instruc-
   tion will not:
      5.7.1. Transport weapons that are loaded or contain a loaded clip or magazine.
      5.7.2. Carry firearms or ammunition except while:
          5.7.2.1. Hunting, with the appropriate host nation and or military documentation.
          5.7.2.2. Participating in officially sanctioned sporting events or arms matches.
          5.7.2.3. Traveling to or from:
              5.7.2.3.1. Lawful sporting events or arms matches, for participation in such events or
              matches.
              5.7.2.3.2. Authorized firing ranges or other areas where target practice or weapon adjust-
              ment is permitted, and to and from properly sanctioned activities of rod and gun clubs.
              5.7.2.3.3. Repair shops or the office of registration.
          5.7.2.4. Traveling officially to or from temporary, or permanent duty stations, unless specifi-
          cally prohibited by appropriate orders. However, firearms and ammunition may be carried or
          transported outside US areas of responsibility only in conformity with applicable laws and
          regulations of Turkey.

6. Operation and Registration of Privately Owned Vehicles (POV):
   6.1. General:
      6.1.1. Unless otherwise provided in this directive, or by international agreement, all persons sub-
      ject to this directive will comply with Turkish traffic laws, ordinances and regulations.
10                                                                    USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004


        6.1.2. Commanders will establish procedures for registering all POVs (to include motorcycles and
        mopeds) and issue the appropriate passes to indicate the POV has been registered with the chief of
        security forces.
        6.1.3. Commanders will ensure that a representative from the security forces is present during
        each initial POV inspection by Turkish authorities.
        6.1.4. Pursuant to applicable service instructions and directives, Commanders, or their designees,
        are authorized to conduct spot inspections of vehicles in order to enforce traffic instructions.
     6.2. POV Appearance and Condition:
        6.2.1. All POVs should, whenever possible be inconspicuous and unostentatious. Any special
        marking which particularly associate POVs with US owners should likewise be removed.
        6.2.2. Where practicable, US official POVs will be inconspicuously painted and identified.
        6.2.3. POVs will be in the following condition:
           6.2.3.1. Vehicle surface must be clean and free of rust.
           6.2.3.2. Windows must be able to withstand shock and vibrations, clear (no tint), and free of
           cracks, stickers, signs, or advertisements.
           6.2.3.3. Wipers, lights, and brakes must all be operational, in good working order, and prop-
           erly adjusted.
           6.2.3.4. Muffler must prevent excessive noise and not allow gas fumes inside the vehicle, and
           the tail pipe must point straight out (not toward ground) past the rear of the vehicle.
           6.2.3.5. Engine block must have a number.
           6.2.3.6. Mud flaps must be installed on all trucks, van, buses, and jeeps.
           6.2.3.7. Except for motorcycles and mopeds, all POVs will be equipped with seat belts. See
           AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision.
     6.3. Procedures and Requirements for Registration by Persons Stationed in Turkey:
        6.3.1. The owner will register the POV with the local Turkish Traffic Bureau . Security Forces
        Pass and ID will assist the owner in registering the POV. The POV must be registered within 90
        days of the date of the Beyanname. Failure to do so may result in fines and/or impounding of the
        POV by Turkish authorities, and, or suspension of installation driving privileges.
        6.3.2. To register the POV, the owner must provide the following:
           6.3.2.1. SFOXI FM-30 (14 Mar 00), Tax Exemption Form approved by the Turkish General
           Staff.
           6.3.2.2. Insurance policy (see paragraph 6.4. below).
           6.3.2.3. USAFE Form 554, Customs declaration form (Beyanname).
           6.3.2.4. Valid stateside driver’s license and USAFE Form 181, Vehicle Operator’s Permit For
           Turkey, or alternatively, an International Driver’s license.
           6.3.2.5. Turkish Lira to pay the registration fees.
USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004                                                                              11


     6.3.3. In addition, Turkish law requires an inspection (safety and emissions) of the POV. The POV
     must meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 6.2.1.3 - 6.2.3.7 and as follows:
        6.3.3.1. Vehicle color must match that listed on the Beyanname.
        6.3.3.2. Engine block number must be legible to the inspector. (Note: If the engine block does
        not have a number and/or the engine does not appear on the Beyanname, contact the Security
        Forces for assistance in obtaining a number.)
        6.3.3.3. Required safety equipment, to include first aid kit, fire extinguisher, tow rope, two tri-
        angular reflectors, spare tire, jack, lug wrench, and flashlight.
     6.3.4. For a car, the safety inspection is valid for two years. For a van, truck, or motorcycle, the
     safety inspection is valid for one year. The emissions test is valid for one year for all POVs.
     6.3.5. In order to register motorcycles and mopeds, Commanders may require the owners/opera-
     tors to successfully complete a motorcycle rider course and/or other applicable riding and skills
     courses.
  6.4. Insurance Requirements for Persons Stationed in Turkey:
     6.4.1. Owners of POVs must maintain at least the minimum personal liability and property dam-
     age insurance required under Turkish law. However, personnel are encouraged to obtain sufficient
     coverage for their own protection.
     6.4.2. Insurance may be obtained from local companies. Selection of insurance companies is an
     individual responsibility.
     6.4.3. Commanders will establish necessary controls to ensure that automobile owners maintain
     currently valid liability insurance policies.
  6.5. Insurance Requirements for TDY or Leave Personnel Bringing a Vehicle Into Turkey:
     6.5.1. Obtain a green card valid in Turkey before departure for Turkey, or obtain tourist insurance
     at border crossing point.
     6.5.2. Consider limits of liability. Information may be obtained from chief of security forces, mil-
     itary legal offices, or Turkish consulates located in countries outside of Turkey.
  6.6. Licensing of Operators:
     6.6.1. Any military member of the NATO Forces stationed in Turkey, or TDY in Turkey, who
     operates a vehicle in Turkey must possess a standard bilingual driver’s permit, USAFE Form 181,
     Vehicle Operator’s Permit for Turkey, which the chief of security forces issues to persons pos-
     sessing valid driver’s license. These bilingual permits will be the only driving permits recognized
     for US Forces personnel under the provisions of this instruction, with the exception of dependents.
     For members of NATO Forces on official orders in Turkey, a valid (current) driver’s license,
     which is required to obtain a USAFE Form 181, is defined as a current US driver’s license from
     any State of the Union, a valid international driver’s license, or a Turkish driver’s license. USAFE
     Form 181 may also be issued with AF Form 2293, USAF Motor Vehicle Operator Identifica-
     tion Card, as provided for in Article IV of the NATO SOFA.
     6.6.2. All dependents of military members of NATO Forces and all US civilians and their depen-
     dents subject to this instruction who operate a vehicle in Turkey must possess either a valid Turk-
     ish driver’s license, or an international driver’s license issued by any country other than Turkey.
12                                                                     USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004


     6.7. Sale and Turkish Registration of Privately Owned Vehicles. The Turkish Government estab-
     lishes the procedures and requirements for the sale and registration of POVs by individuals within
     Turkey. These procedures and requirements are subject to change. Commanders will ensure that their
     Customs Liaison Office establish procedures which conform with Turkish requirements. These proce-
     dures will require that complete coordination between the area chief of security forces or military and
     Customs Liaison Offices occurs on the processing of all vehicle sales (see paragraphs 6.3.).
     6.8. Legal Speed Limits. Unless otherwise posted, the legal speed for driving of passenger cars in
     Turkey are 31 miles (or 50 kilometers) per hour within inhabited places, and 55 miles (or 90 kilome-
     ters) per hour on the open highway. Operators of vehicles will consider road, weather, and lighting
     conditions as important factors in determining a safe speed.
     6.9. Accident Reporting. The operator of any motor vehicle involved in an accident that causes
     injury or death to any person, or any damage to property should:
        6.9.1. Immediately stop the vehicle and render reasonable assistance to any person injured in the
        accident. This includes taking the injured person to a physician for medical treatment if it is appar-
        ent that such treatment is necessary, or if such treatment is requested by the injured person.
        6.9.2. Give name, address, and the registration number of the vehicle to any police officer who
        may be present, to the person injured, to the driver, or occupants of any vehicle involved in the
        accident.
        6.9.3. Immediately report the matter to a duly authorized US law enforcement officer. If the oper-
        ator is physically incapable of making the report, the owner of the motor vehicle (if not the opera-
        tor), or the investigating agency will make the report.
        6.9.4. Not move the vehicle unless it is absolutely necessary; i.e., when there is no other vehicle
        to transport the injured person(s) in need of immediate medical help.
     6.10. Suspension and Revocation of Operator’s Permit. Suspension and revocation of USAFE
     Form 181, operators’ permits are accomplished according to the provisions of applicable service
     instructions and directives.

7. Forms Prescribed.
     7.1. USAFE Form 181, Vehicle Operator's Permit for Turkey
     7.2. USAFE Form 540, Request for Transfer of POV
     7.3. USAFE Form 554, NATO Beyanname
     7.4. USAFE Form 675, European Exchange Service (EES) Beyanname (Turkey Only)



                                                       JAMES R. WISE, Colonel, USAF
                                                       Staff Judge Advocate
USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004                                                                          13


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of Their Forces, signed
19 June 1951 (NATO Status of Forces Agreement). (4 UST 1792; 199 UNTS 64) (BGB1 1961, II, 1138,
1190)
EUCOM Directive 45-7, Country Regulations, 17 Dec 1997, HQ USEUCOM, Unit 30400, Box 1000,
APO AE 09128. Available at http://pubs.eucom.mil/ed/ed45-50/.pdf.
Agreement, with Minutes of Understanding, between the UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND TUR-
KEY Implementing Status of Forces Agreement of June 19, 1951, between the Parties to the North Atlan-
tic Treaty. Available at https://wwwmil.usafe.af.mil/direct/ja/JAI/Documents/SOFA/Turkey1.htm

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
FSO—Financial Services Office
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NATO SOFA—North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement
ODC-T—Office of Defense Cooperation, Turkey
POV—Privately owned vehicle
TGS—Turkish General Staff
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USCINCEUR—United States Commander in Chief Europe
USCR—United States Country Representative
USDRT—United States Defense Representative Turkey
USEUCOM—United States European Command
14                                                                   USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004


                                            Attachment 2

                                         BEYANNAME ITEMS

A2.1. Items for Beyanname:
     A2.1.1. Television Sets
     A2.1.2. Music Systems—Stereo/MIDI/Racks
     A2.1.3. Portable Music Systems—Boom Boxes
     A2.1.4. Video Cassette Recorders—VCRs
     A2.1.5. Video Cassette Players—VCPs
     A2.1.6. TV/Radio/Cassette Recorders (Combination Sets)
     A2.1.7. TV/Video Cassette Recorders (Combination Sets)
     A2.1.8. Video Cameras, Camcorders
     A2.1.9. Video Game Sets (Operated with Cassette or Cartridge)
     A2.1.10. Home Computers (RAM up to 2 Megabyte)
     A2.1.11. Portable Computers (RAM up to 2 Megabyte)
     A2.1.12. Pocket Computers (RAM up to 512 Kilobyte)
     A2.1.13. Bicycles (Except Child’s Bicycles)
     A2.1.14. Electric Typewriters
     A2.1.15. Sewing Machines
     A2.1.16. Knitting Machines
     A2.1.17. Air Conditioner Units
     A2.1.18. Washers
     A2.1.19. Dryers
     A2.1.20. Dish Washers
     A2.1.21. Refrigerators
     A2.1.22. Deep Freezers
     A2.1.23. Kitchen Centers/Food Processors
     A2.1.24. Electric Ovens
     A2.1.25. Microwave Ovens
     A2.1.26. Home Generators
     A2.1.27. Water Heaters – Electric
     A2.1.28. Vacuum Cleaners
     A2.1.29. Lawn Mowers
USAFEI51-707 11 MARCH 2004                                                                             15


   A2.1.30. Shotguns, Hunting Guns (Smooth Bore)

NOTES:
     1. Any item on the above list, regardless of price, must be placed on the beyanname.
       2. Goods that are not on the list and are not furniture sets will be placed on the beyanname if the
          item’s value exceeds $200 or equivalent foreign currency.
       3. Furniture will be placed on the beyanname as “living room set,” “dining room set,” “bedroom
          set,” “kitchen furniture set,” and the number of pieces will be annotated in parenthesis next to
          the item.
