BY ORDER OF THE                                              HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                              ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3522

                                                                             13 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                             ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/A5D                                                Certified by: HQ USAFA/A5/8/9
                                                                   (Lt Col Christopher J. Nelson)
Supersedes:    USAFAI36-3522,                                                           Pages: 12
               9 February 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, and describes the general roles, responsibilities, and interactions between faculty, staff,
and cadets at the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA). This instruction applies to all Air
Force military and civilian personnel assigned to USAFA, and US Air Force Reserve (AFRC)
and National Guard (ANG) personnel assigned to USAFA. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force
(AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. The authorities to waive
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier ("T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3") number
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a
description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority. The waiver
authority for non-tiered requirements in this publication is USAFA HQ/A589 CC. Ensure that
all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed
of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Air Force Cadet Wing (AFCW) role and responsibilities were deleted and replaced with AIR
FORCE CADET WING INSTRUCTION (AFCWI) 38-101, Command Duties and
Responsibilities, to prevent confusion. The Commandant of Cadets (HQ USAFA/CW)
recommended having only one instruction outlining command duties and responsibilities for all
cadets. Duties and responsibilities of classroom section marchers were also updated.
 2                                                         USAFAI36-3522 13 FEBRUARY 2014


1. General. While each mission element at USAFA focuses on different aspects of
development, all share a common theme: cadets will most effectively develop the leadership and
character required of officership when they exercise authority and accept responsibility for
leading the daily operations of the Cadet Wing. This theme is a direct application of Force
Development doctrine described in Air Force Doctrine Document 1-1, Leadership and Force
Development, and the character development framework described in Air Force Pamphlet 36-
3527, Officer Development System (ODS). The conceptual framework is the foundational
philosophy guiding all staff and faculty interactions with cadets. This philosophy not only
enhances the leadership, followership, and character challenges cadets face, but also allows
permanent party to focus on guiding development, evaluating progress, and structuring follow-on
opportunities. In support of this philosophy, the following guidelines will be employed in all
mission elements.
     1.1. Expectations of Air Force Cadet Wing (AFCW) Leadership. The officer chain of
     command, from every cadet through the Superintendent, always remains accountable for
     mission accomplishment. As such, it will establish organizational goals, strategies to achieve
     those goals, and boundaries in which the AFCW leadership must operate within those
     boundaries and in accordance with the dual chain of command structure detailed in
     succeeding paragraphs, faculty and staff will emphasize delegation of individual and
     organizational responsibilities, and the authority to carry out those responsibilities, to cadets
     to the maximum extent possible.
     1.2. Faculty and Staff Intervention. Faculty and staff will focus on mentoring cadets and the
     AFCW chain of command as appropriate to address the issue at hand rather than providing
     solutions to the issue. Direct faculty and staff action should be limited to ensuring alignment
     with AF guidance and to situations for which safety or good order and discipline are
     immediate concerns, or where extreme mission degradation could reasonably be anticipated
     if action is not taken.
     1.3. Requirement for Exemplary Conduct. Title 10, U.S. Code, section 8583 requires
     exemplary conduct of all commanding officers and others in authority in the Air Force.
     Faculty and staff are, by definition, in positions of authority and are therefore responsible to
     demonstrate exemplary conduct. Furthermore, as current leaders in the Cadet Wing and
     future officers in the United States Air Force (USAF), the AFCW chain of command and all
     cadets are also responsible for structuring their conduct and behaviors around this
     requirement. All USAFA faculty, staff, and cadets must therefore:
        1.3.1. Show themselves to be a good example of virtue, honor, patriotism, and
        subordination (followership);
        1.3.2. Be vigilant in inspecting the conduct of all persons who are placed under their
        authority;
        1.3.3. Guard against and suppress all dissolute and immoral practices, and to correct,
        according to the laws and regulations of the Air Force, all persons who are guilty of
        them; and
        1.3.4. Take all necessary and proper measures, under the laws, regulations, and customs
        of the Air Force, to promote and safeguard the morale, physical well-being, and general
        welfare of all persons under their authority.
USAFAI36-3522 13 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                  3


2. Command Organization. As a developmental organization and leadership laboratory,
USAFA employs two parallel chains within a single command – the AFCW cadet chain and the
permanent party active duty chain. The permanent party chain educates, trains, and mentors
cadets; creates and sustains an AFCW environment focused and oriented on the operational
active duty environment; ensures good order and discipline, and exercises Uniform Code of
Military Justice (UCMJ) authority as necessary. The primary goal of the AFCW cadet chain is
to encourage cadet leaders to accept their role and exercise their authority to develop and mentor
the cadets in their classroom, team, element, flight, squadron, group, and wing; and to support
the maintenance of good order and discipline of all cadets through the Cadet Disciplinary System
(CDS) and administrative actions, (e.g., Letters of Counseling [LOCs] and Letters of
Admonishment [LOAs]). The roles of both chains are further defined in paragraph 3.
   2.1. Command and Control of Cadets. Overall cadet command, time allocation, and
   excusals are established by United States Air Force Academy Instruction 36-2014, Allocation
   of Cadet Time. Command and Control of cadets is further delegated as follows: the
   Superintendent has delegated Operational Control (OPCON) of cadets to the Commandant of
   Cadets, and assigned permanent party to their respective mission elements. For cadets,
   Tactical Control (TACON) is transferred per the Air Force Academy Cadet Wing Schedule
   of Calls (SOC), the summer training schedule published by the Directorate of Training
   Support (HQ USAFA/CWT), or by a Scheduling Committee Action (SCA) to the specified
   mission element. As a result, instructors, coaches, Officer in Charge (OIC)s, etc., exercise
   Tactical Control (TACON) when cadets report to their classrooms, athletic fields, USAFA
   airfield, etc. Finally, HQ USAFA/CW exercises Administrative Control (ADCON) over all
   cadets at all times
   2.2. General Expectations for all USAFA leaders with cadet contact time.. Every member of
   the USAFA community has the opportunity and duty to participate directly in the
   professional development of our cadets. All personnel should seize every opportunity to
   mentor cadets and provide them with as many diverse developmental opportunities as
   possible. Each person brings unique experiences and talents in addressing developmental
   areas and enabling cadets to reach their primary goal of becoming officers of character.
   Finally, communication between the Air Officers Commanding (AOC), Academy Military
   Trainers (AMT), instructors, coaches, and all other involved personnel increases the
   resolution of the sight picture of each cadet’s performance. Forming a cohesive
   developmental team is a critical element to producing leaders of character. The following
   paragraphs define the general responsibilities of faculty and staff.
       2.2.1. Good Order and Discipline. Whether local or deployed, all permanent party
       personnel remain responsible for the good order and discipline of our cadets. We must be
       prepared to mentor and counsel cadets in pursuit of high standards. Reference cadet
       conduct standards contained in Chapter 1 of AIR FORCE CADET WING MANUAL 36-
       3501, The Cadet Sight Picture, which is available electronically on the Academy
       Intraweb. This guidance covers general customs and courtesies as well as classroom
       standards and the responsibilities of the senior cadet present in any situation. Cadet-
       specific uniforms and other restrictions are also included in subsequent chapters of
       AFCWMAN 36-3501. As each person sees fit, on-the-spot corrections should be made
       through the most senior cadet present and followed up with the AOC/AMT team to
       ensure accountability.
 4                                                      USAFAI36-3522 13 FEBRUARY 2014


        2.2.2. Mentoring. We must all serve as role models and mentors in the formation of
        cadets’ character, leadership skills, and professional qualities. Be prepared to shift the
        responsibility of leadership onto the most senior cadet available. Each of us must be
        ready to contact the AOC/AMT team to ensure proper follow-up for both positive and
        negative behavior.
        2.2.3. Safety Monitoring. We must ensure that all cadets know and understand the
        limitations placed on them to ensure their personal safety during all aspects of their
        Academy experience.
3. Roles and Responsibilities.
     3.1. Headquarters, Commandant of Cadets. HQ USAFA/CW is tasked with command,
     control, and administrative support for more than 4,000 cadets.
        3.1.1. Commandant. Supervises four Group AOCs and the Cadet Wing Commander
        (AFCW/CC). Responsible for the Center for Character and Leadership Development
        (CCLD) and the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Program (SAPR). Reports to
        the Superintendent.
           3.1.1.1. Operationalizes ODS. Develops and executes policies and programs for
           leadership development through the ODS. Maintains an AFCW organizational
           structure with prescribed roles for each cadet class to develop leadership
           competencies and to provide them with meaningful leadership opportunities.
           Provides the AFCW staff with guidelines and policies for the operation of the AFCW.
           3.1.1.2. Ensures Good Order and Discipline. Monitors the wing’s disciplinary
           environment and decides, with the advice of the permanent party and cadet chains,
           whether to pursue punitive UCMJ actions. Monitors uniformity of discipline within
           CW and reviews policies for execution of the CDS and administrative actions.
           3.1.1.3. Mentors/Supervises/Evaluates.     Models professional leader-follower
           behaviors for the AFCW. Directly mentors the AFCW commander, staff and group
           AOCs in the development of policies and practices, and meeting the challenges of
           command. Responsibilities include career counseling, assistance for follow-on
           assignments, and professional development. Applies the ODS to tailor expectations
           of the AFCW staff members. Evaluates AFCW commander and staff members
           through the assignment of Military Performance Appraisals (MPA).
        3.1.2. Group Air Officer Commanding. Supervises 4 Group Deputy Commanders, 4
        Group Superintendents, and ten squadron AOCs. Mentors the Cadet Group Commander
        and his/her staff. Reports to the Commandant.
           3.1.2.1. Standardizes Development. Monitors the developmental climate of the cadet
           group staff and assigned squadrons. Maintains effective communication practices to
           enhance standardization within the group. Mentors subordinate commanders
           (squadron AOCs) in the application of ODS practices and the execution of CW
           policies and programs. Responsible for shaping the professionalism of the cadet
           group staff and the group’s permanent party.
           3.1.2.2. Ensures Good Order and Discipline. Monitors the disciplinary environment
           of the group while ensuring uniformity of discipline and the proper execution of the
USAFAI36-3522 13 FEBRUARY 2014                                                               5


        CDS and administrative actions. Works with cadet group staff and the squadron
        AOCs to develop appropriate rehabilitative plans for individual cadets. Advises
        Commandant on UCMJ actions.
        3.1.2.3. Mentors/Supervises/Evaluates.       Models professional leader-follower
        behaviors for the group. Directly mentors the cadet group staff and squadron AOCs
        in the development of policies and practices and meeting the challenges of command.
        Responsibilities include career counseling, assistance for follow-on assignments, and
        professional development. Applies the ODS to tailor expectations of the cadet group
        staff members. Evaluates group staff members through the assignment of MPAs.
     3.1.3. Squadron Air Officer Commanding (AOC). Reports to Group AOC. Supervises
     one or two Squadron AMTs. Mentor for all cadets in his/her squadron and also serves as
     the primary mentor for cadets executing leadership roles within the cadet squadron.
        3.1.3.1. Develops Cadets into Officers. Models Air Force Core Values and replicates
        the environment of an operational unit to assimilate cadets into the Air Force culture.
        Empowers the cadet chain of command to establish goals, processes, policies, and
        mechanisms to achieve success. Guides the cadet chain of command in maintaining
        high standards of discipline, developing unit esprit de corps, and implementing
        training programs utilizing the Personal-Interpersonal-Team-Organizational (PITO)
        framework of competencies to create a standard set of expectations. Develops the
        cadet chain of command’s ability to train, mentor, counsel, and evaluate their fellow
        cadets through the Leadership Growth Model (LGM).
        3.1.3.2. Ensures Good Order and Discipline. Develops cadet understanding of how
        operational Air Force commanders employ disciplinary actions to rehabilitate airmen
        in order to enhance cadet-to-cadet accountability. For non-UCMJ cases, the cadet
        squadron staff will analyze the issue and, in consultation with the AOC/AMT,
        determine the appropriate corrective action through the CDS and/or administrative
        actions. When UCMJ action is warranted, the AOC will integrate the cadet chain of
        command into the decision-making process to help squadron leaders/all cadets
        understand the severity of the action. During the academic year, the AOC maintains
        ADCON of cadets when assigned to summer programs, Temporary Duty (TDY), etc.
        Finally, the AOC should involve coaches, instructors, advisors, etc., to gain the most
        accurate picture of a cadet before acting.
        3.1.3.3. Officer Mentor/Instructor/Evaluator. Guides, supervises, and evaluates cadet
        performance by employing operational Air Force practices. Serves as role model and
        mentor in the formation of personal character, cadet leadership skills, sustained
        physical fitness, and professional qualities. Works with the Squadron AMT, coaches,
        faculty, staff, and cadet supervisors to customize and integrate developmental efforts
        for each cadet. Evaluates cadet performance through MPA determinations and
        retention/commission recommendations (through the Group AOC) to the
        Commandant. Instructs and supervises execution of Commissioning Education (CE)
        lessons for the squadron.
     3.1.4. Squadron Academy Military Trainer (AMT). Reports to the squadron AOC.
     Mentors all cadets; is the primary mentor for cadets executing Non-Commissioned
     Officer (NCO) roles within the cadet squadron.
6                                                      USAFAI36-3522 13 FEBRUARY 2014


           3.1.4.1. Develops Cadets into Officers. Assists cadets in their personal adjustment to
           military life. Counsels the cadet chain on matters of followership,
           personal/interpersonal leadership, military customs and courtesies, personal
           appearance, self-discipline, and standards. Instructs cadet leadership as directed by
           syllabus, CW policy, or as required to maintain/restore good order and discipline.
           Monitors the squadron’s military training environment and advises the AOC and
           cadet leaders in overcoming deficiencies and anticipating challenges.
           3.1.4.2. Advises AOC and Cadet Squadron Leadership Regarding Good Order and
           Discipline. Principal advisor to the AOC in maintaining discipline and standards.
           Provides insight into the squadron’s morale and the dynamics affecting unit success.
           Mentors cadet chain of command by providing cadet leaders with feedback
           concerning their leadership techniques.        Advises cadet leaders on training
           methodologies and setting goals/objectives within the PITO model.
           3.1.4.3. NCO Mentor/Instructor. Teaches cadets to follow superiors and to model
           behavior for subordinates. Educates cadets on NCO roles and responsibilities. Acts
           as a role model of the enlisted force’s expertise and professionalism. Helps cadets
           understand officer-enlisted relationships and equips them to supervise, lead, and care
           for all Airmen post-graduation. Uses counseling techniques and professional
           experience to advise and counsel cadets on personal and professional development,
           discipline, behavior problems, training, and military bearing. Motivates cadets
           through examples and modeling to develop military attitudes, effective human
           relations, and social skills for improving interpersonal and military relations.
    3.2. Air Force Cadet Wing (AFCW). The AFCW chain of command serves as a
    developmental organization and is similar in structure to an operational wing in the Air
    Force. Reference AFCWI 38-101.
    3.3. Dean of the Faculty (HQ USAFA/DF).
       3.3.1. DF Faculty Member. Commands classroom in support of the DF mission.
           3.3.1.1. Guides Educational Development. Provides instruction based on subject
           matter expertise and sound educational principles, within a context of application of
           the subject matter in the operational Air Force environment. Provides mentoring to
           guide cadets’ decisions regarding educational development and officer development
           in support of their commitment to becoming a leader of character. Evaluates cadet
           performance through academic grade determinations.
           3.3.1.2. Ensures Good Order and Discipline. As commander of the classroom
           environment, faculty members remain responsible for their sections’ good order and
           discipline. Employs mentoring and counseling to guide the section marcher in
           maintaining high standards.        Follows-up with section marcher to ensure
           accountability. If necessary, initiates direct contact with cadets’ AOCs and cadet
           chain of command to determine appropriate course of action.
           3.3.1.3. Officer/Professional Airman Mentor/Evaluator. Serves as a role model and
           mentor in the formation of cadets’ character, leadership skills, and professional
           qualities.   Provides inputs to AOCs via the MPA system and additional
USAFAI36-3522 13 FEBRUARY 2014                                                               7


        communications as necessary. Works with AOCs to customize and integrate
        developmental efforts for each cadet.
     3.3.2. Classroom Section Marchers. Each classroom instructor will choose a section
     marcher or section marchers for the classroom. Section marchers are the instructor’s
     assistants for maintaining classroom standards and classroom administration. Section
     marchers will monitor the behavior of other cadets in the classroom and assist instructors
     as needed.
  3.4. Directorate of Athletics (HQ USAFA/AD).
     3.4.1. Coach, Assistant Coach, and Physical Education (PE) Instructor.        Commands
     athletic events in support of the AD mission.
        3.4.1.1. Guides Physical Development. Provides instruction and coaching based on
        subject matter expertise and sound developmental principles within the context of
        developing character and leadership essential to the operational AF environment.
        Provides mentoring to guide cadets’ decisions regarding a life-long commitment to
        physical development. Evaluates cadet performance through grade determinations.
        3.4.1.2. Ensures Good Order and Discipline. As commander of the immediate
        environment in and around the athletic facilities and while deployed for competitions,
        coaches and instructors remain responsible for their team’s or section’s good order
        and discipline. Employs mentoring and counseling to guide the team captain or
        section marcher in maintaining AF standards. Follows-up with the team captain or
        section marcher to ensure accountability. If necessary, initiates direct contact with
        cadets’ AOCs and cadet chain of command to determine appropriate course of action.
        3.4.1.3. Officer/Professional Airman Mentor/Evaluator. Serves as a role model and
        mentor in the formation of cadets’ character, leadership skills, and professional
        qualities.   Provides inputs to AOCs via the MPA system and additional
        communications as necessary. Works with AOCs and team Officer Representatives
        to customize and integrate developmental efforts for each cadet.
     3.4.2. Classroom Section Marchers. Each classroom/ PE instructor will choose a section
     marcher or section marchers for the classroom. Section marchers are the instructor’s
     assistants for maintaining classroom standards and classroom administration. Section
     marchers will monitor the behavior of other cadets in the classroom and assist instructors
     as directed.
  3.5. 306th Flying Training Group (306 FTG).
     3.5.1. Airmanship Staff/Instructor/Evaluator Team OIC/ Non-Commissioned Officer in
     Charge (NCOIC). Commands airmanship activities in support of the 306 FTG mission.
        3.5.1.1. Establishes Air Force Aeronautical Training Environment. Models Air
        Force Core Values and replicates the environment of a flying training unit to
        assimilate cadets into the Air Force culture. Empowers the cadet instructor/Cadets-
        in-Charge (CIC) to establish goals, processes, policies, and mechanisms to achieve
        success. Guides the cadet chain of command in maintaining high standards of
        discipline, developing unit esprit de corps, and implementing training programs
        utilizing the Personal-Interpersonal-Team-Organizational (PITO) framework of
8                                                      USAFAI36-3522 13 FEBRUARY 2014


           competencies to create a standard set of expectations. Develops the cadet chain of
           command’s ability to train, mentor, counsel, and evaluate their fellow cadets through
           the LGM.
           3.5.1.2. Ensures Good Order and Discipline. As commander of the immediate
           environment in and around the airmanship facilities and while deployed for training
           and competitions, staff/instructors/evaluators remain responsible for the unit’s good
           order and discipline. Employs mentoring and counseling to guide the team
           captain/section commander/cadet instructor in maintaining standards. Follows-up to
           ensure accountability. If necessary, initiates direct contact with cadets’ AOCs to
           determine appropriate course of action.
           3.5.1.3. Officer/Professional Airman Mentor/Evaluator. Provides instruction and
           coaching based on subject matter expertise, sound developmental principles, and
           within the context of developing character and leadership essential to the operational
           AF environment. Evaluates cadet instructor qualification per syllabus standards.
           Serves as a role model and mentor in the formation of cadets’ character, leadership
           skills, and professional qualities. Provides inputs to AOCs via the MPA system and
           additional communication as necessary. Works with AOCs as necessary to customize
           and integrate developmental efforts for each cadet. Mentors cadets regarding future
           participation in an aviation career.
       3.5.2. Cadet Airmanship Instructor/Team Captain/CIC.
           3.5.2.1. Develops Airman Mindset. Assists cadets in their personal adjustment to
           military aviation. Instructs cadets as directed by syllabus, 306 FTG policy, or as
           required to maintain AF standards. Establishes a military flying training environment
           and replicates the environment of an operational unit to assimilate cadets into the AF
           culture.
           3.5.2.2. Maintains Good Order and Discipline.       Establishes the disciplinary
           environment (including flight discipline) and facilitates effective and efficient
           processes for execution of the CDS and administrative actions. Works with cadet
           airmanship staff and 306 FTG permanent party to develop an appropriate course of
           action for individual cadets. Directs immediate actions to address problems as
           necessary.
           3.5.2.3. Supervises/Mentors/Evaluates Airmanship Students and Subordinate
           Airmanship Instructors. Models Air Force Core Values. Develops subordinates’
           technical skills in support of the airmanship program. Models professional leader-
           follower behaviors. Directly mentors students in meeting the challenges of the flight
           environment. Evaluates students’ performance per syllabus standards. Maintains
           communication with the cadet squadron chain of command to ensure continuity of
           development.
    3.6. Mission Element Augmentees. Every person assigned to USAFA has the opportunity to
    participate directly in the development and professionalism of our cadets through a wide
    variety of mission element augmentee duties. All personnel should seize every opportunity
    to mentor cadets and provide them with as many diverse developmental opportunities as
    possible. Each person will bring unique experiences and talents in addressing developmental
USAFAI36-3522 13 FEBRUARY 2014                                                               9


  areas and help the cadets towards their goal of becoming officers of character. The following
  paragraphs delineate the specific roles and responsibilities of a few of these positions.
     3.6.1. Associate AOC/AMTs, Associate AOCs for Academics (AAOCA), Squadron
     Professional Ethics Advisors (SPEA). These augmentees advise, support, and serve as a
     force multiplier for the AOC/AMT team by synergistically executing the AOC’s
     developmental vision. Specific duties per HQ USAFA/CW and HQ USAFA/DF
     guidance.
     3.6.2. Officer of the Day (OD) and Dorm Security Patrol (DSP). Specific authority and
     responsibilities are per HQ USAFA/CW guidance. Interactions with cadets follow the
     basic developmental philosophy previously outlined in paragraph 1. Act on behalf of the
     Commandant in working with the AFCW leadership to resolve issues. Bring
     discrepancies to the attention of the Senior Officer of the Day (SOD), the immediate
     Squadron Duty Officer (SDO), or the senior cadet present for correction. For SOD and
     SDO authority and responsibilities, reference AFCWI36-102, Cadet Charge of Quarters
     and Duty Officer Responsibilities and AFCWI 38-101.
     3.6.3. Summer Program/Club Officer in Charge (OIC) and Intercollegiate Team Officer
     Representative (OR). Faculty and staff members are frequently assigned as OICs for
     summer programs, clubs, and teams operating locally, nationally, and across the globe in
     direct support of the USAFA mission. Whether locally or deployed, the OIC/OR remains
     responsible for the good order and discipline of cadets assigned to their program.
     Employs mentoring and counseling to guide the program CIC/Team Captain in
     maintaining high standards.          Follows-up with CIC/Team Captain to ensure
     accountability. If necessary, initiates direct communication with cadets’ AOCs and cadet
     chain of command to determine appropriate course of action. Provides input to cadet
     squadron for MPA based on observations of cadets’ character, leadership skills, and
     professional qualities in accordance with the PITO model. Should also provide feedback
     to the AOC/AMT team to help complete the sight picture of the cadets’ development.




                                          EVAN M. MILLER, Colonel, USAF
                                          Vice Superintendent
 10                                                USAFAI36-3522 13 FEBRUARY 2014


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 8 November 2011
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy,25 May 2011
USAFAI 36-2014, Allocation of Cadet Time,16 February 2012
USAFAI 36-2401, Military Performance Appraisal,14 November 2013
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADCON—Administrative Control
AFCW—Air Force Cadet Wing
AMT—Academy Military Trainer
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
CDS—Cadet Disciplinary System
CE—Commissioning Education
CHOP—Change of Operational Control
CIC—Cadet in Charge
DSP—Dormitory Security Patrol
LGM—Leadership Growth Model
LOA—Letter of Admonishment
LOR—Letter of Reprimand
MPA—Military Performance Appraisal
OD—Officer of the Day
ODS—Officer Development System
OIC—Officer in Charge
OPCON—Operational Control
OR—Officer Representative
PE—Physical Education
PITO—Personal, Interpersonal, Team and Organizational Leadership
SCA—Scheduling Committee Action
USAFAI36-3522 13 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                     11


SDO—Squadron Duty Officer
SOC—Schedule of Calls
SOD—Senior Officer of the Day
SPEA—Squadron Professional Ethics Advisor
TACON—Tactical Control
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy

Terms
Administrative Control—(DOD) Direction or exercise of authority over subordinate or other
organizations in respect to administration and support, including organization of service forces,
control of resources and equipment, personnel management, unit logistics, individual and unit
training, readiness, mobilization, demobilization, discipline, and other matters not included in the
operational missions of the subordinate or other organizations. Reference: DoD Dictionary of
Military Terms, http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/dod_dictionary/.
Operational Control—(DOD) Command authority that may be exercised by commanders at
any echelon at or below the level of combatant command. Operational control is inherent in
combatant command (command authority) and may be delegated within the command. When
forces are transferred between combatant commands, the command relationship the gaining
commander will exercise (and the losing commander will relinquish) over these forces must be
specified by the Secretary of Defense. Operational control is the authority to perform those
functions of command over subordinate forces involving organizing and employing commands
and forces, assigning tasks, designating objectives, and giving authoritative direction necessary
to accomplish the mission. Operational control includes authoritative direction over all aspects
of military operations and joint training necessary to accomplish missions assigned to the
command. Operational control should be exercised through the commanders of subordinate
organizations. Operational control normally provides full authority to organize commands and
forces and to employ those forces as the commander in operational control considers necessary
to accomplish assigned missions; it does not, in and of itself, include authoritative direction for
logistics or matters of administration, discipline, internal organization, or unit training.
Reference: DoD Dictionary of Military Terms, http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/dod_dictionary/.
Permanent Party—Assigned active duty, civilian, National Guard, reserve, and select
contractors represent USAFA’s permanent party.
— Cadet appointed by faculty member of academic section to assist in maintaining classroom
standards and classroom administration. Responsible for monitoring the behavior of other cadets
in the classroom and assisting instructors as needed.
Tactical Control—(DOD) Command authority over assigned or attached forces or commands,
or military capability or forces made available for tasking, that is limited to the detailed direction
and control of movements or maneuvers within the operational area necessary to accomplish
missions or tasks assigned. Tactical control is inherent in operational control. Tactical control
may be delegated to, and exercised at, any level at or below the level of combatant command.
When forces are transferred between combatant commands, the command relationship the
 12                                                   USAFAI36-3522 13 FEBRUARY 2014


gaining commander will exercise (and the losing commander will relinquish) over these forces
must be specified by the Combatant Commander. Tactical control provides sufficient authority
for controlling and directing the application of force or tactical use of combat support assets
within the assigned mission or task. Reference: DoD Dictionary of Military Terms,
http://www.dtic.mil/doctrine/dod_dictionary/.
