BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3533

                                                                            27 JANUARY 2010
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 29 March 2012

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                       REQUIREMENTS FOR GRADUATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/DFR                                                   Certified by: HQ USAFA/DF
                                                                        (Brig Gen Dana H. Born)
Supersedes:    USAFAI36-165,                                                           Pages: 4
               13 March 2002


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD 36-35), United States Air Force
Academy, and defines the requirements for graduation from the USAF Academy as established
by the USAF Academy Board. It applies to United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) cadets,
faculty, and staff. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units
or the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and
other publications to HQ USAFA/DFR, 2354 Fairchild Hall, Suite 2G13, United States Air Force
Academy, Colorado 80840, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)           Records        Disposition        Schedule       (RDS)          located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the opening paragraph, paragraph 2.1.3. and adds Attachment 1. A
margin bar (|) indicates revisions from the previous edition.
1. Eligibility. Cadets will attend the USAF Academy not less than 4 academic years (8
semesters) to be eligible for graduation.
2. Graduation Requirements:
 2                                                        USAFAI36-3533 27 JANUARY 2010


     2.1. To graduate from the USAF Academy and be awarded a Bachelor of Science degree, a
     cadet must demonstrate an aptitude for commissioned service and leadership, be satisfactory
     in conduct, and meet all military training, physical education, and academic requirements.
        2.1.1. To fulfill the military training requirements, a cadet must satisfactorily complete
        the professional and character development curriculum and all core training
        requirements. Additionally, all cadets must meet a minimum standard of a cumulative
        military performance average (MPA) of 2.00.
        2.1.2. To fulfill the athletic graduation requirements, cadets are required to complete the
        physical education curriculum and earn a cumulative physical education average (PEA)
        of at least a 2.00 as explained in AFI 36-2020, Disenrollment of United States Air Force
        Academy Cadets (will convert to USAFAI 36-2020). PEA is a function of three
        performance scores: cadet physical fitness test (PFT), cadet aerobic fitness test (AFT)
        and PE classes.
        2.1.3. To fulfill the academic requirements, a cadet must satisfactorily complete the core
        curriculum (or equivalent) and an academic major or the Bachelor of Science Program.
        Additionally, cadets must meet a minimum standard of a cumulative grade point average
        (GPA) of 2.00, have a cumulative GPA of 2.00 in the core curriculum, and have a
        cumulative GPA of 2.00 in their major or in the Bachelor of Science Program, and
        complete 131 semester hours in residence.
     2.2. Cadets who satisfactorily complete the requirements for graduation with the Bachelor of
     Science degree as described above are awarded a diploma consisting of a stainless steel
     shield on a wood backing and a paper diploma with the following words inscribed:
“By virtue of the authority vested in the Secretary of the Air Force (name of graduating cadet)
having completed the required course of study as a member of the XX graduating class has been
judged worthy to receive the degree of Bachelor of Science in XX and is admitted to that degree
with all the rights, privileges, and honors pertaining thereto. In witness whereof we have set our
hands and fixed the seal of the United States Air Force Academy this XX day of XX in the year
of our Lord XXXX.”

This diploma is signed by the Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC), the Commandant of Cadets
(HQ USAFA/CW), the Director of Athletics (HQ USAFA/AD), and the Dean of the Faculty
(HQ USAFA/DF).
     2.3. Students from foreign countries are designated International Cadets. International
     Cadets for whom English is a second language will be awarded validation credit for their
     native language. International Cadets must fulfill all other Academy graduation requirements
     to earn a Bachelor of Science degree. Those who do not are awarded a certificate of
     completion, which will state that they attended the USAF Academy for four years.
3. Special Cases:
     3.1. Normally, the academic program is completed by cadets in residence. A semester in a
     USAFA-sponsored exchange program or study abroad program, and the courses
     completed/transferred/validated during that semester (up to a maximum of 24 semester
     hours), count toward the residency requirement for graduation. A cadet can participate in
     one, but not more than one, exchange or study abroad program during his/her cadet career.
USAFAI36-3533 27 JANUARY 2010                                                                3


   3.2. The USAF Academy Board may make exceptions to the procedures and requirements
   stated above. Normally, exceptions are considered by the USAF Academy Board upon
   recommendation of the Academy’s various deficiency review committees.
   3.3. Cadets who pass away prior to successful completion of their degree may only be
   posthumously awarded a degree by the USAFA if at least six semesters have been
   successfully completed. If the surviving family member(s) of the deceased cadet wishes to
   pursue the awarding of the degree, the family must initiate the request in writing to the
   USAFA senior leadership for consideration. There will be no automatic initiation/granting of
   posthumous degrees. If six semesters have not been successfully completed, family members
   or the cadet squadron may request the presentation of a USAFA Certificate of Attendance,
   which will normally be presented during an appropriate squadron ceremony during
   graduation week.
4. References. The academic, physical education and military training curricula are completely
described in the USAF Academy Catalog and the Curriculum Handbook. Determination of
proficiency in aptitude for commissioned service is outlined in AFI 36-2020, Disenrollment of
United States Air Force Academy Cadets, and USAFAI 36-3523, Review and Disposition of
Deficient Cadets. Weight standards are in accordance with AFI 10-248, Fitness Program, and
deficiencies in conduct are defined in current Air Force Cadet Wing instructions.
5. DELETED.




                                           MICHAEL C. GOULD, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                           Superintendent
 4                                                    USAFAI36-3533 27 JANUARY 2010


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 25 May 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFT—Aerobic Fitness Test
ANG—Air National Guard
GPA—Grade Point Average
MPA—Military Performance Average
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PEA—Physical Education Average
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
