BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                       INSTRUCTION 36-732
(USAFE)                                                                          10 NOVEMBER 2006
                                                             Incorporating Change 1, 11 December 2007
                                                                     Certified Current, 12 October 2012
                                                                                              Personnel

                                                              ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY
                                                                    TESTING OF LN EMPLOYEES
                                                                             AND APPLICANTS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/A1CP                                                        Certified by: HQ USAFE/AIC
                                                                                   (Mr. Robert C. Maier)
Supersedes USAFEI 36-732, 12 November 2004                                                     Pages: 5

This instruction implements AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations. It establishes the
procedures for procuring, maintaining, controlling, handling, and reporting of English language testing
materials used to determine the English Language Proficiency (ELP) of Local National (LN) employees
and applicants for positions administered by a USAFE Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF). It does not apply
in areas where host governments conduct such testing and certification according to a labor agreement
completed under the terms of a treaty. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes pre-
scribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (will
convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, 31 Aug 1994 and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in AFRIMS (AF Portal).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This interim change adds the following paragraph to Table A2.1. of the instruction since it was inadvert-
ently omitted in the previous revision. “„RE-TESTING. The waiting period for re-testing applicants or
employees who fail to meet the established passing scores identified above is 2 months.“ A bar ( | ) indi-
cates a revision from the previous edition


1. Basic Requirement. The responsible CPF conducts English language testing where ELP is a require-
ment as identified in the respective qualification standard of a position to be filled by a LN. Generic
descriptions of ELP levels and ALCPT cutoff scores are at Attachment 2.

2. When LN Applicants or Employees must complete ELP Tests.
2                                                                USAFEI36-732 10 NOVEMBER 2006


    2.1. LN applicants, employees, or contractor personnel may be required to have ELP if they:
       2.1.1. Are applying for a position identified and documented as having a valid ELP requirement
       by management officials.
       2.1.2. Have not previously demonstrated ELP at the appropriate level. External applicants who
       were previously tested more than one year ago may be required to take the test again.
    2.2. When justified, the chief of the non-United States (U.S.) staffing section may waive language
    requirements for certain positions completely or partially. The requirement for testing may be waived
    in cases where management officials clearly recognize that an applicant’s or employee’s ELP is suffi-
    cient or if the appropriate ELP is certified by valid documentation.
    2.3. The previous ELP tests (Air Force Personnel Tests (AFPT) 720, 730) may still be used until
    stocks are exhausted.

3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. Civilian Policy Branch (HQ USAFE/A1CP):
       3.1.1. Establishes basic program policy and procedures.
       3.1.2. Provides program oversight and guidance.
    3.2. Installation Commanders:
       3.2.1. Ensure positions requiring ELP are identified by management officials.
       3.2.2. Ensure compliance with this instruction.
    3.3. Unit Managers and Supervisors:
       3.3.1. Identify positions under their supervision which require ELP.
       3.3.2. Notify the LN personnel program staff at the CPF immediately when an employee or appli-
       cant does not have sufficient ELP.
    3.4. Civilian Personnel Officers (CPO):
       3.4.1. Inform operating officials of the provisions of this instruction.
       3.4.2. Establish local English language testing material requirements.
       3.4.3. With the approval of HQ USAFE/A1CP, may raise ELP cutoff scores to match more
       restrictive local employment requirements.
       3.4.4. Appoint a Test Control Officer (TCO) to manage the test program.
    3.5. Test Control Officers:
       3.5.1. Manage the overall English language test program.
       3.5.2. Ensure test materials are secured and keys or combinations for locks are safeguarded
       against unauthorized access at all times.
       3.5.3. Administer English language tests in accordance with the test manual, determine scores and
       record test results.
USAFEI36-732 10 NOVEMBER 2006                                                                            3


      3.5.4. Verify and record test results for LN personnel on USAFE Form 249, Test Record, and file
      in the employee’s official personnel folder.
      3.5.5. Inventory and secure test material after use and conduct a semi-annual inventory.
      3.5.6. Destroy by shredding all answer sheets and scratch papers used by test subjects, as well as
      old, damaged, or obsolete test material.
      3.5.7. Procure replacement test material when needed.

4. ALCPT: Description, Procuring, Maintaining, Controlling, and Handling.
   4.1. The ALCPT is published by the Defense Language Institute English Language Center (DLIELC)
   and consists of an administration handbook, 25 test booklets, 2 scoring keys, and either 2 audiotapes
   or 1 audio compact disk (CD). Answer sheets are available separately at quantities of 500 each. There
   are a variety of test versions available which differ in regard to the topics and questions but have the
   same scope and quality of testing, i.e. to determine listening and reading comprehension. Therefore,
   the ALCPT can only be considered a tool for screening applicants. The conclusive determination of an
   applicant’s ELP - to include speaking/ conversation and writing skills - will have to be made during a
   personal job interview.
   4.2. The LN personnel program staff at the CPF is responsible for funding, procuring, and maintain-
   ing an inventory of ALCPT materials to meet the annual ELP testing needs. For an overview of test
   materials and ordering information refer to the DLIELC website at http://www/dlielc.org. Addition-
   ally, the CPF will procure and maintain the necessary equipment for administering tests such as an
   audio cassette- or CD-player.
   4.3. All test materials will be controlled and secured in a locking file cabinet, security file, or file
   drawer, using as a minimum a “one-lock” procedure to prevent test compromise due to unauthorized
   access. Do not store any other material with the English language test material.
   4.4. Test material will be inventoried upon removal from its container for test use and when returned
   to the container. Additionally, a semi-annual inventory of all test material will be conducted in Janu-
   ary and July. As a minimum, the following reportable data will be checked and recorded in the
   semi-annual inventory: Test form numbers, scoring keys and quantities, audio tape / CD designations
   and quantities, test booklet serial numbers and quantities, and test administration manual quantities.
   Discrepancies, incidents, suspected or actual test compromise will be reported immediately to the
   CPO and to HQ USAFE/A1CP, Unit 3050 Box 25, APO AE 09094-5025.
   4.5. Forms Prescribed: USAFE Form 249, Test Record.



                                               DENNIS J. DEGRAFF, Colonel, USAF
                                               Director of Manpower and Personnel
4                                                       USAFEI36-732 10 NOVEMBER 2006


                                        Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations, 11 January 1994
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ALCPT—American Language Course Placement Test
CD—Compact Disc
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CPO—Civilian Personnel Officer
DLIELC—Defense Language Institute English Language Center
ELP—English Language Proficiency
LN—Local National
TCO—Test Control Officer
USAFEI36-732 10 NOVEMBER 2006                                                                      5


                                              Attachment 2

    MEASUREMENT OF ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY LEVELS FOR LOCAL
                             NATIONALS

A2.1. Table A2.1. shows ELP levels for Local Nationals.

Table A2.1. ELP Levels for Local Nationals.
   ELP                                                                                   Cutoff
                                          Requirements
   Level                                                                                 Score
     I.      a. Speaking. Able to satisfy minimum courtesy requirements and                   41
             maintain very simple face-to-face conversations on familiar topics.

             b. Reading. Sufficient comprehension to read very simple written
             material.
     II.     a. Speaking. Able to satisfy most work requirements with language                65
             usage that is acceptable and effective. Able to speak the language with
             sufficient structural accuracy and vocabulary to participate in most
             formal and informal conversations on practical, social, and professional
             topics.

             b. Reading. Able to read within normal range of speed and with
             almost complete comprehension a variety of material on unfamiliar
             subjects. Can comprehend a variety of styles and forms pertinent to
             professional needs. Rarely misinterprets texts.
    III.     a. Speaking. Able to use the language fluently and accurately on all             85
             levels normally pertinent to professional needs. Language usage and
             ability to function are fully successful.

             b. Reading. Able to read fluently and accurately all styles and forms
             of the language pertinent to professional needs.
NOTE:
The cutoff scores listed only refer to the ALCPT, i.e. the testing of listening and reading
comprehension.
RE-TESTING: The waiting period for re-testing applicants or employees who fail to meet the
established passing scores identified above is 2 months.“
