BY ORDER OF THE                                           HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                           ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3532

                                                                                25 APRIL 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                                PERMANENT PROFESSORS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFA/A1                                                  Certified by: HQ USAFA/A1
                                                                             (Col John T. Linn)
                                                                                     Pages: 14
Supersedes:   USAFAI36-151,
              20 March 2000


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, and the applicable portion of the United States Code, and provides guidance for
managing Permanent Professors assigned to the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) to
include nomination and appointment, sabbaticals, continuation, removal, and retirement. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National
Guard (ANG). This instruction establishes procedures IAW AFI 36-3501, Air Force Academy
Operations. This instruction does not negate the responsibility of The Judge Advocate General
to assign judge advocates under 10 U.S.C. § 806. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

This publication requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C., Sections 8013 and EO 9397. System of records notice
justification number 11, Legacy System Interface applies.
 2                                                             USAFAI36-3532 25 APRIL 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been renumbered from USAFAI36-151 to USAFAI36-3532 to align with
the AFPD being implemented, and it incorporates provisions of AFI 36-3501, Air Force
Academy Operations. Additionally USAFAI 36-160, Sabbatical Assignments, has been
rescinded and incorporated into this instruction. It also describes the selection process for the
Permanent Professor assigned to the Center for Character & Leadership Development, and
includes domains and competencies for annual reports and five-year performance reviews.
1. Why Permanent Professors? Permanent Professors provide senior faculty leadership,
strategic direction, organizational stability, and long-term academic program
continuity. Their special terms of service reflect the demands of maintaining the highest quality
course of instruction at a military academy. They are the critical anchors of stability for evolving
academic programs, and they insulate the Academy from the turbulence of rapid rotational
assignments on the effectiveness of the institution. Permanent Professors also establish and
maintain close links to the operational AF, as well as with the national and international
academic community. Such ties bolster the professional relevance of the curriculum and faculty.
Furthermore, Permanent Professors serve as senior role models and mentors to cadets and
faculty, and they imbue the curriculum with character and leadership development. Permanent
Professors also serve in key corporate roles on Department of Defense, AF, and Academy boards
of governance by providing strategic perspectives grounded in institutional memory, and their
longer tenures foster closer integration and teamwork among the USAFA mission partners.
Finally, by demonstrating that military and academic leadership are a single integrated ideal,
they embody the Airman-scholar.
     1.1. The 10 U.S.C. § 9331(b)(4) specifies the maximum number of Permanent Professors at
     the Air Force Academy of the grade specified in 10 U.S.C. § 9336(a).
     1.2. Permanent Professors are appointed to a new statutory status, separate and distinct from
     their previous status and competitive categories. They remain part of the Regular AF (10
     U.S.C. § 8075(b)), but they are not on the active duty list (ADL) (10 U.S.C. § 641(2).
     Permanent Professors are excluded in determining the number of line officers serving on
     active duty in the grades of major, lieutenant colonel, and colonel (10 U.S.C. § 523(b)(8)).
        1.2.1. Permanent Professors are ineligible to sit on commissioned officer selection
        boards because such boards must be comprised of officers on the ADL (10 U.S.C. § 612).
     1.3. Permanent Professors, whether assigned to the Dean of the Faculty (USAFA/DF) or
     Directorate of Athletics (USAFA/AD), are heads of departments of instruction. The
     Permanent Professor assigned to the Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW) is the Director of
     the Center for Character & Leadership Development.
        1.3.1. A Permanent Professor assigned by the Dean of the Faculty to serve as Vice Dean
        continues to be viewed as a "department head" with respect to the provisions of this
        instruction.
2. Nomination and Appointment. Permanent Professor nominees must be outstanding AF
officers highly qualified in disciplines they would teach. Academically qualified AF officers in
the grade of major and above may be considered. Candidates will have a doctorate or
appropriate professional degree in a relevant academic field and demonstrated excellence as an
USAFAI36-3532 25 APRIL 2012                                                                        3


Airman-scholar. Consideration factors may include, but are not necessarily limited to, leadership
qualities and experience, operational military experience, currency and professional (teaching,
research, and scholarly publication) experience and effectiveness in the applicable academic
field, and professional military education.
   2.1. The appropriate mission partner lead (Dean of the Faculty, Commandant of Cadets, or
   Director of Athletics) nominates candidates through the Director of Manpower and Personnel
   (HQ USAFA/A1) to the Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC) to be forwarded through the
   Deputy Chief of Staff, Manpower and Personnel (AF/A1) and the Assistant Secretary of the
   AF for Manpower and Reserve Affairs (SAF/MR) to the Chief of Staff of the AF (CSAF)
   and the Secretary of the AF (SecAF). The final nominee is forwarded to the President of the
   United States (see Attachment 2 for the sequence of events).
   2.2. Permanent Professors shall be appointed by the President of the United States, by and
   with the advice and consent of the Senate (10 U.S.C. § 9333(b)).
       2.2.1. After Senate confirmation, HQ USAFA/A1K publishes a special order of
       appointment. This special order, when tendered to the nominee, operates as tender of
       Presidential appointment, by delegation. Acceptance of the appointment is presumed.
       2.2.2. The date of rank to Colonel of a Permanent Professor is the effective date of the
       officer's appointment or promotion, whichever is earlier. The appointment orders will
       include the date of rank.
3. Titles. The SecAF may prescribe the titles of each of the departments of instruction and the
Permanent Professors of the Academy. However, the change of the title of a department or
officer does not affect the status, rank, or eligibility for promotion or retirement of, or otherwise
prejudice, a Permanent Professor at the Academy (10 U.S.C. § 9332).
4. Distinctive Badge. Permanent Professors will wear the distinctive identification badge
(approved by the CSAF on 10 January 1966) in accordance with AFI36-2903, Dress and
Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel.
5. Command. Permanent Professors exercise command only in their respective academic
department or directorate of the Academy (10 U.S.C. § 9334(b)). The exercise of this authority
is detailed in AFI36-3501, Air Force Academy Operations. A Permanent Professor does not
exercise command authority of an Air Force unit or organization and, therefore, is not a
commander.
6. Flying Status. Permanent Professor appointment will not affect the aeronautical rating of an
officer. Air Force policy regarding flying status of rated personnel applies to Permanent
Professors.
7. Additional Pay. A Permanent Professor who has completed 36 years of cumulative
creditable service based on the date used to compute longevity pay increases is entitled to
additional pay of $250 per month. This additional pay may not be used in computing retired pay
(37 U.S.C. § 203(b)).
8. Sabbatical Assignments. Permanent Professors will periodically (normally every five years)
serve on sabbaticals in fields directly related to their Permanent Professor responsibilities to
ensure they remain current in their discipline or serve in the operational AF for the purposes of
refreshing their operational experience in their primary career field. Upon the recommendation
 4                                                             USAFAI36-3532 25 APRIL 2012


of the appropriate mission partner lead and at the request of HQ USAFA/CC, HQ USAFA/A1
will coordinate with the AF Colonel Management Office (AF/DPO) to place these officers in
positions based upon their experience and specialty, as well as the needs of the AF and USAFA.
Sabbaticals can be short-term or extended deployments, fellowships within or outside the AF, or
TDYs in support of the operational AF; every sabbatical requires HQ USAFA/CC approval.
Permanent Professors who decline sabbatical assignments may be subject to disciplinary action
and/or recommendation for removal (see paragraph 10). Permanent Professors serving on
sabbaticals remain on USAFA manning documents.
9. Continuation. Continuation of Permanent Professors beyond 30 years of service is normally
in the best interests of USAFA and the AF, and is presumed unless Permanent Professors
voluntarily retire or action is initiated for sufficient cause under paragraph 10.
     9.1. Consistent with the best leadership accountability practices, the appropriate mission
     partner lead will conduct five-year performance reviews (see Attachment 3, “Criteria for
     Review”) after completion of the 30th, 35th, and 40th years of commissioned service, and
     provide a summary to HQ USAFA/CC. The HQ USAFA/A1K will maintain a suspense
     system for five-year reviews and, no later than four months prior to the date, will notify the
     mission partner lead and Permanent Professor. While the primary purpose of these reviews
     is to provide a focus on the future, they can also serve as a basis, where appropriate, for
     removal action under paragraph 10. These reviews also serve as a basis to recommend
     Permanent Professors for promotion to the grade of brigadier general upon retirement (see
     paragraph 11).
10. Removal. Permanent Professors are subject to involuntary removal from the AF by
termination of their appointments (other than by retirement for age) because of involuntary
retirement by the SecAF after 30 years commissioned service (10 U.S.C. § 8920), court-martial
sentence to dismissal, administrative discharge (AFI36-3206, Administrative Discharge
Procedures for Commissioned Officers), or drop-from-the-rolls action (AFI36-3207, Separating
Commissioned Officers). Their appointments may also be terminated by Presidential action as
described in AFI36-3501 after they have been provided notice and an opportunity to respond.
Note that in such cases of special Presidential removals, transfer of the Permanent Professor to
another appointment status (e.g., the Line of the AF) cannot be assured.
     10.1. The appropriate mission partner lead or HQ USAFA/CC may remove Permanent
     Professors from their department head positions and use them in any capacity befitting their
     grade and time in service at USAFA.
11. Retirement. Unless retired or separated at an earlier date, a Permanent Professor shall be
retired no later than the first day of the month following the month in which he/she becomes 64
years of age (10 U.S.C. § 1252). Upon retirement, any Permanent Professor whose grade is
below brigadier general, and whose service as such a Professor has been long and distinguished,
may, at the discretion of the President, be retired in the grade of brigadier general (10 U.S.C. §
8962) without the pay of that grade. For this retirement promotion, the individual must have 30
or more years of total active federal commissioned service and 10 or more years of continuous
service as a Permanent Professor or department head. In conformance with the desire of the
President, Deputy Secretary of Defense memorandum, 21 July 1964, delegated approval
authority for these promotions to the SecAF. The SecAF further delegated retirement promotion
appointment authority to the SecAF Personnel Council (30 August 1967 memorandum). In
USAFAI36-3532 25 APRIL 2012                                                                5


addition, Headquarters Air Force Mission Directive 1-24, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
(Manpower and Reserve Affairs), contains the Secretarial delegation to the SAF/MR, and the
latter‟s redelegation to the SecAF Personnel Council.




                                          MICHAEL C. GOULD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                          Superintendent
 6                                                          USAFAI36-3532 25 APRIL 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 25 May 2011
AFI 36-3501, Air Force Academy Operations, 28 April 2008
AFI36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 July 2011
AFI36-3206, Administrative Discharge Procedures for Commissioned Officers, 9 June 2004
AFI36-3207, Separating Commissioned Officers, 9 July 2004
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADL—Active Duty List
AF—Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SecAF—Secretary of the Air Force
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy

Terms
Mission Partner Lead—Dean of the Faculty, Commandant of Cadets, and Director of Athletics.
USAFAI36-3532 25 APRIL 2012                                                                     7


                                         Attachment 2
  SEQUENCE OF EVENTS: GUIDELINES FOR NOMINATING AND APPOINTING
                     PERMANENT PROFESSORS

A2.1. Dean of the Faculty, Commandant of Cadets, or Director of Athletics (as
appropriate):
   A2.1.1. Identifies Permanent Professor position to be filled.
   A2.1.2. Appoints ad hoc search committee and any additional members (including external
   reviewers) deemed necessary to screen and evaluate all prospective candidates. The
   USAFA/DF committee consists of at least three Permanent Professors; USAFA/CW and
   USAFA/AD committees consist of at least three senior officers, including at least one
   Permanent Professor from USAFA/DF.
A2.2. Ad hoc Search Committee:
   A2.2.1. Provides HQ USAFA/A1K with a list of desired qualifications (e.g., academic
   specialty codes, rank, teaching and leadership experiences) to generate initial list of
   candidates.
A2.3. Directorate of Manpower and Personnel (HQ USAFA/A1K):
   A2.3.1. Obtains candidate lists and officer career briefs (OCBs) from AF/DPO for colonels
   and colonel-selects, as well as other appropriate sources for lieutenant colonels and below, if
   required, and furnishes them to the ad hoc committee for review. The HQ USAFA/A1K will
   obtain additional personnel information, as necessary, when requested by the committee.
A2.4. Ad hoc Committee:
   A2.4.1. After reviewing OCBs, recommends to the mission element lead those candidates to
   be invited to apply. After his/her approval, committee chair extends formal invitations along
   with explicit instructions on the requirements of the application package.
   A2.4.2. After screening application packages, recommends to the mission element lead those
   candidates to be invited for funded interviews at USAFA (or via video teleconference, if in-
   person interviews are not possible). After his/her approval, these candidates are scheduled
   for separate interviews with the committee, Permanent Professor body (typically grouped by
   academic division), and mission element lead. After all interviews are completed, the
   committee sends its ranking of the best-qualified candidates to the mission element lead.
A2.5. Permanent Professors:
   A2.5.1. After interviews, meet to rank the candidates. Ranking is forwarded to mission
   element lead.
A2.6. Dean of the Faculty, Commandant of Cadets, or Director of Athletics (as
appropriate):
   A2.6.1. Establishes independent ranking of interviewed candidates (Dean of the Faculty also
   provides additional independent ranking of CW and AD candidates). Sends three (four for
   CW and AD selections) separate rankings through HQ USAFA/A1 to HQ USAFA/CC.
A2.7. Superintendent:
 8                                                           USAFAI36-3532 25 APRIL 2012


     A2.7.1. After considering three separate rankings, forwards his/her recommendation, along
     with other fully qualified nominees, through AF/A1 and SAF/MR, to the CSAF and SecAF.
     With CSAF and SecAF support, final nominee will be forwarded to the President of the
     United States for appointment after Senate confirmation.
A2.8. HQ USAFA/A1K:
     A2.8.1. Forwards nomination package to HQ AFPC/DPSOO for processing to Senate.
A2.9. AFPC/DPSOO:
     A2.9.1. Prepares Miscellaneous Nomination List package for coordination through the
     following agencies:
AF/A1E
AF/JA
AF/A1
SAF/GC
SAF/MR
CSAF
SECAF
OSD
PRESIDENT
SENATE

Note: After the nomination has been confirmed by the Senate, AFPC/DPSOO notifies
HQ USAFA/A1K, who in turn advises the Superintendent and Dean of the Faculty, as well as the
Commandant of Cadets or Director of Athletics, as appropriate. The HQ USAFA/A1K will also
inform AF/DPO, who will update the officer‟s date of separation and establish an assignment
availability code 50 to equal the first day of the month following his/her 64th birthday. AF/DPO
will also update an exclusion code removing the officer from all future active duty lists,
rendering the officer ineligible for future promotion consideration and PCS (excluding sabbatical
assignments). The process is complete when HQ USAFA/A1K publishes Permanent Professor
appointment orders and forwards copies to AFPC/DPSOO and AF/DPO.
USAFAI36-3532 25 APRIL 2012                                                                       9


                                         Attachment 3
   CRITERIA FOR REVIEW: USAFA PERMANENT PROFESSOR DOMAINS AND
                          COMPETENCIES

A3.1. Domain of Academic Discipline: Individual and Department - Contributions that
advance the departmental discipline and the generalized body of knowledge in support of
USAFA as a premier university.
       Individual scholarship and expertise - Publications, presentations, certifications/licenses,
       professional affiliations, national leadership positions, and academic distinctions reflect
       ongoing proficiency in one‟s academic discipline and role models lifelong learning and
       development.
       Department academic reputation - Core and majors‟ courses are of the highest quality in
       terms of content, delivery, and impact in support of USAFA mission, AF needs, and
       accreditation requirements. Department curriculum reflects current pedagogy. Cadets are
       active learners.
       Integration of discipline with other mission partners, appropriate professional and/or
       academic institutions, and AF/DoD - Appropriate application of academic discipline in
       support of USAFA outcomes through partnerships, curricular development, and
       pedagogical contributions.
A3.2. Domain of Institutional Advancement: Institutional Leadership - Contributions that
tactically, operationally, and strategically support the advancement of USAFA to internal and
external partners.
       USAFA service - Active leadership and participation on committees, working groups, and
       other teams that serve USAFA and AF needs, to include chairing ARCs, PERCs, or
       MRCs; involvement as ORs; and other team roles. Serves in roles that broadly support
       the Academy, such as speaking engagements, accreditation work, internal and external
       consultation, and Academy Board/BoV support.
       Innovation - Effectively supports USAFA via breakthroughs that advance the discipline,
       cadet development, and military readiness. Creates and communicates “best practices”
       that promote a climate of professional curiosity and rigor.
       Departmental leadership - Demonstrates complex leadership skills to establish an
       optimal organizational climate to develop and inspire subordinates who are motivated
       and capable to develop and inspiring cadets and other faculty/staff.
A3.3. Domain of Departmental Advancement: Departmental Management - Contributions
that model efficiency and mission accomplishment.
       Efficient administration - Proactively meets suspenses and coordinates departmental
       presence throughout duty day. Demonstrates skill in planning, prioritizing, and executing
       the mission; makes sound decisions; and delivers results. Monitors and evaluates existing
       processes to look for improvement and change.
       Talent and resource management - Procures and manages resources and personnel
       through a variety of mechanisms such as budget requests, soliciting fallout money,
       alternative sources of funding, and effective use of the military and civilian personnel
       systems.
 10                                                          USAFAI36-3532 25 APRIL 2012


      Judgment and decision making - Gathers vital information, analyzes situations, and
      makes informed decisions that consider and weigh departmental, institutional, and AF
      needs. Accepts responsibility for decisions, exhibits systems thinking, and delegates
      appropriately.
A3.4. Domain of Professionalism: Leading One’s Character - Contributions that exemplify
the highest standards of professional conduct.
      Appearance - Appearance, uniform, and fitness are exemplary.
      Interpersonal skills - Credible leader who is poised, confident, and effective.
      Demonstrates proactive and visible modeling of respect for human dignity; an active
      pursuit of diversity, the ability to build an effective team, and a balance between concern
      for people and accomplishment of the mission.
      Operational currency - Knows, understands, and has appropriate operational experience
      that enables cadets and all members of the Academy to link training and education with
      the requirements of the operational AF.
Table A3.1. Domain of Academic Discipline.
                             Domain of Academic Discipline: Individual and Departmental Leadership
                               Exceptional                                 Acceptable                                Improving                   Not
                                                                                                                                               Observed
Individual        Maintains steady                          Solid, generally consistent                  Minimal involvement in
scholarship and   publication/presentation schedule.        publication/presentation record. Maintains   publishing or academic
expertise         Sought after presenter/advisor. Expert    currency in professional organizations.      engagement outside the institution.
                  in his/her discipline with national
                  reputation. Role model for life-long
                  learning.
Department        Department publications/presentations     Publications, presentations, and courses     Department is not adequately
academic          frequent in academic                      meet expectations. Assessment strategies     seeking publication/presentation
reputation        journals/conferences. Courses are         are sound and appropriate accreditation      opportunities. Core courses are in
                  integral to cadet development and         standards are met. Department majors         development to meet mission
                  represent current pedagogy. Dynamic       meet AF needs.                               needs. Cadets are minimally
                  and accurate assessment. Department                                                    involved. Little evidence of
                  majors are active outside the classroom                                                assessment based curriculum
                  and are well prepared to meet AF                                                       development processes.
                  needs.
Integration of    Faculty and staff are sought out as       Faculty and staff are involved in            Department does not proactively
discipline with   external consultants from                 consulting and information sharing on an     seek out opportunities to
other mission     DoD/institutions of higher learning.      individual basis but department has          collaborate. Department has
partners and      Department demonstrates measurable        limited involvement with external            rudimentary assessment of
AF/DoD            and significant contributions to USAFA    organizations. Department participates in    USAFA outcomes and results
                  outcomes and proactively shares           USAFA outcome process and results            reveal limited impact.
                  lessons learned with other                reflect a positive contribution.
                  organizations.
 12                                                                 USAFAI36-3532 25 APRIL 2012


Table A3.2. Domain of Institutional Advancement.
                                  Domain of Institutional Advancement: Institutional Leadership
                             Exceptional                                  Acceptable                               Improving                  Not
                                                                                                                                            Observed
USAFA service   Proactively seeks opportunities to apply   Involved when asked to serve. Provides      Minimal initiative in seeking or
                expertise to critical internal and         educational leadership with generally       developing service opportunities.
                external issues. Seeks opportunities to    valuable outcomes. Ably represents          Rarely in public eye as USAFA
                represent USAFA in a variety of            USAFA in specific discipline.               leader.
                venues. Articulate guardian of USAFA
                curriculum and education. Professional
                ambassador for AF and USAFA.
Innovation      Seeks and creates „best practices‟ in      Keeps department practices current and      Difficulty maintaining department
                academic research, teaching, and           relevant to cadet and AF mission. Seeks     status quo. Slow to react or seeks
                service. Creative use of resources         resources when needed. Supports and         safe alternatives when innovation
                brings leading-edge tools/equipment to     initiates change and development to         is the better option.
                cadet education mission. Stimulates        address current needs.
                intellectual curiosity among faculty and
                cadets.
Departmental    Transformational leader. Effective         Manages the department successfully and     Department culture and climate
leadership      faculty development that enhances          learns from prior experiences. Department   are not compatible with top
                cadet development. Strong department       culture and climate support faculty         performing organizations.
                climate facilitates active pursuit of      development and positive morale.
                academic and professional interests.
USAFAI36-3532 25 APRIL 2012                                                                                  13


Table A3.3. Domain of Departmental Advancement.
                                 Domain of Departmental Advancement: Departmental Management
                                Exceptional                                  Acceptable                               Improving                   Not
                                                                                                                                                Observed
Efficient         Proactive practices aligned with           Runs an effective department requiring       Department projects and external
administration    USAFA mission and AF guidance.             very little oversight. Generally meets       correspondence requires external
                  Shares „best practices‟ to improve other   coordination requirements. Monitoring        review and correction. Slow to
                  departments. Meets and exceeds             and evaluation of suspenses is sufficient.   coordinate and communicate with
                  suspenses. External communications         Communicates effectively internally and      outside agencies. Priorities and
                  are correct and timely. Keeps              externally.                                  key processes are not monitored or
                  leadership informed of significant                                                      aligned resulting in delays or not
                  events/issues. Provides well thought                                                    meeting standards.
                  out courses of action and wise
                  solutions.
Talent and        Proactively coordinates with DF            Personnel and resources enable mission       Frequent resource or personnel
resource          personnel and budget offices to ensure     accomplishment. Fills quotas in timely       shortfalls. Reactive rather than
management        mission execution even when faced          fashion and meets budget and personnel       proactive resource management.
                  with shortfalls. Plans ahead to            suspenses. Manages critical resource         Evaluations do not represent
                  maximize pool of qualified instructors.    issues as they arise. Evaluations are        actual activity of department
                  Fair and consistent evaluations.           generally accurate and timely.               members.
Judgment and      Proactively and accurately analyzes        Generally accurate analysis that considers   Responds to challenges with hasty
decision making   data from multiple perspectives while      impact at departmental, institutional, and   or delayed analyses without
                  forecasting downstream consequences.       AF levels. Develops effective courses of     alternative courses of action.
                  Delegates to maximize efficiency.          action based on available information.       Rarely delegates or develops
                  Routinely develops decision making in                                                   judgment/decision skills in others.
                  others.
 14                                                                 USAFAI36-3532 25 APRIL 2012




Table A3.4. Domain of Professionalism.
                                        Domain of Professionalism: Leading One’s Character
                             Exceptional                                  Acceptable                               Improving                 Not
                                                                                                                                           Observed
Appearance      Professional bearing and exemplar of      Consistently meets standards.                Requires improvement to meet
                AF core values. Exceeds AF fitness                                                     standards in one or more areas.
                standards. Takes pride in appearance.
Interpersonal   Credible presence when commanding         Leads adequately, especially in his or her   Shows limited poise, credibility,
skills          an organization or directing a project.   discipline. Works well on a team and         and confidence. Department
                Controls emotions and effectively reads   accomplishes the mission. Generally          climate negatively impacted by
                emotions of others. Exceptional human     promotes respect and dignity and             leadership style and personal
                relations climate and active pursuit of   understands importance of diversity.         interactions. Demonstrates
                diversity. Exceptional balance of         Works toward mission/people balance.         inappropriate emotional control.
                people and mission.
Operational     Understands, supports, and applies        Knows current AF issues/policy/doctrine      Limited operational knowledge
currency        current AF policy/doctrine to USAFA       and includes this knowledge in curriculum    and awareness of AF/DoD
                mission. Balances operational             and classroom experience. Appropriately      events/issues. Minimally infuses
                expertise/currency with academic          emphasizes operational and academic          operational matters in department
                expertise/currency.                       expertise.                                   and classroom.
