Headquarters                                                                                             Army in Europe
United States Army Europe and Seventh Army
United States Army Installation Management Command                                                     Regulation 550-50*
  Europe Region
Heidelberg, Germany
Headquarters                                                                                                   CNE-C6F
U.S. Naval Forces Europe/U.S. Sixth Fleet
Naples, Italy                                                                                       Instruction 5820.8K*
Headquarters                                                                                                       USAFE
United States Air Forces in Europe
Ramstein, Germany                                                                                      Instruction 51-706*
                                                                                                   Certified current 30 October 2012
                                                                                                            26 November 2007

                                                     Foreign Countries

              Exercise of Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction Over United States Personnel

            *This publication supersedes USAREUR Regulation 550-50/USNAVEUR Instruction 5820.8J/
                                   USAFE Instruction 51-706, 31 January 2001.

For the Commander:                          Authenticated:

RUSSELL L. FRUTIGER                         A. M. KURTA                              WILLIAM T. HOBBINS
Brigadier General, GS                       Rear Admiral, USN                        General, USAF
Chief of Staff                              Director, U.S. Navy Europe               Commander
                                              Policy, Resources, and Strategy

Official:




DWAYNE J. VIERGUTZ                          J. E. FINK                               JAMES R. WISE
Chief, Army in Europe                       Captain, JAG, USN                        Colonel, USAF
  Document Management                       Force Judge Advocate                     Staff Judge Advocate

Summary. This publication defines policy, responsibilities, and procedures for protecting the rights of
U.S. personnel subject to foreign criminal jurisdiction.

Applicability. This publication applies to U.S. personnel stationed in, on temporary duty in, or passing
through the USEUCOM geographic area of responsibility.

Supplementation. Organizations will not supplement this publication without Office of the Judge
Advocate (OJA), HQ USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-ILOD), approval.

Forms. This publication prescribes AE Form 550-50A. AE and higher level forms are available through
the Army in Europe Publishing System (AEPUBS).

USAFE Only: This publication is affected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Each form that is subject to the
provisions of Air Force Instruction 33-332 and required by this publication includes a Privacy Act
statement, either incorporated in the body of the form or in a separate statement accompanying the form.

                                                               1
                                AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
Records Management. Records created as a result of processes prescribed by this publication must be
identified, maintained, and disposed of by—
● Army in Europe units according to AR 25-400-2. Record titles and descriptions are available on the
Army Records Information Management System website at https://www.arims.army.mil.
● CNE-C6F units according to Navy records management policy.
● USAFE units according to AFM 37-123. Records must be disposed of according to the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.
Suggested Improvements. The proponent of this publication is the OJA (AEAJA-ILOD, DSN 370-
7948). Users may suggest improvements to this publication by sending DA Form 2028 to the OJA
(AEAJA-ILOD), Unit 29351, APO AE 09014-9351.
Distribution. C (AEPUBS).

                                                CONTENTS

SECTION I
GENERAL PROVISIONS

   1. Purpose
   2. Scope
   3. References
   4. Explanation of Abbreviations and Terms
   5. Background
   6. Appointment of Designated Commanding Officers
   7. United States Country Representatives
   8. Country Liaison Agents
   9. Basic Policy
   10. Information Policy

SECTION II
PROCEDURE IN INDIVIDUAL CASES

   11. Initial Notification of Incident
   12. Initial Action on Determination of Jurisdiction
   13. Administrative Action
   14. Release From Foreign Custody
   15. Danger of Unfair Trial
   16. Prior Jeopardy
   17. Trials in Absentia
   18. Counsel Fees and Related Assistance

SECTION III
TRIAL OBSERVERS

   19. Appointment of Trial Observer
   20. Function of Trial Observer
   21. Unfair Trial
                                                        2
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
SECTION IV
UNITED STATES PERSONNEL CONFINED IN FOREIGN PENAL INSTITUTIONS

   22. Duties of United States Country Representative
   23. Visitation of United States Personnel Confined in Foreign Penal Institutions

SECTION V
REPORTS ON THE EXERCISE OF FOREIGN CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

   24. Annual Reports (Exercise of Criminal Jurisdiction by Foreign Tribunals Over United States
       Personnel)
   25. Trial Observer Reports and Trial Observer Reports on Appeal
   26. Confinement Reports (United States Personnel in Post-Trial Confinement in Foreign Penal
       Institutions)
   27. Visitation Reports (Visits to United States Personnel Confined in Foreign Penal Institutions)
   28. Serious or Unusual Incident Reports
   29. Individual Case Reports (Exercise of Criminal Jurisdiction by Foreign Tribunals Over United
       States Personnel)

SECTION VI
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTIONS AND COUNTRY LAW STUDIES

   30. United States Country Representative Instructions
   31. Country Law Study

Appendixes
A. Pertinent Provisions of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement
B. Duties and Responsibilities of Defense Attachés as Related to Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction
C. Designated Commanding Officers, U.S. Country Representatives, and Country Liaison Agencies in
USEUCOM
D. Sample AE Form 550-50A
E. Guide for Preparing Annual Reports Using DD Form 838
F. Reporting Procedures for USAFE
G. Country Representative Instruction—Belgium
H. Country Representative Instruction—Denmark
I. Country Representative Instruction—France
J. Country Representative Instruction—Greece
K. Country Representative Instruction—Italy
L. Country Representative Instruction—Luxembourg
M. Country Representative Instruction—the Netherlands
N. Country Representative Instruction—Norway
O. Country Representative Instruction—Spain
P. Country Representative Instruction—Turkey
Q. Country Representative Instruction—United Kingdom
R. General Court-Martial Convening Authorities in USEUCOM

Tables
E-1. Description of Specific Entries (Card 1)
E-2. Description of Specific Entries (Card 2)
                                                        3
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
Figures
D-1. Sample AE Form 550-50A
E-1. Sample DD Form 838
G-1. Memorandum for Providing Advice on Trials in Absentia
J-1. Document Samples for Requesting Waivers of Jurisdiction
J-2. Document Samples for Official Duty Cases
J-3. Sample Correspondence Asserting U.S. Jurisdiction Due to Official Duty
P-1. Ministry of Foreign Affairs Note No. 6302/5399
P-2. Ministry of Foreign Affairs Note No. 6302/5400
P-3. Official Duty Status
P-4. Sample Investigation
Q-1. Sample Official Duty Certificate
Q-2. Military International Hold Letter
Q-3. Civilian or Dependent International Hold Letter
Glossary

SECTION I
GENERAL PROVISIONS

1. PURPOSE
This publication—
    a. Defines responsibilities for protecting the rights of U.S. personnel subject to foreign criminal
jurisdiction, and prescribes policy and procedures for performing these responsibilities.
    b. Provides a uniform reporting system for matters involving the exercise of foreign criminal
jurisdiction over U.S. personnel.
    c. Implements and supplements procedures in AR 27-50/SECNAVINST 5820.4G/AFJI 51-706
(referred to in this publication as the Joint Service Regulation).

2. SCOPE
This publication applies to countries in the USEUCOM geographic area of responsibility (AOR),
including Germany. The policy in AE Regulation 550-56/USNAVEUR Instruction 5820.13F/USAFE
Instruction 51-705 will take precedence over the policy in this publication for Germany.

3. REFERENCES
   a. International Agreements.
       (1) NATO Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA). Agreement Between the Parties to the North
Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of Their Forces of 19 June 1951 (4 UST 1792). (Articles I and VII
are reproduced in appendix A.)
       (2) Germany. Agreement to Supplement the Agreement Between the Parties to the North
Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of Their Forces Stationed in the Federal Republic of Germany of 3
August 1959, amended by the Agreements of 21 October 1971, 18 May 1981, and 18 March 1993; the
Protocol of Signature to the Supplementary Agreement (14 UST 531); Revised NATO SOFA
Supplementary Agreement effective 29 March 1998; Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to
Germany (2 Plus 4 Agreement) of 12 September 1990; and 2 Plus 4 Implementing Notes, dated 12
September 1994.
                                                         4
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
      (3) Greece. The Mutual Defense Cooperation Agreement of 8 July 1990 and the Comprehensive
Technical Agreement of 13 June 2001, which became effective on 8 April 2003.
       (4) Italy. Bilateral Infrastructure Agreement (BIA) between the United States and Italy
(unclassified version of classified title) of 20 October 1954; Technical Agreement to the Memorandum
of Understanding Concerning the Use of Aviano Air Base in the Implementation of the NATO Decision
on the Deployment of the F-16 in Italy, signed 30 November 1993; Memorandum of Understanding
Concerning Use of Installation/Infrastructure by United States Forces in Italy of 2 February 1995; and
the U.S./Italy Acquisition and Cross Servicing Agreement, which became effective on 15 April 2001.
       (5) Spain. Agreement on Defense Cooperation Between the United States of America and the
Kingdom of Spain, signed 1 December 1988, as amended by the Protocol of Amendment to the ADC,
dated 10 April 2002, which became effective on 12 February 2003.
      (6) The Netherlands. Agreement, with annex, Between the United States and the Netherlands
Regarding Stationing of United States Armed Forces in the Netherlands of 13 August 1954 (6 UST
103).
       (7) Turkey. Agreement Between the United States and the Republic of Turkey Relative to the
Implementation of NATO SOFA of 23 June 1954 (5 UST 1465); Agreement Amending the Minute of
Understanding of 23 June 1954, entered into force on 21 July 1955 (6 UST 2917); Status of United
States Forces in Turkey Relative to Duty Certificates, entered into force on 24 September 1968; and
Cooperation on Defense and Economy (DEFA), entered into force on 29 March 1980 (32 UST 3323).
       (8) Iceland. Iceland is not a signatory of the NATO SOFA. The U.S.-Iceland Defense
Agreement, Basic Agreement, Pursuant to the North Atlantic Treaty Between the United States and the
Republic of Iceland of 5 May 1951, and the annex entitled Agreement Concerning the Status of United
States Personnel and Property of 8 May 1951, constitute the SOFA between the United States and
Iceland.
       (9) Partnership for Peace SOFA. Agreement Among the States Parties to the North Atlantic
Treaty and Other States Participating in the Partnership for Peace Regarding the Status of their Forces,
19 June 1995.

    b. Department of Defense Directive. DOD Directive 5525.1, Status of Forces Policies and
Information. (This directive is available at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/552501p.pdf.)

   c. Joint-Service Publications.

       (1) Defense Intelligence Agency Manual, Volume 100-1 (17 March 1997), subject: Foreign
Criminal Jurisdiction—Duties and Responsibilities of Defense Attachés as Designated Commanding
Officer (DCO) (reproduced in app B).

      (2) AR 27-50/SECNAVINST 5820.4G/AFJI 51-706, Status of Forces Policies, Procedures, and
Information.

       (3) AE Regulation 550-56/USNAVEUR Instruction 5820.13F/USAFE Instruction 51-705,
Exercise of Jurisdiction by German Courts and Authorities Over U.S. Personnel.

   d. Unified Command Publication. USEUCOM Directive 45-3, Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction Over
U.S. Personnel.
                                                         5
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   e. Army Regulations.

      (1) AR 25-400-2, The Army Records Information Management System (ARIMS).

      (2) AR 27-10, Military Justice.

      (3) AR 635-200, Active Duty Enlisted Administrative Separations.

   f. Air Force Instructions.

      (1) Air Force Instruction 36-3208, Administrative Separation of Airmen.

      (2) Air Force Instruction 51-703, Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction.

       (3) 16 Air Force Instruction 51-711, Service of United Kingdom Legal Process Within United
States Force Installations in the UK.

   g. Army in Europe Regulations.

      (1) AE Regulation 27-10, Military Justice.

       (2) AE Regulation 550-56/USNAVEUR Instruction 5820.13F/USAFE Instruction 51-705,
Exercise of Jurisdiction by German Courts and Authorities Over U.S. Personnel.

   h. Forms.

      (1) DD Form 838, Exercise of Criminal Jurisdiction by Foreign Tribunals Over United States
Personnel.

      (2) DD Form 1173, United States Uniform Services Identification and Privilege Card.

      (3) DD Form 1602, Report of Visit - U.S. Personnel in Foreign Penal Institution.

      (4) DD Form 1936, Individual Case Report - Exercise of Criminal Jurisdiction by Foreign
Tribunals Over U.S. Personnel.

      (5) DA Form 2028, Recommended Changes to Publications and Blank Forms.

      (6) Air Force Form 9, Request for Purchase.

      (6) AE Form 550-50A, Status of Forces Incident Report.

      (7) AE Form 550-56A, Exercise of Criminal Jurisdiction by Foreign Tribunals Over U.S.
Personnel Feeder Report.

4. EXPLANATION OF ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS
The glossary defines abbreviations and terms.



                                                       6
                        AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
5. BACKGROUND

   a. NATO SOFA.

        (1) The NATO SOFA was created in 1951 to define the rights and responsibilities of NATO
personnel stationed in NATO countries. However, it does not apply to NATO personnel stationed in
Iceland, because Iceland is not a signatory. Today the treaty is in effect in Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Turkey,
the United Kingdom, and the United States. The NATO SOFA also applies to countries that have
ratified the NATO Partnership for Peace SOFA.

        (2) Article VII of the NATO SOFA prescribes the conditions under which the respective criminal
jurisdiction rights of U.S. authorities and host nations are determined and exercised (para 12).

   b. The Senate Resolution. The U.S. Senate ratified the NATO SOFA by the Resolution of 15 July
1953. The Senate Resolution required the Executive Branch to ensure that a person subject to U.S.
military jurisdiction tried in a foreign court would be offered the same U.S. constitutional safeguards
available if the trial took place in a U.S. State court. Although the Senate Resolution applies only in
countries where the NATO SOFA is in effect, the same procedure for safeguarding the interests of U.S.
personnel subject to foreign jurisdiction applies, as far as practicable, in overseas areas where U.S.
Forces are stationed. This uniformity is established in DOD Directive 5525.1.

    c. DOD Directive 5525.1. This directive assigns the overall responsibility for implementing U.S.
policy pertaining to the Senate Resolution of 15 July 1953 to a single military commander (the DCO) for
each foreign country in which U.S. military forces are regularly stationed. This responsibility includes—
       (1) Preparing required country-law studies.
       (2) Securing waivers of custody and jurisdiction.
       (3) Maintaining liaison with U.S. diplomatic missions.
       (4) Maintaining liaison with appropriate legal authorities of host countries.
       (5) Providing trial observers.
        (6) Initiating the procedure for State Department action in matters pertaining to foreign criminal
jurisdiction.

   d. Joint Guidance. In addition to DOD Directive 5525.1, the other directives and agreements in
paragraph 3 provide basic guidance for the Services.

6. APPOINTMENT OF DESIGNATED COMMANDING OFFICERS

    a. Unified Commander. For many countries in the USEUCOM AOR, the unified commander
assigns one component commander the responsibility for implementing DOD and USEUCOM policy
and procedures for the following:

       (1) The exercise of foreign criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel.

                                                         7
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (2) The initiation of procedures set forth in the Senate Resolution for each country in the
USEUCOM AOR (app C). In executing these responsibilities, the component commander officially
serves and is known as the “Designated Commanding Officer, name of the country concerned.”

  b. DCOs. The following component commanders have been appointed by the Commander,
USEUCOM, as DCOs for the countries indicated (USEUCOM Dir 45-3, para 7b):

       (1) The CG, USAREUR/7A, for Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Germany, the
Netherlands, Poland, Romania, and Switzerland.

       (2) The Deputy COMUSNAVEUR for Greece, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Mozambique, South Africa,
Spain, Tanzania, and Tunisia.

      (3) The Commander, USAFE, for Cyprus, Denmark, France, Luxembourg, Morocco, Norway,
Portugal (including the Azores), Turkey, and the United Kingdom.

    c. Defense Attachés. In countries other than those specified in subparagraph b above, and in
accordance with pertinent provisions of references 3c(1) and (2) and 3d, U.S. defense attachés perform
the duties of DCOs in connection with the exercise of criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel by
foreign authorities and submit required administrative reports. In a country for which a component
commander has not been appointed as the DCO, HQ USEUCOM may appoint a DCO on a case-by-case
basis. In these cases, the U.S. defense attaché who would normally be responsible will be relieved of the
responsibility.

7. UNITED STATES COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVES

   a. Appointment. The DCO will appoint for each country under his or her responsibility (para 6) a
senior U.S. officer who will act as the U.S. country representative (USCR) of the DCO (USEUCOM Dir
45-3, para 5). (In Germany, the DCO also carries out the functions of the USCR.)

        (1) Except when the authority has been delegated by the USCR, the USCR will serve as the
single POC with the host country and the U.S. diplomatic mission in the country concerning criminal
jurisdiction over U.S. personnel by the host country.

        (2) Unless previously delegated to the USCR, the DCO makes the final decision whether or not
to request formal U.S. State Department action through diplomatic channels in order to obtain a waiver
or to relinquish criminal jurisdiction. In executing this delegated function, the USCR officially serves
and is known as the “U.S. Country Representative, name of the country concerned.”

       (3) Appendix C lists USCR appointments made according to USEUCOM Directive 45-3,
paragraph 7c. When a component commander appoints a USCR, a copy of the memorandum of
appointment should be sent to the unified commander and each of the component commanders listed in
the glossary.

   b. Responsibilities. Unless otherwise directed by the DCO, each USCR will—

       (1) Act as the POC for U.S. military Services with the U.S. diplomatic mission and the
appropriate national legal or administrative authorities of the foreign country concerned in matters of
criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel.
                                                         8
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (2) Coordinate with the national authorities of the host country through the U.S. diplomatic
mission in that country.
       (3) Implement this publication, when possible, uniformly for all Services.
     (4) Provide copies of implementing directives to the unified commander and component
commanders.
       (5) Ensure that information and education programs are established for the U.S. personnel
orientation on host-nation laws and customs and the NATO SOFA, Article VII, as applicable.
        (6) Perform duties assigned to the DCO within the host country, except as specifically reserved
for the DCO.
       (7) Prepare and transmit reports required by this publication, section V.
       (8) Perform other duties as prescribed by this publication or as otherwise assigned by the DCO.

    c. Assistance Available. USCRs, country liaison agents (para 8), and other officers responsible for
the requirements in this publication may seek technical assistance from the nearest U.S. military
command with a judge advocate or attorney advisor. Direct communication across command and
Service lines with respect to these matters is authorized. USCRs may refer problems about the exercise
of foreign criminal jurisdiction to the legal staff of the DCO with a request for review and appropriate
action.

8. COUNTRY LIAISON AGENTS

    a. Appointment. In host nations where they are not the DCO, component commanders will appoint
a senior commander to act as the country liaison agent for their respective branches of Service. The
component commander will appoint another agency not under his or her command, with its concurrence,
to act as the country liaison agent for personnel of his or her Service if any of the following applies:

       (1) A unit of his or her branch of Service is not regularly stationed in the country.

       (2) The USCR is of a different Service.

        (3) The USCR is the head of an agency not normally exercising command responsibilities over
units stationed in the country (for example, U.S. defense attaché, Office of Defense Cooperation).
Appendix C lists currently appointed country liaison agents.

   b. Responsibilities. Unless otherwise directed by the DCO or USCR, country liaison agents will—

       (1) Act as the central POC between units and personnel of their Service (or the Service that they
are appointed to represent) and the USCR and other U.S. authorities regarding the exercise of foreign
criminal jurisdiction over members of that Service in the host country.

       (2) Monitor incidents of foreign criminal jurisdiction involving personnel of the Service they
represent to ensure units and personnel comply with applicable regulations and international agreements.

       (3) Ensure that the component commander of the Service they represent is informed of incidents
and their processing.
                                                         9
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
     (4) Perform other functions of foreign criminal-jurisdiction matters that may be required by the
component commander of the Service they represent, subject to limits imposed by the DCO or USCR.

9. BASIC POLICY
    a. U.S. military authorities must maintain order and enforce discipline among U.S. personnel. This
responsibility extends to offenses committed by U.S. personnel and offenses against foreign law. U.S.
military authorities will dispose of offenses by U.S. personnel according to applicable U.S. laws and
directives, including the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), and pertinent international
agreements.
    b. U.S. authorities will attempt, if feasible, to obtain a waiver of foreign jurisdiction, or a decision by
foreign authorities not to exercise such jurisdiction, when the primary or exclusive right to exercise
jurisdiction is vested in the host country. If foreign authorities exercise jurisdiction, U.S. military
authorities will ensure that the accused receives a fair trial and fair treatment.
    c. If U.S. military authorities have the primary or exclusive right to exercise jurisdiction, or foreign
authorities waive or relinquish their primary or exclusive jurisdictional rights, U.S. military authorities
will dispose of the case promptly and appropriately.

10. INFORMATION POLICY
    a. General. U.S. military authorities will give the general public and Congress information on status
of forces matters. Military authorities will coordinate and provide information to the public and
Congress according to procedures established by Service directives.
   b. Foreign Authorities. When U.S. authorities dispose of a case, advance notification of the time
and place of the trial or results of action taken will be provided on request to the authorities of the
receiving state.

SECTION II
PROCEDURE IN INDIVIDUAL CASES

11. INITIAL NOTIFICATION OF INCIDENT

    a. Unit commanders will immediately report incidents (glossary) to the USCR or his or her designee
(in Germany, the local legal liaison authority) for the country in which the incident occurred and to the
involved Servicemember’s country liaison agent for that country (app C). For Navy and Air Force
personnel, commanders also will give information copies of the report to their chain of command. For
Air Force Reserve personnel, commanders will provide information to the reserve chain of command
and to the Judge Advocate, Headquarters, Air Force Reserve Command, at Robins Air Force Base,
Georgia. For serious or unusual incidents, the report will be transmitted electronically as a feeder report
for the serious or unusual incident report required by paragraph 28. For minor offenses (glossary)
involving Army or Navy personnel, the report will be submitted using AE Form 550-50A (app D) unless
the USCR has prescribed a different reporting format in USCR instructions.
   b. USCRs (in Germany, the local legal liaison authority) will—
       (1) Ensure that they or their designees are informed promptly of incidents within their AOR that
involve the exercise of foreign criminal jurisdiction or custody over U.S. personnel, regardless of the
branch of Service of the individual.
                                                         10
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (2) Try to obtain the release of U.S. personnel held in foreign custody (para 14).

        (3) Make informal applications for waiver or the relinquishment of criminal jurisdiction at the
local level when the foreign government has the exclusive or primary right to exercise jurisdiction.
(Formal application may be made if authorized by the DCO.) A request for waiver of jurisdiction is
authorized in cases when the request is considered appropriate.

       (4) Ensure that the reports required by section V of this publication are prepared and submitted.

12. INITIAL ACTION ON DETERMINATION OF JURISDICTION

    a. Exclusive Jurisdiction in the Host Country. USCRs will ensure that they are informed
immediately when the host-nation government intends to prosecute a case against U.S. personnel in
which the host nation has exclusive jurisdiction. If the unit commander determines that he or she can
take suitable administrative actions as described in paragraph 13, he or she should notify the USCR, who
will request that local foreign authorities relinquish their jurisdictional rights.

    b. U.S. Primary Right (Concurrent Jurisdiction). When it has primary right (concurrent
jurisdiction), the United States will take appropriate disciplinary or administrative action without delay.

   c. Host Country Primary Right (Concurrent Jurisdiction).

        (1) Disposition by U.S. Military Authorities. With the approval of the USCR or the appropriate
local legal liaison authority (AE Reg 550-56/USNAVEUR Inst 5820.13F/USAFE Inst 51-705;
applicable only in Germany), U.S. military authorities will take appropriate disciplinary or other action
without delay. The USCR will ensure that foreign authorities are promptly notified of the U.S. action
when requested.

       (2) Initial Action on Denial of Waiver Requests. If foreign authorities deny the request for
waiver of their primary right to exercise jurisdiction, the USCR or his or her designee will prepare the
report prescribed by paragraph 29.

13. ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION

   a. Transfer.

      (1) U.S. military authorities may not take the following actions without the approval of the DCO
or USCR:

          (a) Permit the transfer, reassignment, or removal of U.S. military personnel accused of or
suspected of being involved in incidents involving the possible exercise of foreign criminal jurisdiction.

           (b) Provide transportation at Government expense outside the host country for civilians or
Family members accused of or suspected of being involved in incidents involving the possible exercise
of foreign criminal jurisdiction.

        (2) Unit commanders will inform the DCO or USCR when unusual circumstances or Service
directives urgently require the individual’s transfer (for example, expiration term of service, grave
personal hardship, medical reasons, the interests of justice).
                                                        11
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (3) In cases involving serious offenses, Army military personnel are not permitted to be sent to
the continental United States without authorization by HQDA (DAJA-IA) (AR 27-10, para 17-3b).

       (4) Air Force personnel are governed by Air Force Instruction 51-703.

    b. Pretrial Action. When U.S. personnel are accused of or suspected of being involved in a criminal
incident involving a possible violation of foreign law, the commander will ensure that appropriate
administrative action is taken (for example, flagging action to ensure the individual is available pending
disposition of proceedings; suspension of exchange, commissary, or driving privileges, as may be
authorized).

       (1) Administrative action should have a direct relation to the alleged offense (for example, the
drivers license of an individual suspected of vehicular negligent homicide may be suspended; the coffee
or cigarette ration of an individual suspected of selling rationed coffee or cigarettes illegally may be
suspended).

        (2) Even if a foreign authority may invoke jurisdiction, U.S. military commanders will ensure
that pretrial action (for example, investigation, preferral of charges, referral of charges to trial, as
appropriate) is accomplished quickly and not delayed over jurisdictional issues in cases where
disciplinary action under the UCMJ is appropriate.

        (3) U.S. authorities will not bring an individual to trial, impose nonjudicial punishment, or make
other final disposition of a case until foreign authorities indicate they will waive or relinquish
jurisdiction or the approval of the component commander of the accused has been obtained.

        (4) Commanders may impose nonjudicial punishment to the extent permitted by their Service
regulations without applying to the DCO when it is unlikely that the offender will be punished by the
host country or if the imposition of nonjudicial punishment would substantially increase the likelihood
that the host country will waive its primary right to jurisdiction. Imposing nonjudicial punishment before
foreign authorities act is not prohibited by this publication. The following are situations in which
punishment by foreign authorities is unlikely:

           (a) The offense is of the type against which local host-country authorities usually take no
action or grant a waiver request.

           (b) The offense is subject to host-country amnesty.

           (c) Punishment is ordinarily suspended by the host-country court involved.

           (d) The offense is not subject to criminal punishment in the host country according to the
probable interpretation of the court involved.

    c. Serving Foreign Criminal Process. U.S. military authorities will help foreign courts and
authorities serve criminal process in foreign criminal matters. The USCR will request that foreign
authorities serve criminal process on U.S. personnel through the U.S. authorities. When U.S.
involvement is unnecessary or inappropriate, the U.S. authorities will request a copy of documents
served on U.S. personnel. In each case, U.S. military authorities will examine the documents, determine
whether foreign authorities are properly exercising jurisdiction in the case, and, if necessary, give an
English translation of the documents to the U.S. personnel concerned.
                                                        12
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
14. RELEASE FROM FOREIGN CUSTODY
    a. U.S. Military Personnel. U.S. military authorities will try to secure custody of accused military
personnel until foreign judicial proceedings are complete. When foreign authorities intend to exercise
jurisdiction, U.S. military authorities may give assurance that the accused will not be removed from the
host nation without giving due notice to the foreign authorities and adequate opportunity for them to
object. (Paragraph 17 covers in absentia trial procedures.)
        (1) In cases that fall under the UCMJ, Articles 9 through 11, U.S. military authorities may order
pretrial confinement of the accused in a U.S. facility pending disposition of the court-martial charges.
The probable exercise of foreign jurisdiction should not normally bar consideration of pretrial
confinement.
        (2) When the branch of Service and component-commander policy permits, and in the absence of
pending court-martial charges, U.S. military authorities of that Service may impose pretrial confinement
of military personnel accused if deemed necessary to ensure the accused’s presence at the trial or other
proceedings on foreign charges.
   b. Civilian Personnel and Family Members. U.S. authorities should try to secure the release of
U.S. civilian employees and Family members from foreign pretrial confinement. U.S. authorities—
        (1) Should inform the foreign authorities that the United States has no authority to restrain the
liberty of civilian employees and Family members or guarantee their presence at the trial.
       (2) May assure foreign authorities that the United States will not transfer the accused from the
host country at U.S. expense without prior approval of the host government. (Paragraph 17 covers in
absentia trial procedures.)
15. DANGER OF UNFAIR TRIAL
    a. Action by Local Commanders. If U.S. authorities cannot obtain release from custody or waiver
of jurisdiction and the accused may not receive a fair trial or fair treatment before, during, or after the
trial, the local commander will give the USCR all the facts of the case and recommendations. The local
commander will give a copy of this communication to the DCO and the component commander of the
accused.
    b. Action by U.S. Country Representative. After considering the country’s procedures, the USCR
will determine whether or not there is danger that the accused will not receive a fair trial or fair
treatment. If the USCR determines that there is danger of an unfair trial and further action at the local
level is ineffective or not feasible, the USCR will consult with the chief of the U.S. diplomatic mission
and report the facts and recommendations by electronic message to the DCO. This report will include
the informal views of the chief of the U.S. diplomatic mission and the USCR. The USCR will give
copies of this communication and follow-up reports on later developments to the chief of the U.S.
diplomatic mission, the unified commander, the DCO, and the component commander of the accused.
16. PRIOR JEOPARDY
   a. Prior Disposition by U.S. Authorities.
        (1) When U.S. authorities have exercised jurisdiction for an offense, the USCR will promptly
notify host-nation authorities of the U.S. action and ensure that he or she is notified if the host-nation
authorities subsequently attempt to exercise jurisdiction over U.S. personnel for the same offense. The
USCR will make every effort to prevent these attempts through local or diplomatic channels and will
report to the DCO the facts, including details of contacts with host-nation authorities.
                                                        13
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (2) To avoid diplomatic conflicts, unit commanders and trial counsel will verify before taking
punitive action that release of jurisdiction is obtained from foreign authorities in concurrent primary
foreign jurisdiction cases.

   b. Prior Trial by Foreign Authorities. U.S. military authorities will not, without the approval of the
component commander of the accused, institute disciplinary measures (other than nonjudicial
punishment) when the host country previously has exercised jurisdiction in the case. The determination
whether or not to impose nonjudicial punishment in such cases will be governed by separate Service
regulations. This policy does not bar appropriate administrative action (for example, suspension of
exchange, commissary, or driving privileges; reduction in grade; discharge from the Service).

17. TRIALS IN ABSENTIA

   a. Definition. A trial in absentia is a criminal proceeding before a foreign tribunal in which the
accused is not present.

   b. Policy. The provisions of the Joint Service Regulation, paragraph 1-7, apply to trials in absentia.
When the right to try in absentia is not waived by appropriate foreign authorities and permanent removal
of U.S. personnel from a foreign country before trial is a recognized customary procedure, “tacit
consent” of such foreign authorities must exist. The tacit consent in such instances is considered to have
been obtained after (1) through (3) below have been implemented:

       (1) Due notice of the proposed removal is given to the appropriate foreign authorities.

       (2) No objection by the foreign authorities is interposed after a reasonable time.

        (3) The accused agrees in writing to a trial in absentia and to the appointment of a representative
to receive service of process relating to the trial on behalf of the accused. The requirement for a written
agreement and appointment of a representative also will apply when the foreign country, while not
waiving trial in absentia, has expressly consented to removal.

    c. Procedures. The individual, whether or not in the military at the time of trial, will be informed of
the results of a trial in absentia. At the time of the trial, the individual will provide an address at which
he or she will be notified of the results of trial. The individual will be advised that he or she is
responsible for providing address changes to the official monitoring his or her case.

18. COUNSEL FEES AND RELATED ASSISTANCE

    a. General. The Joint Service Regulation, chapter 2, establishes criteria and assigns responsibility
for the provision of counsel and bail, the payment of court costs, and other necessary and reasonable
expenses associated with representation in foreign criminal and civil proceedings.

    b. Appointment of Approval Authority. The officers listed in (1) through (3) below have authority
to approve requests for the provision of counsel and bail or payment of expenses under the provisions of
the Joint Service Regulation, chapter 2. They also have authority to determine whether the criteria
prescribed by the Joint Service Regulation, paragraphs 2-4 and 2-5 (for criminal cases) and paragraph 2-
6 (for civil cases), are met for members of their respective branch of Service within the host nation
indicated.


                                                         14
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
        (1) Army. To obtain prompt and effective legal service according to the Joint Service
Regulation, paragraph 2-3b, authority to approve counsel fees in the USEUCOM area of operation is
assigned according to geographic area rather than to the chain of command. The approval authorities
listed in (a) through (e) below are responsible for budgeting and funding counsel fees in their respective
areas of authority without regard to the Army command to which the accused is assigned. Army
approval authorities will not request reimbursement of funds expended to provide counsel for Army
personnel from other commands without the express written consent of HQ USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-IL-
FL), Unit 29351, APO AE 09014-9351.

          (a) Austria, Denmark, Norway, Portugal (including the Azores), Spain, Switzerland, and the
United Kingdom: Staff Judge Advocate (SJA), 21st Theater Sustainment Command, Unit 23203, APO
AE 09263-3203. (For Austria and Switzerland, this authority has been delegated to the Officer in
Charge, Legal Service Center - Stuttgart, 21st Theater Sustainment Command, CMR 423, APO AE
09107.)

          (b) Belgium, France, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands: Judge Advocate, Northern Law
Center, 21st Theater Sustainment Command, Unit 21420, APO AE 09705-1420.

          (c) Cyprus, Greece, Israel, Italy, Morocco, Tunisia, and Turkey: SJA, United States Army
Southern European Task Force, Unit 31401, Box 5, APO AE 09630-0005.

          (d) Germany: With regard to cases arising in their legal liaison AOR, SJAs and (when so
designated by their SJA) officers in charge who act as local legal liaison authorities designated in AE
Regulation 550-56/USNAVEUR Instruction 5820.13F/USAFE Instruction 51-705, appendix B; or other
designees of the SJA.

          (e) Any other country in Africa, Europe, and the Middle East not included in (a) through (d)
above: Judge Advocate, USAREUR (AEAJA-IL-FL), Unit 29351, APO AE 09014-9351.

        (2) Navy.

           (a) Greece: Commander, Navy Region Europe, PSC 817, Box 108, FPO AE 09622-1018.

         (b) Iceland: Commander, Iceland Defense Force/Commander, Fleet Air Keflavik, PSC 1003,
Box 1, FPO AE 09728-0001.

         (c) Italy: Commanding Officer, Region Legal Service Office, Europe and Southwest Asia,
PSC 817, Box 8, FPO AE 09622-0008.

           (d) Spain: Commander, Navy Region Europe, PSC 817, Box 108, FPO AE 09622-0108.

           (e) United Kingdom: Commander, Navy Region Europe, PSC 817, Box 108, FPO AE 09622-
1018.

         (f) All other countries in the USEUCOM AOR not included in (a) through (e) above:
Commander, Navy Region Europe, PSC 817, Box 108, FPO AE 09622-0108. The Commander, Navy
Region Europe, may modify the exercise of approval authority in individual cases as appropriate.



                                                        15
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (3) Air Force.

           (a) The following agencies have approval authority for the countries indicated:

              1. Cyprus and Morocco: HQ USAFE/JAI, Unit 3050, Box 100, APO AE 09094-0100.

              2. Denmark and Norway: 426 ABS/JA, Unit 6655, APO AE 09706-6655.

              3. France and Luxembourg: 52 FW/JA Unit 3680, Box 205, APO AE 09126-0205.

              4. Portugal: 65 ABW/JA, Unit 7710, APO AE 09720-7710.

              5. Turkey: 39 ABW/JA, Unit 3090, Box 125, APO AE 09824-0125.

              6. United Kingdom: 3 AF-UK, Unit 4840, APO AE 09459-4840.

           (b) The USAFE SJA may delegate approval authority to other Air Force agencies not listed in
(a) above on a case-by-case basis, or may expand or restrict the scope of authority exercised by Air
Force agencies.

           (c) The USAFE SJA may authorize Air Force legal agencies to approve (but not disapprove)
the payment of counsel fees, bail, court costs, and other necessary and reasonable expenses. Notification
of approval of counsel fees, bail, court costs, or other expenses by Air Force legal agencies will be made
to the USAFE SJA. When a base SJA recommends denial of counsel fees, bail, court costs, or other
expenses, a package should be forwarded to the USAFE SJA for determination. The package must
include the recommendation and reasons for denial.

   c. Procedure.

        (1) Except in Germany, if the approval authority determines that the prescribed criteria have been
met, the approval authority will advise the USCR that the request is approved, authorize the USCR or an
officer who is the designee of the USCR to execute the necessary documents (for example, agreement
for hiring of counsel, bail agreement), and provide the USCR the appropriate fund cite.

       (2) If the USCR and the approval authority disagree, the DCO will make the final determination
in coordination with the Service component commander concerned.

        (3) Communications between the USCR and the approval authority under this paragraph will be
by electronic message. The DCO and the component commander of the Service of the accused will, as a
minimum, be included as information addressees. For cases involving Navy personnel, requests for
provisions of counsel fees, bail, and payment of expenses will be submitted by electronic message
directly to the approval authorities listed in b(2) above. The DCO, USCR, and the Commander, CNE-
C6F, will be included as information addressees.

       (4) For Army cases in Germany, the approval authorities or their designees are appointed
contracting officers and will consequently enter into a written contract with the selected counsel on
behalf of the United States.



                                                        16
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
SECTION III
TRIAL OBSERVERS

19. APPOINTMENT OF TRIAL OBSERVER
As the appointed representative of the DCO, the USCR will fulfill the responsibilities of the DCO
according to the Joint Service Regulation, paragraph 1-5a. The USCR will ensure, in coordination with
component commanders and the chief of the U.S. diplomatic mission, that suitable procedures are
established for the appointment of persons qualified to serve as U.S. trial observers at criminal
proceedings before courts of the host country. In criminal proceedings involving minor offenses, the trial
observer need not be a lawyer. In addition, the USCR may waive the requirement that a trial observer be
a lawyer in cases involving trials to be held in absentia.

20. FUNCTION OF TRIAL OBSERVER
The trial observer will comply with the Joint Service Regulation, paragraph 1-5, and will act as
prescribed in subparagraphs a through d below unless instructed otherwise.

    a. Attend all hearings of trial and appellate proceedings involving U.S. personnel unless the USCR or
the appropriate local legal liaison authority (AE Reg 550-56/USNAVEUR Inst 5820.13F/USAFE Inst
51-705, applicable only in Germany) determines that the case involves a minor offense and a trial
observer is not required.

   b. Take appropriate measures to advise the defense counsel of the rights of the accused under
applicable treaties and agreements.

    c. Help identify and secure witnesses or evidence on request of a foreign court or its officers. The
trial observer will not testify in connection with issues of fact or law before the court.

   d. Prepare and submit a report of the proceedings (para 25).

21. UNFAIR TRIAL

    a. If a trial observer concludes that an accused has not received a fair trial, the USCR will evaluate
the conclusion and act accordingly if further action at local or intermediate level is needed. After
consulting with the chief of the diplomatic mission, if the USCR determines that the circumstances of
the case warrant referral to the minister of justice or other appropriate representative of the host nation,
the USCR will coordinate with the diplomatic mission without delay and make appropriate
representation.

    b. If representation proves unsuccessful and the matter is important enough that the DCO should
initiate action at the diplomatic level (U.S. Senate Resolution of 15 July 1953), the USCR will report the
facts and details of contacts with the foreign authorities to the DCO for necessary action according to the
Joint Service Regulation, paragraph 1-5e. The DCO will submit his or her recommendations on
appropriate action to rectify the rights or interests of the accused to the Office of the Secretary of
Defense through the unified commander and the judge advocate general of the Service concerned.
Copies will be sent to the component commander of the accused, the country liaison agent, and the
immediate commanding officer of the accused.




                                                         17
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
SECTION IV
UNITED STATES PERSONNEL CONFINED IN FOREIGN PENAL INSTITUTIONS

22. DUTIES OF UNITED STATES COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE
USCRs will fulfill the responsibilities and duties of the DCO according to the Joint Service Regulation,
chapter 3.

23. VISITATION OF UNITED STATES PERSONNEL CONFINED IN FOREIGN PENAL
INSTITUTIONS

    a. Within 30 days after initial confinement in a foreign penal institution (including pretrial and post-
trial confinement facilities and medical facilities), U.S. personnel will be visited by a judge advocate (or
legal officer) and a chaplain. At least once every 30 days after the initial visit, U.S. personnel confined
in foreign penal institutions will be visited by a command representative and a chaplain.

   b. Not less than 30 days after initial confinement and at least once every 90 days after initial
confinement, U.S. personnel confined in a foreign penal institution will be visited by a medical officer,
physician’s assistant, or nursing personnel.

    c. Normally, personnel making visits according to this paragraph will be of the same Service as the
confined person. When the confinee is a member of a Service different than that of the USCR, personnel
for the visiting team will be provided by the country liaison agent of the Service of the accused.

    d. Requests for exceptions to the composition of the visitation teams must be made to, and may be
approved only by, the DCO. If the DCO has trouble obtaining a visitation team from another Service,
the DCO may request assistance from the confinee’s respective component commander, who will direct
that the visitation team be provided by an appropriate commander of the component commander’s
Service.

SECTION V
REPORTS ON THE EXERCISE OF FOREIGN CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

24. ANNUAL REPORTS (EXERCISE OF CRIMINAL JURISDICTION BY FOREIGN
TRIBUNALS OVER UNITED STATES PERSONNEL)
The USCR (except as provided in appendix E) will prepare and submit through the DCO to the judge
advocate general of the Service concerned the annual report required by the Joint Service Regulation,
paragraphs 4-3a and 4-4, covering the reporting period from 1 December through 30 November of each
year. Appendix E provides detailed instructions concerning preparation of the report. Army reports will
be submitted in duplicate through the Army component commander and will be dispatched by the
preparing agency not later than 5 workdays after 30 November each year. Navy reports will be
dispatched directly to the Judge Advocate General of the Navy not later than 15 days after 30 November
each year. Air Force reports will be submitted according to appendix F. A copy of each report will be
provided to the DCO and to the Commander, USEUCOM (ECJA), Unit 30400, APO AE 09131-0400.
The component commander (unless the component commander is also the DCO) will be provided a
copy of the report pertaining to the Service of the component commander.




                                                        18
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
25. TRIAL OBSERVER REPORTS AND TRIAL OBSERVER REPORTS ON APPEAL

    a. When Required. The trial observer will prepare a formal report for trials and appellate
proceedings covered by this publication (as required by the Joint Service Reg, paras 1-8b through d, 4-
3c, and 4-6), except for cases involving minor offenses. In cases involving minor offenses, the trial
observer will prepare a formal report only if he or she determines that the accused did not receive a fair
trial or fair treatment. The trial observer will prepare and dispatch DD Form 1936 (para 29b) for Army
and Navy personnel. The trial observer will complete and submit the report within 14 days after the
conclusion of the trial or appellate proceeding. The trial observer will not delay the report because of the
possibility of subsequent proceedings (for example, new trial, rehearing, appeal on the merits or on the
sentence).

    b. Format. The report will be in the format prescribed by the Joint Service Regulation, paragraph 4-
6a (trial observer report) or paragraph 4-6b (trial observer report on appeal), and prepared on 8½- by 11-
inch paper on one side only. When a series of hearings is held, each succeeding report should use the
specified format, with appropriate notations under the paragraph headings if no change has occurred
since the previous report.

   c. Content.

       (1) The trial observer report must include a factual description or summary of the criminal
proceedings. The trial observer should prepare the report to permit an informed judgment to be made
regarding (a) and (b) below:

           (a) Whether there was failure to comply with the procedural safeguards secured by a pertinent
SOFA.

           (b) Whether the accused received a fair trial.

        (2) The report will specify the conclusions of the trial observer with respect to the requirement in
(1)(a) above and will state in detail the basis for those conclusions. The report will not include the trial
observer’s conclusions with respect to (1)(b) above. The trial observer will indicate his or her conclusion
as to the fairness of the trial in a separate memorandum forwarding the report to the USCR (d below). A
trial will not be deemed unfair solely because its conduct was not identical to trials held in the United
States. These reports need not be classified but will be marked Personal Data—Privacy Act of 1974 (5
USC 552a). If the report includes classified information, the trial observer will classify and handle the
report accordingly. Reports in cases that were not observed by a U.S. trial observer will be based on the
best information available and prepared by an SJA. SJAs will review all trial observer reports and will
approve or disapprove the conclusions of the trial observer included in the reports.

    d. Distribution. The trial observer will submit the report and required additional copies to the USCR
under a separate forwarding memorandum. The USCR will provide six copies of a memorandum of
endorsement for the report to the DCO. The DCO, by separate transmittal memorandum to the judge
advocate general of the Service concerned, will approve or disapprove the report and make conclusions
as to compliance with procedural safeguards and fairness of the trial (Joint Service Reg, para 1-5e). The
DCO will provide information copies of the report and the transmittal memorandum to the chief of the
U.S. diplomatic mission; the Commander, USEUCOM (ECJA), Unit 30400, APO AE 09131-0400; the
component commander of the accused; the country liaison agent; and the immediate commander of the
accused. The trial observer’s memorandum to the USCR will not be included.
                                                        19
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
26. CONFINEMENT REPORTS (UNITED STATES PERSONNEL IN POST-TRIAL
CONFINEMENT IN FOREIGN PENAL INSTITUTIONS)
   a. USCRs (except as provided in app F for Air Force personnel) will prepare and submit semiannual
confinement reports on November 30 and May 31. Reports must include a separate list of U.S. personnel
imprisoned and released during the reporting period as required by the Joint Service Regulation,
paragraphs 4-3b and 4-5, and other pertinent Service directives.
    b. The preparing agency will transmit the report by separate messages to the judge advocates general
of the Services of the personnel covered in the report. Information copies of the report will be sent to the
DCO, component commanders of the prisoners concerned, the unified commander, and the chief of the
U.S. diplomatic mission. Negative reports are required.

27. VISITATION REPORTS (VISITS TO UNITED STATES PERSONNEL CONFINED IN
FOREIGN PENAL INSTITUTIONS)
    a. When a visitation team visits U.S. personnel confined in a foreign penal institution, the head of the
visitation team will prepare a report as prescribed by the Joint Service Regulation, paragraphs 4-3d and
4-7, and other pertinent Service directives. If a deficiency is noted that endangers the physical, mental,
or moral well-being of a prisoner or group of prisoners, the team will make a follow-up visit within 15
days after noting the deficiency. The team will continue to make follow-up visits at least every 15 days
after the initial follow-up visit until the deficiency is corrected.
    b. Except as provided in appendix F, four copies of the report will be submitted to the USCR. The
USCR will forward the report in duplicate to the DCO with a report of action taken to correct adverse
conditions. The USCR will provide an information copy of the report and the corrective action taken to
the component commander of the prisoner.
    c. If the report lists conditions that are in violation of international agreements, if the treatment of
U.S. personnel is unfair, or if U.S. personnel are not afforded substantially the same rights, privileges,
and protection as personnel confined in U.S. military facilities, the DCO will send copies of the report to
the chief of the diplomatic mission, the unified commander, and the judge advocate general of the
Service concerned. If U.S. personnel are not afforded substantially the same rights, privileges, and
protection as personnel confined in U.S. military facilities, the preparing agency will submit three
additional copies of the report.

28. SERIOUS OR UNUSUAL INCIDENT REPORTS
Country liaison agents (except as provided in app F) will prepare and submit the report required by the
Joint Service Regulation, paragraph 4-8. The preparing command or activity will use the format
prescribed by the reporting directive of its own Service. As a minimum, the following agencies will be
information addressees of the message report:
   a. The judge advocate general of the Service of the individual concerned (if not the action
addressee).
   b. The Commander, USEUCOM (ECJA).
   c. The component commander of the individual concerned.
   d. The DCO.
   e. The USCR (if not the preparing agency).
                                                        20
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   f. The country liaison agent for the Service of the individual concerned (if not the preparing agency).

   g. For Navy personnel, the chain of command.

29. INDIVIDUAL CASE REPORTS (EXERCISE OF CRIMINAL JURISDICTION BY
FOREIGN TRIBUNALS OVER UNITED STATES PERSONNEL)

   a. General.

        (1) For Army and Navy personnel, the USCR will prepare and submit the report required by the
Joint Service Regulation, paragraph 4-9. For Army personnel, the report will be submitted for incidents
for which a serious or unusual incident report must be submitted according to the Joint Service
Regulation, paragraph 4-9, even when the incident would be considered minor within the meaning of
this regulation (for example, the report will be submitted when an individual has been placed in pretrial
confinement).

       (2) For Air Force personnel, the USCR will prepare and submit the report required by the Joint
Service Regulation, paragraph 4-9, unless the USCR has already reported the outcome of the case
according to the Joint Service Regulation, paragraph 4-6 or 4-8. Air Force offices reporting on Air Force
personnel will follow the procedures in the Joint Service Regulation, paragraph 4-6 or 4-8, as
appropriate, rather than the procedures in the Joint Service Regulation, paragraph 4-9.

        (3) The initial report will be submitted as soon as the information required by parts I and II of the
report is available, but no later than 10 days after the incident. Supplemental reports will be submitted as
soon as the information required by parts III, IV, and V of the report become available. The report will
be submitted directly to the judge advocate general of the Service of the individual concerned, with
information copies to the DCO, the component commander of the individual concerned, the USCR (if
not the preparing agency), and the country liaison agent for the Service of the individual concerned (if
not the preparing agency).

    b. In Place of the Trial Observer Report (for Army and Navy Personnel). For trials of minor
offenses in which the observer concluded that the accused received a fair trial and fair treatment, a trial
observer report or trial observer report on appeal need not be submitted. In place of one of these reports,
the trial observer will prepare and submit DD Form 1936 reporting on the result of trial (para 25).

SECTION VI
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTIONS AND COUNTRY LAW STUDIES

30. UNITED STATES COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTIONS

   a. Each USCR designated in appendix C has the authority to publish or modify instructions
governing the procedural implementation of (1) or (2) below:

       (1) The NATO SOFA and supplementary agreements to the NATO SOFA.

        (2) Any SOFA-type agreement in effect within the USCR’s country. Such instructions are
applicable to all U.S. personnel stationed in, on temporary duty in, or passing through the respective
country. Commanders will comply with USCR instructions in effect in any country where a member of
their command is involved in an incident.
                                                        21
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    b. Each USCR has the option to publish its instructions as an appendix to this publication.
Incorporating USCR instructions in this publication is not a prerequisite to their enforceability or legal
effectiveness. Accordingly, publishing USCR instructions in this publication is not essential. USCR
instructions currently in effect in several NATO and non-NATO countries are identified in appendixes G
through Q. AE Regulation 550-56/USNAVEUR Instruction 5820.13F/USAFE Instruction 51-705 is the
USCR’s instruction for Germany.

    c. USCRs are encouraged to send a copy of each USCR instruction or change as soon as possible
after publication to the Office of the Judge Advocate, HQ USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-IL-I), Unit 29351,
APO AE 09403-9351, for inclusion as an appendix to this publication. USCRs must send copies to the
chief of the U.S. diplomatic mission in the country concerned; the judge advocate general of each
Service; the Commander, USEUCOM (ECJA), Unit 30400, APO AE 09131-0400; each component
commander; and each USCR in appendix C.

31. COUNTRY LAW STUDY

    a. Content. The USCR will prepare and maintain a current study of the laws and legal procedures in
effect for the country for which the USCR is responsible. This study will be a general examination of the
substantive and procedural criminal law of the country and will be prepared in accordance with pertinent
Service directives. The study will be updated whenever significant changes in the law or legal
procedures of the country have occurred, or, as a minimum, every 10 years.

   b. Distribution. The USCR will distribute copies of the country law study (a above) to—

       (1) The DCO. The USCR will send enough copies so that the study may be forwarded to the
judge advocate general of each Service, the unified commander, and the other component commanders.

       (2) Each general court-martial convening authority in the country concerned (app R).

       (3) The chief of the U.S. diplomatic mission in the country concerned.




                                                        22
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX A
PERTINENT PROVISIONS OF THE NATO STATUS OF FORCES AGREEMENT

The following provisions extracted from the NATO Status of Forces Agreement (NATO SOFA) pertain
to the exercise of criminal jurisdiction by foreign courts over U.S. personnel:

1. The following is an excerpt from Article I, NATO SOFA:

“1. In this Agreement the expression—

    (a) “force” means the personnel belonging to the land, sea, or air armed services of one Contracting
Party when in the territory of another Contracting Party in the North Atlantic Treaty area in connection
with their official duties, provided that the two Contracting Parties concerned may agree that certain
individuals, units, or formations shall not be regarded as constituting or included in a “force” for the
purpose of the present Agreement;

   (b) “civilian component” means the civilian personnel accompanying a force of a Contracting Party
who are in the employ of an armed service of that Contracting Party, and who are not stateless
persons, nor nationals of any State which is not a Party to the North Atlantic Treaty, nor nationals of,
nor ordinarily resident in, the State in which the force is located;

   (c) “dependent” means the spouse of a member of a force or of a civilian component, or a child of
such member depending on him or her for support.

* * *”

2. The following is an excerpt from Article VII, NATO SOFA:

“1. Subject to the provisions of this Article,

   (a) the military authorities of the sending State shall have the right to exercise within the receiving
State all criminal and disciplinary jurisdiction conferred on them by the law of the sending State over all
persons subject to the military law of that State;

     (b) the authorities of the receiving State shall have jurisdiction over the members of a force or
civilian component and their dependents with respect to offenses committed within the territory of the
receiving State and punishable by the law of that State.

2.

     (a) The military authorities of the sending State shall have the right to exercise exclusive jurisdiction
over persons subject to the military law of that State with respect to offenses, including offenses relating
to its security, punishable by the law of the sending State, but not by the law of the receiving State.

    (b) The authorities of the receiving State shall have the right to exercise exclusive jurisdiction over
members of a force or civilian component and their dependents with respect to offenses, including
offenses relating to the security of that State, punishable by its law but not by the law of the sending
State.

   (c) For the purposes of this paragraph and of paragraph 3 of this Article a security offense against a
State shall include

         (i) treason against the State;
                                                          23
                            AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
        (ii) sabotage, espionage or violation of any law relating to official secrets of that State, or secrets
relating to the national defense of that State.

3. In cases where the right to exercise jurisdiction is concurrent the following rules shall apply:

   (a) The military authorities of the sending State shall have the primary right to exercise jurisdiction
over a member of a force or of a civilian component in relation to

      (i) offenses solely against the property or security of that State, or offenses solely against the
person or property of another member of the force or civilian component of that State or of a
dependent;

       (ii) offenses arising out of any act or omission done in the performance of official duty.

    (b) In the case of any other offense the authorities of the receiving State shall have the primary right
to exercise jurisdiction.

    (c) If the State having the primary right decides not to exercise jurisdiction, it shall notify the
authorities of the other State as soon as practicable. The authorities of the State having the primary
right shall give sympathetic consideration to a request from the authorities of the other State for a
waiver of its right in cases where that other State considers such waiver to be of particular importance.

4. The foregoing provisions of this Article shall not imply any right for the military authorities of the
sending State to exercise jurisdiction over persons who are nationals of or ordinarily resident in the
receiving State, unless they are members of the force of the sending State.

5.

    (a) The authorities of the receiving and sending States shall assist each other in the arrest of
members of a force or civilian component or their dependents in the territory of the receiving State and
in handing them over to the authority which is to exercise jurisdiction in accordance with the above
provisions.

   (b) The authorities of the receiving State shall notify promptly the military authorities of the sending
State of the arrest of any member of a force or civilian component or a dependent.

    (c) The custody of an accused member of a force or civilian component over whom the receiving
State is to exercise jurisdiction shall, if he is in the hands of the sending State, remain with that State
until he is charged by the receiving State.

6.

     (a) The authorities of the receiving and sending States shall assist each other in the carrying out of
all necessary investigations into offenses, and in the collection and production of evidence, including
the seizure and, in proper cases, the handing over of objects connected with an offense. The handing
over of such objects may, however, be made subject to their return within the time specified by the
authority delivering them.

    (b) The authorities of the Contracting Parties shall notify one another of the disposition of all cases
in which there are concurrent rights to exercise jurisdiction.




                                                         24
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
7.

   (a) A death sentence shall not be carried out in the receiving State by the authorities of the sending
State if the legislation of the receiving State does not provide for such punishment in a similar case.

    (b) The authorities of the receiving State shall give sympathetic consideration to a request from the
authorities of the sending State for assistance in carrying out a sentence of imprisonment pronounced
by the authorities of the sending State under the provision of this Article within the territory of the
receiving State.

8. Where an accused has been tried in accordance with the provisions of this Article by the authorities
of one Contracting Party and has been acquitted, or has been convicted and is serving, or has served,
his sentence or has been pardoned, he may not be tried again for the same offense within the same
territory by the authorities of another Contracting Party. However, nothing in this paragraph shall
prevent the military authorities of the sending State from trying a member of its force for any violation of
rules of discipline arising from an act or omission which constituted an offense for which he was tried by
the authorities of another Contracting Party.

9. Whenever a member of a force or civilian component or a dependent is prosecuted under the
jurisdiction of a receiving State he shall be entitled—

     (a) to a prompt and speedy trial;

     (b) to be informed, in advance of trial, of the specific charge or charges made against him;

     (c) to be confronted with the witnesses against him;

    (d) to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor, if they are within the jurisdiction
of the receiving State;

   (e) to have legal representation of his own for his defense or to have free or assisted legal
representation under the conditions prevailing for the time being in the receiving State;

     (f) if he considers it necessary, to have the services of a competent interpreter; and

    (g) to communicate with a representative of the Government of the sending State and, when the
rules of the court permit, to have such a representative present at this trial.

* * *”




                                                         25
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX B
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEFENSE ATTACHÉS AS RELATED TO FOREIGN
CRIMINAL JURISDICTION
This appendix is a reproduction of Defense Intelligence Agency Manual 100-1, volume I.
1. REFERENCES
   a. Defense Intelligence Agency Manual 100-1, Volume I, chapter 2, Duties and Responsibilities of
Defense Attaches as Related to Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction.
   b. DOD Directive 5525.1, Status of Forces Policies and Information.
   c. Joint Regulation, AR 27-50/SECNAVINST 5820.4G/AFJI 51-706, Status of Forces Policies,
Procedures, and Information.
2. DESIGNATED COMMANDING OFFICER (DCO)
In all countries where U.S. Forces are not regularly stationed and to the extent contrary provision has not
been made by individual services or unified commanders, defense attachés (DATTs) will perform the
duties of the DCO in connection with the exercising of criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel by
foreign authorities. For this purpose, the presence of a military assistance advisory group or military
mission will not constitute regularly stationed U.S. Forces.
3. U.S. COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE
When a unified commander has appointed a DCO who is not physically present in the country
concerned, the appointed DCO may keep the position of designated commanding officer, but may
appoint the DATT as U.S. country representative to act as the single POC for the services with the
respective U.S. diplomatic mission and with the national authorities of the country regarding the
exercise of foreign criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel.
4. RESPONSIBILITIES
   a. The DATT will ensure that the references cited above, the applicable service regulations and
forms listed therein and unified command directives applicable to DATT or DCO or U.S. country
representative are maintained on a current basis.
   b. DATT or DCO or U.S. country representative will submit the reports required by reference 1c
above. The DIA will be provided a copy of all reports.
5. COUNTRY LAW STUDIES
Country law studies are ordinarily required for those countries where U.S. Forces are regularly stationed
or are present on leave in significant numbers. When a DATT or DCO believes a country law study is
required, his proposal should be coordinated with the mission consular before forwarding to the Staff
Judge Advocate of the appropriate unified command for evaluation.
6. COUNSEL FEES AND OTHER EXPENSES IN FOREIGN TRIBUNALS
Information on payment of counsel fees, court costs, bail, and other items of expense incident to
representation of U.S. military personnel tried before foreign tribunals is provided in the Joint Service
Regulation. The individual should be advised of his or her rights to counsel at Government expense and
immediate action taken to notify the responsible military commander of such requirements. The DATT
should cooperate and offer every reasonable form of assistance including acting as liaison between
mission consular and service representatives.

                                                        26
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
7. WAIVERS OF LOCAL JURISDICTION
In countries where the DATT is DCO or U.S. country representative, a Status of Forces Agreement
seldom exists. In some cases, however, an agreement may be in place which grants military and civilian
personnel of the United States Department of Defense present in that country in connection with their
official duties, or in relation to a specific exercise, operation, training mission, or other activity,
privileges and immunities equivalent to those g ranted the administrative and technical staff of the
United States Embassy under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of April 18, 1961. These
agreements, which may be through an exchange of diplomatic notes, are sometimes referred to as A&T
Agreements. If an individual is covered by such an agreement, the individual may not be detained,
confined, or prosecuted by the authorities of the host nation. Where such an agreement is not in place, or
does not cover the individual, the DATT should obtain through diplomatic channels waivers of local
jurisdiction over offenses allegedly committed by U.S. personnel. Settlement may be expedited by
immediate payment of claims. The DATT should contact the nearest military installation or major
command headquarters to obtain assistance on claims and other matters arising from the incident.

8. TRIAL OBSERVERS
Legally trained U.S. representatives will attend foreign trials of U.S. personnel. An individual who is not
a lawyer may attend the trials in minor cases. The DATT, in coordination with the mission consular,
makes arrangements for attendance of observers from nearby major commands through special
arrangement with the host nation authorities.

9. CONFINEMENT OF PERSONNEL
The DATT or DCO is responsible for safeguarding the interests of U.S. personnel confined in foreign
penal institutions. The DATT will ensure that confined U.S. military personnel are given the same
treatment, privileges, and protection as personnel confined in U.S. military facilities (for example, legal
assistance, visitation rights, medical attention, food, bedding, clothing, other health and comfort items).
Confined individuals will be visited at least every 30 days by the DCO or his representative.

10. ASSISTANCE
DATT and DCO are encouraged to make maximum use of experienced mission consular service
personnel in handling criminal cases involving U.S. military personnel. Interpretation of procedures
should be referred to the legal office of the nearest overseas command of the service of the individual or
to the unified commander. Any problems may be referred directly to the Judge Advocate General of the
service concerned when the DATT feels that such action would be in the best interest of the individual
or the U.S. Government.




                                                        27
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX C
DESIGNATED COMMANDING OFFICERS, U.S. COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVES, AND
COUNTRY LIAISON AGENCIES IN USEUCOM

                                      COUNTRY LIAISON AGENTS
               Designated
              Commanding           U.S. Country             USAFE               USAREUR             CNE-C6F
  Country       Officer           Representative         Liaison Agent         Liaison Agent      Liaison Agent
Austria     CG, USAREUR/7A      Army Attaché
            APO AE 09014        USDAO Vienna
                                Department of State
                                Pouch Room
                                Washington, DC
                                20520
Belgium     CG, USAREUR/7A      Commander, USAG       52 FW/JA                                  Naval Attaché
            APO AE 09014        Benelux (NSSG)        Unit 3680, Box 205                        American Embassy
                                APO AE 09708          APO AE 09126                              Brussels
                                                                                                APO AE 09724
Bulgaria    CG, USAREUR/7A      TBD                   TBD
            APO AE 09014
Cyprus      COMUSAFE            U.S. Defense          HQ USAFE/JAI          Army Attaché
            APO AE 09094        Attaché               Unit 3050, Box 100    American Embassy
                                American Embassy      APO AE 09094          Nicosia
                                Nicosia, Cyprus                             APO AE 09530
                                FPO AE 09836
Czech       CG, USAREUR/7A      TBD                   TBD
Republic    APO AE 09014
Denmark     COMUSAFE            Defense and           Air Force Attaché     Army Attaché        Defense and
            APO AE 09094        ALUSNA                American Embassy      American Embassy    ALUSNA
                                American Embassy      Copenhagen            Copenhagen          American Embassy
                                Copenhagen            APO AE 09716          APO AE 09716        Copenhagen
                                APO AE 09716                                                    APO AE 09716
France      COMUSAFE            Commander             52 FW/JA              U.S. Defense        Naval Attaché
            APO AE 09094        52d Fighter Wing      Unit 3680, Box 205    Attaché Office      American Embassy
                                APO AE 09126          APO AE 09126          American Embassy    Paris
                                                                            Paris               APO AE 09777
                                                                            PSC 116, Box B-
                                                                            210, APO AE
                                                                            09777-5000
Germany     CG, USAREUR/7A      (functions performed HQ USAFE/JAI                               Commander
            APO AE 09014        by DCO)              Unit 3050, Box 100                         Military Sealift
                                                     APO AE 09094                               Command Office
                                                                                                Northern Europe
                                                                                                APO AE 09069
Greece      Director, NEPRS     Chief                 Legal Advisor         Legal Advisor       Commanding
            CNE-C6F             Office of Defense     Office of Defense     Office of Defense   Officer
            FPO AE 09622        Cooperation           Cooperation           Cooperation         Naval Support
            (Naples, Italy)     PSC 108, Box 42       PSC 108, Box 42       PSC 108, Box 42     Activity Souda Bay
                                APO AE 09842          APO AE 09842          APO AE 09842        PSC 814, Box 1
                                                                                                FPO AE 09865
Iceland     Director, NEPRS     Commander                                                       Commander
            CNE-C6F             Iceland Defense                                                 Fleet Air Keflavik,
            FPO AE 09622        Force                                                           PSC 1003, Box 1
            (Naples, Italy)     FPO AE 09728                                                    FPO AE 09728
Israel      Director, NEPRS     Naval Attaché         HQ USAFE/JAI          Army Attaché        Naval Attaché
            CNE-C6F             American Embassy      Unit 3050, Box 100    American Embassy    American Embassy
            FPO AE 09622        Tel Aviv              APO AE 09094          Tel Aviv            Tel Aviv
            (Naples, Italy)     APO AE 09830                                APO AE 09830        APO AE 09830


                                                       28
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                                         COUNTRY LIAISON AGENTS
                  Designated
                 Commanding           U.S. Country             USAFE               USAREUR             CNE-C6F
  Country          Officer           Representative         Liaison Agent         Liaison Agent      Liaison Agent
Italy          Director, NEPRS     Commanding             31 FW/JA             Commander           Commanding
               CNE-C6F             Officer                Unit 6140, Box 115   USASETAF            Officer Region Legal
               FPO AE 09622        Region Legal Office    APO AE 09604-        APO AE 09630        Service
               (Naples, Italy)     FPO AE 09622           0115                                     Office
                                                                                                   FPO AE 09622
Luxembourg     COMUSAFE            Commander              52 FW/JA             Commander           Commander
               APO AE 09094        52d Fighter Wing       Unit 3680, Box 205   52d Fighter Wing    52d Fighter Wing
                                   APO AE 09126           APO AE 09126         APO AE 09126        APO AE 09126
Morocco        COMUSAFE            USDAO Rabat            HQ USAFE/JAI         Army Attaché        Naval Attaché
               APO AE 09094        Morocco                Unit 3050, Box 100   American Embassy    American Embassy
                                   PSC 74, Box 016        APO AE 09094         Rabat               Rabat
                                   APO AE 09718                                APO AE 09718        APO AE 09718
Mozambique     Director, NEPRS     USDAO Maputo
               CNE-C6F             2330 Maputo Place
               FPO AE 09622        Washington, DC
               (Naples, Italy)     20521-2330
Netherlands    CG, USAREUR/7A      Commander              52 FW/JA                                 Naval Attaché
               APO AE 09014        USAG Schinnen          Unit 3680, Box 205                       American Embassy
                                   Unit 21602             APO AE 09126                             The Hague
                                   APO AE 09703                                                    APO AE 09715
Norway         COMUSAFE            Senior U.S. Military   426 ABS/JA
               APO AE 09094        Officer                Unit 6655
                                   Joint Warfare Centre   APO AE 09706
                                   APO AE 09706-
                                   6650
                                   (Stavanger, Norway)
Poland         CG, USAREUR/7A      TBD                    TBD
               APO AE 09014
Portugal       COMUSAFE            Commander              65 ABW/JA            Chief, MAAG         Commanding
               APO AE 09094        65 Air Base Wing       Unit 7710            American Embassy    Officer
                                   APO AE 09720           APO AE 09720         Lisbon              Naval Station
                                                                               APO AE 09647        Rota
                                                                                                   FPO AE 09645
Romania        CG, USAREUR/7A      TBD                    TBD
               APO AE 09014
South Africa   Director, NEPRS     USDAO-Pretoria
               CNE-C6F             Department of State
               FPO AE 09622        Washington, DC
               (Naples, Italy)     20521-9300
Spain          Director, NEPRS     Office of Defense      HQ USAFE/JAI         Chief               Commanding
               CNE-C6F             Cooperation            Unit 3050, Box 100   Office of Defense   Officer
               FPO AE 09622        Spain                  APO AE 09094         Cooperation         Naval Station
               (Naples, Italy)     APO AE 09642                                APO AE 09642        Rota
                                                                                                   FPO AE 09645
Switzerland    CG, USAREUR/7A      Army Attaché
               APO AE 09014        USDAO Bern
                                   Department of State
                                   Pouch Room
                                   Washington, DC
                                   20520
Tanzania       Director, NEPRS     USDAO Dar es
               CNE-C6F             Salaam
               FPO AE 09622        Department of State
               (Naples, Italy)     Pouch Room
                                   Washington, DC
                                   20521-2140

                                                           29
                            AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                                     COUNTRY LIAISON AGENTS
               Designated
              Commanding           U.S. Country             USAFE               USAREUR               CNE-C6F
  Country       Officer           Representative         Liaison Agent         Liaison Agent        Liaison Agent
Tunisia     Director, NEPRS     Chief                                       Army Attaché
            CNE-C6F             USDAO Tunis                                 USDAO Tunis
            FPO AE 09622        Department of State                         Department of State
            (Naples, Italy)     Pouch Room                                  Pouch Room
                                Washington, DC                              Washington, DC
                                20520                                       20520
Turkey      COMUSAFE            Chief                 39 ABW/JA             Chief                 Chief
            APO AE 09094        Office of Defense     Unit 7090, Box 125    Army Element          Naval Element
                                Cooperation           APO AE 09824          Office of Defense     Office of Defense
                                APO AE 09822                                Cooperation           Cooperation
                                                                            APO AE 09822          APO AE 09822
United      COMUSAFE            3 AF/CV               3 AF-UK/JA            Commander             Commander
Kingdom     APO AE 09094        Unit 4840             Unit 4840             Burtonwood Army       Naval Activities
                                APO AE 09459-         APO AE 09459-         Depot                 United Kingdom
                                4840                  4840                  APO AE 09448          FPO AE 09499
Zimbabwe                        USDAO Harare
                                Department of State
                                2180 Harare Place
                                Washington, DC
                                20521-2180




                                                       30
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX D
SAMPLE AE FORM 550-50A

Figure D-1 shows the front and back of a sample completed AE Form 550-50A.




                              Figure D-1. Sample AE Form 550-50A
                                                     31
                       AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
Figure D-1. Sample AE Form 550-50A—Continued




                              32
AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX E
GUIDE FOR PREPARING ANNUAL REPORTS USING DD FORM 838

E-1. FORMAT
Annual reports will be prepared on DD Form 838. This appendix provides general instructions for
completing this report. Figure E-1 is a sample DD Form 838. In the instructions in this appendix, the
first designation will be for the DD Form 838 block number, followed by the card number. For example,
(14/15/16)(1) indicates blocks 14, 15, and 16 of card 1 of DD Form 838.

E-2. GENERAL

    a. Cases to be Reported. DD Form 838 will show the status and disposition of cases processed
during the reporting period, including holdover cases from a previous annual reporting period. A
holdover case is one that arose in a previous reporting period but was not finally adjudicated (trial was
pending or appellate rights had not been exhausted or expired). Blocks (17/18/19)(1), (20/21/22)(1), or
(23/24/25)(1) will include cases that arose in a previous reporting period and were finally adjudicated in
the current reporting period. Army legal offices in Germany will enter information about cases into the
Army Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction Database.

   b. Interpretation of “Case.”
       (1) A case is an alleged violation of the laws of the country concerned that, under applicable
international agreements, is not subject to the exclusive or primary U.S. jurisdiction.
      (2) Each individual accused constitutes a case (for example, if three persons are involved in the
same offense of larceny, this constitutes three cases).
       (3) When one accused individual commits several offenses, the most serious offense is the case.

    c. No Action on Waiver Request. When no action has been taken on a request for waiver of
jurisdiction and trial proceedings by a foreign court have not commenced during the reporting period, no
case has been processed within the meaning of this report, and no entry should be made in any block.

E-3. CASES IN THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE RECEIVING STATE (BLOCK
(6/7/8)(1))
Minor traffic offenses and civilian and dependent cases are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the
receiving state and will be reported in block (6/7/8)(1). Local offenses (for example, failure to have
receiving state game, pet, radio, or television licenses) normally are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction
of the receiving state and will be shown in block (6/7/8)(1).

E-4. EXCLUSIVE HOST-COUNTRY JURISDICTION CASES RELEASED TO THE UNITED
STATES FOR ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION (BLOCK (9/10/11)(1))
Exclusive jurisdiction cases that the receiving state authorities permit the United States to handle
administratively will be reported in blocks (6/7/8)(1) and (9/10/11)(1).

E-5. PRIMARY FOREIGN JURISDICTION CASES (BLOCK (12)(1))
Cases in which the right to exercise jurisdiction is concurrent but in which the receiving state has the
primary right to exercise such jurisdiction should be shown in block (12)(1). Examples of such cases are
reckless driving, drunken driving, and negligent homicide when the offender is a member of the Armed
Forces.
                                                        33
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
E-6. ACTION TO BE TREATED AS WAIVER (BLOCK (13)(1))
If the receiving state has by formal or informal agreement or practice generally waived its primary right
to exercise jurisdiction, and has not withdrawn such waiver, the case will be reported as a waiver of
jurisdiction and shown in blocks (12)(1) and (13)(1). If receiving state authorities advise that no action
under foreign laws is proposed for any reason other than lack of evidence, the case will be treated as a
waiver and reported in blocks (12)(1) and (13)(1).

E-7. TOTAL NEW CASES RESERVED BY FOREIGN JURISDICTION (BLOCK (14/15/16)(1))
Any trial by a foreign court constitutes a reservation of foreign jurisdiction. If the case was not
previously reported (is not a holdover case), it will be reported in blocks (14/15/16)(1) and (6/7/8)(1) or
(12)(1), as appropriate, and in other applicable blocks of the current report. This is true even if there was
no formal request for a waiver or no action by the receiving state on a request for waiver.

E-8. HOLDOVER CASES
Current report formats include no provision for reporting holdover cases from previous reports. Previous
reports must always be checked to ensure that holdover cases are properly accounted for in the current
report or, if not finally disposed of in the current reporting period, are included in a subsequent report.
When it is ascertained that the foreign authorities do not intend to prosecute an alleged violation
reported in a previous reporting period, the case will be reported in a subsequent periodic report under
block (17/18/19)(1) as Charges Dropped. If a case that arose during a previous reporting period is
reported in block (17/18/19)(1), (20/21/22)(1), or (23/24/25)(1) of the current report, it should already
have been shown in block (6/7/8)(1) or (12)(1) and (14/15/16)(1) of the previous report, and will not
appear in block (6/7/8)(1) or (12)(1) and (14/15/16)(1) of the current report. In order to more clearly
show holdover cases, the following items will be added to the Notes block of the AE Form 550-56A
feeder report: last name, date of case initiation, and status (holdover).

E-9. CHARGES DROPPED (BLOCK (17/18/19)(1))
In addition to the circumstances indicated in paragraph E-8, a case arising in the current reporting period
in which foreign authorities indicate that they do not intend to prosecute after previously indicating that
they would exercise jurisdiction will be reported in block (6/7/8)(1) or (12)(1), as appropriate, and block
(14/15/16)(1), and will be closed out by an entry in block (17/18/19)(1). A case will be reported in block
(17/18/19)(1) only if no appeal has been taken against the decision to drop charges or, if an appeal has
been taken, final appellate action sustaining the decision to drop charges has been taken.

E-10. FINAL ACQUITTAL OR FINAL CONVICTION AND SENTENCE (BLOCKS
(20/21/22)(1), (23/24/25)(1), (6)(2), (7)(2), AND (8/11/13)(2)

    a. Cases will be entered in block (20/21/22)(1) only if there has been a final acquittal, and in block
(23/24/25)(1) only if there has been a final conviction and sentence. An acquittal or conviction and
sentence is final only if the period during which an appeal of the acquittal or conviction and sentence
may be made has expired and no appeal has been filed within the prescribed period, or all appeals and
rehearings have been completely adjudicated. Trials resulting in a finding of guilty but insane will be
reported as acquittals. If a case is reported in block (23/24/25)(1), an entry must be made in block (6)(2),
(7)(2), or (8/11/13)(2). No case will be reported in block (6)(2), (7)(2), or (8/11/13)(2) unless the case
has been reported in block (23/24/25)(1).




                                                        34
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    b. Only the most serious portion of a sentence is reported (for example, confinement not suspended,
confinement suspended, fine, or reprimand, in that order). The length of confinement not suspended over
5 years will be itemized in blocks (10/12/14)(2) of the new DD Form 838. Blocks 10, 12, and 14 of card
2 of the new DD Form 838 allow space for reporting 10 military, 5 civilian, and 5 dependent cases of
unsuspended confinement of 5 years or more, respectively. If more cases must be itemized, an additional
copy of card 2 of the new DD Form 838 must be used for the excess.

E-11. APPEALS PENDING
Current report formats include no provision for reporting cases in which appeals are pending or in which
the appeal period has not expired at the end of the current reporting period. If the case arose in a
previous reporting period (a holdover case), it will have been reported in that period and will not be
reported in the current report. A case that arose in the current reporting period but for which an appeal is
pending will be reported only in block (6/7/8)(1) or (17)(1), as appropriate, and block (14/15/16)(1).
Paragraph E-8 applies to these cases.

E-12. BALANCING OF ENTRIES
In a properly prepared report, block and line entries will balance out. Paragraph E-15c provides formulas
to be used in confirming arithmetical accuracy of the entries on cards 1 and 2 of DD Form 838.

E-13. EXPLANATION OF DISCREPANCIES
When an individual is finally convicted of an offense (for example, manslaughter) different from the one
he or she was previously reported as being charged with (for example, murder), the conviction will be
reported for the offense originally charged (in this example, murder). This discrepancy will be explained
in an enclosure to the correspondence forwarding the report to the appropriate service judge advocate
general.

E-14. CATEGORIZATION OF OFFENSES
All offenses relating to block 5 of card 1 of DD Form 838 will be categorized according to tables E-1
and E-2. An attempt or conspiracy to commit an offense will be categorized as a completed offense.
When an individual is charged with several offenses, only the most serious offense will be reported. In
determining what constitutes traffic offenses, disorderly conduct, and “other” offenses, the following
guidance is provided:
   a. Traffic Offenses.
       (1) Drivers-license offenses.
       (2) Privately owned vehicle registration offenses.
       (3) Other traffic offenses.
   b. Disorderly Conduct.
       (1) Destruction of private or public property.
       (2) Dishonorable failure to pay just debts.
       (3) Disorderly conduct.
       (4) Dumping trash.
       (5) Explosion of ammunition.
                                                        35
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (6) Indecent exposure.
       (7) Pandering.
       (8) Other types of disorderly conduct.
    c. Other Offenses. Offices using the USAREUR Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction Database must use
the list of offenses provided in the database.
       (1) Abortion.
       (2) Bigamy.
       (3) Carnal knowledge.
       (4) Child neglect or mistreatment.
       (5) Fraud.
       (6) Fishing and hunting violations.
       (7) Illegal possession of firearms.
       (8) Indecent acts with another person.
       (9) Indecent assault.
       (10) Sodomy.
       (11) Other sex offenses not otherwise listed.
       (12) All other types of offenses not otherwise listed.

E-15. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR SUBMISSION OF DATA (DD FORM 838)

   a. DD Form 838 is a single sheet that includes three separate offense reports. Cards 1 and 2 must be
completed for each offense.

     b. Number entries (in all blocks except 10, 12, and 14 of card 2) must be right-justified and zero-
filled (for example, the number 7 entered in a two-block space must be entered as 07; in a three-block
space it must be entered as 007).

    c. The data on file must be accurate. Certain checks have been established to prevent erroneous
information. Data will be checked automatically by the computer and will be rejected if in error. A list
of checks to be made by the computer follows:

       (1) On card 1 (see table E-1):

           (a) Block 6 - block 9 + block 12 - block 13 = block 14.

           (b) Block 7 - block 10 = block 15.

           (c) Block 8 - block 11 = block 16.
                                                        36
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
             (d) Entries are required in all blocks 1 through 25.

         (2) On card 2 (see table E-2):

         (a) The entry under block 8 (over 5 years) must show the number of entries recorded under
column 10.

             (b) The entry under block 11 (over 5) must show the number of entries recorded under block
14.

             (c) Entries are required in all blocks except 10, 12, and 14.

         (3) On cards 1 and 2 combined:

          (a) Block 23 of card 1 must equal the sum of the following on card 2: 6(mil) + 7(mil) +
8(under 1 year) + 8(1-3 years) + 8(3-5 years) + 8(over 5 years).

          (b) Block 24 of card 1 must equal the sum of the following on card 2: 6(civilian) + 7(civ) +
11(under 1 year) + 11(1-3 years) + 11(3-5 years) + 11(over 5 years).

          (c) Block 25 of card 1 must equal the sum of the following on card 2: 6(dep) + 7(dep) +
13(under 1 year) + 13(1-3) + 13(3-5) + 13(over 5).

      d. Descriptions of specific entries to be completed are provided in tables E-1 and E-2.




                                                          37
                            AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
          Figure E-1. Sample DD Form 838
                              38
AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
Table E-1
Description of Specific Entries (Card 1)
    Block #      Item Description
       1         Card No. The number 1 is preprinted on the form.
       2         Service. Enter the Service code: A = Army, N = Navy, F = Air Force, M = Marine
                 Corps.
     3-4         Country. Enter the country code:

                 AU         Austria
                 BE         Belgium
                 CY         Cyprus
                 DA         Denmark
                 FR         France
                 GE         Germany
                 GR         Greece
                 IC         Iceland
                 IT         Italy
                 LU         Luxembourg
                 NL         Netherlands
                 NO         Norway
                 PO         Portugal (not including the Azores)
                 AZ         Azores
                 SA         Saudi Arabia
                 SP         Spain
                 SW         Sweden
                 SZ         Switzerland
                 TU         Turkey
                 UK         United Kingdom
                 NOTE: If the country code is not shown above, write the name of the country in
                 the left margin.
     5-6         Rept Year. Enter the last two digits of year of the reporting period.
      7          Offense. Enter the type of offense code:

                 A          Murder
                 B          Rape
                 C          Manslaughter and negligent homicide
                 D          Arson
                 E          Robbery, larceny, and related offenses
                 F          Burglary and related offenses
                 G          Forgery and related offenses
                 H          Aggravated assault
                 I          Simple assault
                 J          Drug abuse
                 K          Offenses against economic control laws
                 L          Traffic offenses (including drunken driving and fleeing the scene of an
                              accident)
                 M          Disorderly conduct, drunkenness, breach of peace, and similar offenses
                 N          Other

                                                    39
                      AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
Table E-1
Description of Specific Entries (Card 1)
    Block #      Item Description
     8 - 20      Exclusive Foreign Jurisdiction Cases. Enter the number of exclusive foreign
 (items 6 - 8)   jurisdiction cases (including cases involving U.S. personnel who were subject to
                 the exclusive jurisdiction of the host state) for each category:

                   6.         Military:
                   7.         Civilian:
                   8.         Dep (dependents):
     21 - 30       Exclusive Foreign Jurisdiction Cases Released to U.S. for Disposition. Enter
 (items 9 - 11)    the number of exclusive foreign jurisdiction cases released to the United States for
                   disposition for each category:

                   9.           Military:
                   10.          Civilian:
                   11.          Dep:
     31 - 35       Primary Foreign Concurrent Jurisdiction Cases Involving Military. Enter the
   (item 12)       total number of primary foreign concurrent jurisdiction cases involving military
                   personnel (exclusive jurisdiction and cases subject to exclusive jurisdiction of the
                   host state).
     36 - 40       Waiver of Primary Foreign Concurrent Jurisdiction Over Military Personnel
   (item 13)       Obtained. Enter the number of primary foreign concurrent jurisdiction cases
                   involving military personnel for which a waiver has been obtained.
     41 - 53       Total Cases Reserved by Foreign Jurisdiction During Period. Enter the number
 (items 14 - 16)   of cases reserved by foreign jurisdiction for each category:

                   14.      Military: (block 6 - block 9 + block 12 - block 13)
                   15.      Civilian: (block 7 - block 10)
                   16.      Dep: (block 8 - block 11)
     54 - 63       Charges Dropped. Enter the number of charges dropped for each category:
 (items 17 - 19)
      (note)       17.      Military:
                   18.      Civilian:
                   19.      Dep:
     64 - 69       Final Acquittal. Enter the number of acquittals for each category:
 (items 20 - 22)
      (note)       20.      Military:
                   21.      Civilian:
                   22.      Dep:
     70 - 80       Final Conviction. Enter the number of convictions for each category:
 (items 23 - 25)
      (note)       23.        Military:
                   24.        Civilian:
                   25.        Dep:
NOTE: Include all cases finally adjudicated (all appellate rights exhausted or expired) during this
period, including cases that were pending trial or appeal at the end of the previous reporting period
and were finally adjudicated during the current reporting period.

                                                      40
                        AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
Table E-2
Description of Specific Entries (Card 2)
 Block #     Item Description
    1        Card No. The number 2 is preprinted on the form.
    2        Service. Entry must be same as on card 1.
  3-4        Country Code. Entry must be same as on card 1.
  5-6        Rept Year. Entry must be same as on card 1.
    7        Offense. Entry must be same as on card 1.
    8        Type Agrmt. Enter the Status of Forces Agreement code:
             1        No Status of Forces Agreement.
             2        NATO Status of Forces Agreement.
             3        Non-NATO Status of Forces Agreement.
  9 - 32     Sentences imposed in cases reported in final convictions on card 1
             (10 entries (2 spaces each))
   9 - 19    Military: Number sentenced by fine, reprimand, and so on (only).
 (item 6)    Civilian: Number sentenced by fine, reprimand, and so on (only).
             Dependent: Number sentenced by fine, reprimand, and so on (only).
  20 - 24    Military: Number sentenced, with confinement suspended.
 (item 7)    Civilian: Number sentenced, with confinement suspended.
             Dependent: Number sentenced, with confinement suspended.
  25 - 32    Military: Number sentenced (not suspended) for under 1 year.
 (item 8)    Military: Number sentenced (not suspended) from 1 to 3 years.
             Military: Number sentenced (not suspended) from over 3 to 5 years.
             Military: Number sentenced (not suspended) from over 5 years.
   33 - 52   Military confinement not suspended for over 5 years (itemize)
 (item 10)   Enter each sentence separately, beginning at the left. For example, five 6-year sentences are
             coded 0606060606. Unneeded spaces must be left blank. Code each sentence as follows:
  Code                                            Term of confinement
   06        6 years
   07        7 years
                                                 - through -
     99      Life imprisonment
     DS      Death sentence
   53 - 56   Civilian: Number sentenced (not suspended) for under 1 year.
 (item 11)   Civilian: Number sentenced (not suspended) from 1 to 3 years.
             Civilian: Number sentenced (not suspended) from over 3 to 5 years.
             Civilian: Number sentenced (not suspended) for over 5 years.
   57 - 66   Civilian confinement not suspended for over 5 years (itemize)
 (item 12)   Enter each separate sentence, beginning at the left, and leave unneeded spaces blank. Coding is
             the same as for item 10 described above (five entries (two spaces each)).
   67 - 70   Dependent: Number sentenced (not suspended) for under 1 year.
 (item 13)   Dependent: Number sentenced (not suspended) from 1 to 3 years.
             Dependent: Number sentenced (not suspended) from over 3 to 5 years.
             Dependent: Number sentenced (not suspended) for over 5 years.
   71 - 80   Dependent confinement not suspended for over 5 years (itemize)
 (item 14)   Enter each separate sentence, beginning at the left, and leave unneeded spaces blank. Coding is
             the same as for item 10 described above (five entries (two spaces each)).




                                                       41
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX F
REPORTING PROCEDURES FOR USAFE

The six reports required by the Joint Service Regulation will be prepared and submitted as indicated
below. The reports are keyed to the appropriate paragraphs of the Joint Service Regulation.

F-1. ANNUAL REPORT (PARAGRAPHS 4-3A AND 4-4)

   a. The annual report will be prepared according to appendix E and transmitted through the
designated commanding officer (DCO) to the judge advocate general of the service concerned:

       (1) Army: HQDA (DAJA-IA), 2200 Army Pentagon, Washington, DC 20310.

       (2) Navy: Navy TJAG Code 10, 1322 Patterson Avenue, SE Suite 3000, Washington, DC 20374.

       (3) Air Force: HQ USAF/JAO, 1420 Air Force Pentagon 5C269, Washington, DC 20330-1420.

   b. An information copy of each annual report will be sent to—

       (1) USEUCOM/ECLA, APO AE 09128.

       (2) HQ USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-IL-T), Unit 29351, APO AE 09014-9351.

       (3) CNE-C6F, PSC 802, Box 2, FPO AE 09499-0002.

       (4) HQ USAFE/JAI, Unit 3050, Box 100, APO AE 09094-0100.

    c. In the following counties for which the Commander, USAFE (COMUSAFE), is the DCO, the
following offices, listed by country, are responsible for preparing the report, which will be submitted to
the senior commander for approval and signature before forwarding:

       (1) Cyprus: USDAO, American Embassy Nicosia, Cyprus, FPO AE 09836 (all services).

       (2) Denmark: 426 ABS/JA, Unit 6655, APO AE 09706-6655 (all services).

       (3) France: 52 FW/JA, Unit 3680, Box 205, APO AE 09126-0205.

       (4) Luxembourg: 52 FW/JA, Unit 3680, Box 205, APO AE 09126-0205 (all services).

       (5) Morocco: Chief, U.S. Military Liaison Office, American Embassy Rabat, APO AE 09718 (all
services).

       (6) Norway: 426 ABS/JA, Unit 6655, APO AE 09706-6655 (all services).

       (7) Portugal: 65 ABW/JA, Unit 7710, APO AE 09720.

       (8) Turkey: Chief, Office of Defense Cooperation/TJA, PSC 90, Unit 7025, APO AE 09822 (all
services).

                                                        42
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (9) United Kingdom: 3 AF-UK/JA, Unit 4840, APO AE 09459-4840 (for Army and Air Force);
and Commander, Naval Activities, UK (COMNAVACTUK), PSC 802, Box 60, FPO AE 09499 (for
Navy).
   d. In the following countries for which the COMUSAFE is not the DCO, the following offices, listed
by country, are responsible for preparing the Air Force report, which will be submitted to the senior Air
Force commander for approval and signature before forwarding:
        (1) Belgium: Judge Advocate, Northern Law Center, 21st Theater Sustainment Command, APO
AE 09705. (The annual report is not submitted to the senior Air Force commander, but is submitted
directly through the DCO to the Judge Advocate General of the Air Force with an information copy to
USEUCOM (ECJA), APO AE 09128; HQ USAFE/JAI, Unit 3050, Box 100, APO AE 09094-0100, and
HQ, 21st TSC/AERJA-ILO, APO AE 09263.)
       (2) Germany: HQ USAFE/JAI, Unit 3050, Box 100, APO AE 09094-0100. Other reporting
requirements by Air Force legal offices as local legal liaison authorities in Germany are set forth in AE
Regulation 550-56/USNAVEUR Instruction 5820.13F/USAFE Instruction 51-705.
       (3) Greece: Chief, Office of Defense Cooperation, PSC 108, Box 42, APO AE 09842.
       (4) Italy: 31 FW/JA, Unit 6140, Box 115 APO AE 09604-0115.
       (5) The Netherlands: the Netherlands Law Center, Unit 21602, APO AE 09703-1602 (all
services).
       (6) Spain: Office of Defense Cooperation/SJA, PSC 61, Box 2000, APO AE 09642-2000.

F-2. QUARTERLY CONFINEMENT REPORT (PARAGRAPHS 4-3B AND 4-5)
The quarterly confinement report will be submitted by the United States country representative (USCR)
for all services as prescribed in paragraph 26 of the basic publication. USAFE agencies should provide
necessary information to the USCR to assist in preparing the report.

F-3. TRIAL OBSERVER REPORT (PARAGRAPHS 4-3C AND 4-6)
The trial observer will send his or her report to the USCR, who will review it and forward the original
and two copies to HQ USAFE/JAI, Unit 3050, Box 100, APO AE 09094-0100, for all countries for
which the COMUSAFE is the DCO (para F-1c). The USCR will send copies to USEUCOM (ECJA),
APO AE 09128; to the component command of the accused; and, when appropriate, to the chief of the
U.S. diplomatic mission, the country liaison agent, and the immediate commander of the accused. HQ
USAFE/JAI will make appropriate comments and transmit the original report and one copy to the judge
advocate general of the service concerned.

F-4. VISIT TO U.S. PERSONNEL CONFINED IN FOREIGN PENAL INSTITUTION
(PARAGRAPHS 4-3D AND 4-7)
The senior officer of the visitation team will send reports to the USCR. In countries where the
COMUSAFE is the DCO (para F-1c), the USCR will send reports directly to HQ USAFE/JAI, Unit
3050, Box 100, APO AE 09094-0100. An information copy of the report will be provided to
Commander, USEUCOM (ECJA), APO AE 09128, and to the component command of the member
concerned when reports indicate that conditions violate international agreements, the treatment of U.S.
personnel is unfair, or U.S. personnel are not given the same rights, privileges, and protections of
personnel confined in U.S. military facilities.

                                                        43
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
F-5. SERIOUS OR UNUSUAL INCIDENT REPORT (JOINT SERVICE REG, PARA 4-8)

    a. The list of criteria for identifying reportable incidents is not necessarily inclusive. A liberal
interpretation of serious or unusual incident is often required to meet the information needs of higher
headquarters. Good judgment at community legal offices regarding which incidents to report is essential.

   b. Some incidents must be reported even though they do not exactly match the listed criteria. Cases
involving minor offenses should be reported if it is foreseeable that high-level inquiries may be received.

   c. Reports will normally be prepared without delay by the staff judge advocate of the unit or
command nearest or most closely connected to the incident. Reports will be transmitted electronically to
HQ USAFE/JAI with information copies to—

       (1) The Commander, USEUCOM (ECJA).

       (2) The DCO.

       (3) The USCR (if not the preparing agency).

       (4) The country liaison agent of the individual concerned (if not the action addressee).

       (5) The component command of the individual concerned.

       (6) (In Air Force cases) the numbered Air Force judge advocate.

    d. Timely supplementary reports will be made, as appropriate, to keep higher headquarters advised
of the case’s status. The initial and each supplementary report should concisely answer the basic
questions of who, what, when, and where, and should be written clearly.

F-6. INDIVIDUAL CASE REPORT (DD FORM 1936) (JOINT SERVICE REG, PARA 4-9)
Air Force offices reporting on Air Force personnel will follow the reporting procedures of the Joint
Service Regulation, paragraph 4-6 or 4-8, instead of the separate procedure in paragraph 4-9. In USAFE,
DD Form 1936 is used only to complete reports, as appropriate, on Army and Navy personnel and to
receive reports from Army and Navy offices regarding USAF personnel.




                                                        44
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX G
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION—BELGIUM

1 May 1999 (updated September 2007)
             U.S. COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION FOR BELGIUM
G-1. AUTHORITY
This instruction is issued by the Commander, United States Army Garrison (USAG) Benelux,
NATO/Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (SHAPE) Support Group (NSSG), in the capacity
as the U.S. Country Representative, Belgium, and according to the authority granted by AE Regulation
550-50/CNE-C6F Instruction 5820.8K/USAFE Instruction 51-706 (hereafter referred to as the Tri-
Service Regulation), paragraph 7.
G-2. APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE
This instruction applies to all U.S. personnel (as defined in the glossary of the Tri-Service Regulation)
stationed in or passing through Belgium.
G-3. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
   a. The Commander, USAG Benelux (NSSG), delegates to the Judge Advocate, Northern Law
Center, 21st Theater Sustainment Command, the authority to act as the single POC with the legal and
administrative authorities of Belgium in matters relating to the exercise of criminal jurisdiction over
U.S. personnel.
   b. In this appendix, the term Liaison Authority refers to the Judge Advocate, Northern Law Center,
21st Theater Sustainment Command.
G-4. CNE-C6F AND USAFE LIAISON AGENTS
Pursuant to paragraph 8 and appendix C of the Tri-Service Regulation, the Naval Attaché, American
Embassy, Brussels, Belgium; and the Commanding General, 52d Fighter Wing, Spangdahlem,
Germany, are appointed CNE-C6F and USAFE liaison agents, respectively. These liaison agents will
assist personnel in their branches of service as requested by the Liaison Authority.
G-5. RESPONSIBILITY OF COMMANDERS
    a. Orientation. Commanders will advise U.S. personnel in their respective commands on their
arrival in Belgium of their rights and duties under the NATO Status of Forces Agreement. During
orientation, personnel will be advised of at least the following:
        (1) Their obligation under the NATO Status of Forces Agreement, Article II, to respect the laws
of Belgium and other NATO countries in which they may be present in connection with their official
duties, and particularly of their obligation not to take part in political activities in the host country.
      (2) Their liability to the criminal jurisdiction of Belgium according to the NATO Status of Forces
Agreement, Article VII.
    b. Limits on Transferring Personnel. U.S. military authorities will not permit U.S. personnel to be
transferred or reassigned outside Belgium without first notifying the Liaison Authority if these personnel
are accused or suspected of incidents likely to result in the exercise of Belgian criminal jurisdiction. This
notification is required to enable the Liaison Authority to take the action prescribed by AR 635-200,
paragraph 1-27.

                                                        45
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   c. Reports.

        (1) Incidents. Unit commanders will immediately report all incidents (Tri-Service Reg, glossary)
to the Liaison Authority.

       (2) Criminal Process. Unit commanders or supervisors will notify the Liaison Authority by
telephone (DSN 423-4910/4604, civ (32) 65-44-4910/4604) or fax (DSN 423-3862, civ (32) 65-44-
3862) if a member of their command or a person under their supervision receives foreign criminal
process (for example, summons, subpoena, request to appear before a judicial tribunal or police
authority) that was not forwarded by the Liaison Authority.

    d. Limits on Contacting Host-Country Authorities. In Belgium, unit commanders and other U.S.
authorities are prohibited from contacting local police or judicial authorities to obtain a release from
custody or a waiver of jurisdiction. If a unit member, a DOD civilian employee, or a Family member is
in the custody of Belgian authorities, the unit commander or other U.S. authority will advise the Liaison
Authority by telephone (DSN 423-4910/4604, civ (32) 65-44-4910/4604).

G-6. ARMED FORCES POLICE REPORTS
For offenses over which Belgian authorities hold exclusive or concurrent jurisdiction (including traffic
offenses), the appropriate U.S. military police or criminal-investigation authority immediately will—

   a. Inform the Liaison Authority of the known facts of the case.

    b. Give the Liaison Authority one copy of reports from the military police, shore patrol, or security
police; or incident reports from the United States Army Criminal Investigation Command, the Naval
Investigative Service, or the Office of Special Investigations, as applicable.

G-7. TRIAL IN ABSENTIA

   a. Under Belgian law, an individual may be tried in absentia for violations of the Belgian Penal
Code. An accused person may be tried in a Belgian court even if he or she is not present and not
represented by an attorney. (The Tri-Service Regulation, paragraph 17, provides U.S. policy on trials in
absentia.)

        (1) Under U.S. policy, a trial in absentia is a trial in which the accused person is not present at
the trial. Under U.S. regulations, an accused person may be considered as tried in absentia in a Belgian
court, even if an attorney represents him or her in the court (which would make the trial in presentia
under Belgian law).

        (2) Until the Liaison Authority has determined that Belgian authorities have given their express
or tacit consent to the departure of an individual from Belgium pending trial before a Belgian court
according to the policy in the Tri-Service Regulation, unit commanders or other U.S. authorities will not
allow the individual to leave Belgium.

    b. If Belgian authorities give express or tacit consent to the departure of an individual from Belgium,
but do not waive their right to try the individual in absentia, the removal, transfer, or reassignment of the
individual from Belgium (except in case of expiration term of service (ETS)) will be permitted only if
the individual provides a statement as shown in figure G-1.


                                                        46
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (1) In case of ETS, service regulations pertaining to voluntary retention beyond ETS (Army) or
voluntary extension of term of service (Navy and Air Force) are applicable (Army personnel: see AR
635-200, paragraph 1-29; Navy personnel: see Naval Military Personnel Manual 1900-1999; Air Force
personnel: see Air Force Instruction 36-3208).

        (2) If an individual does not choose to request voluntary extension of term of service or voluntary
retention beyond ETS, as appropriate, he or she will be advised of the contents of figure G-1 and be
requested to provide this statement voluntarily.



AERJA-NLC                                                                                                  Date


MEMORANDUM FOR Judge Advocate, Northern Law Center, 21st Theater Sustainment Command,
Unit 21420, APO AE 09705

SUBJECT: Advice on Trial in Absentia


1. It has been explained to me, and I understand that—

    a. Should I depart Belgium at this time, I may still be tried in absentia in a Belgian court for the
alleged offense(s) of __________________.

   b. Should I be convicted of the alleged offense(s) stated in subparagraph a above, a maximum
punishment of ________________________ could be adjudged against me.

    c. Settlement of civil damages that may have resulted from the above-alleged offense(s) before
referral will not necessarily preclude prosecution in a Belgian criminal court.

    d. If I am not eligible for a Belgian attorney at U.S. Government expense under the provisions of
AR 27-50/SECNAVINST 5820.4G/AFJI 51-706, I may retain such counsel at my own expense. Further,
I understand that such a lawyer may represent me before the Police Court. I also understand that a
lawyer may represent me before all other criminal courts (for example, correctional court, court of
appeal) only with the express permission of those courts.

   e. Any judgment rendered against me in an in absentia hearing would be legal and binding in
Belgium.

   f. If an attorney represents me in my absence at a court hearing, I would be legally considered as
being present at my trial under Belgian law.

   g. In case of a conviction, I have a right to request a trial de novo (new trial).


                Figure G-1. Memorandum for Providing Advice on Trials in Absentia


                                                        47
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   h. If neither I nor my defense counsel appear at the trial, I have 15 days after the date I learn of the
conviction to appeal the judgment. However, if I appear through counsel, I understand that I have 15
days after the date that judgment is rendered in which to appeal.

    i. I have the option to appoint a representative for service of process. I hereby request that the Judge
Advocate, Northern Law Center, serve as my representative for service of process for my trial for the
alleged offense(s) stated earlier. I understand that this request is an election of domicile in Belgium for
my trial and as such makes any judgment rendered against me valid over any later objection of improper
service of process. I also understand that notification to my designated representative is effectively
notification to me personally and that my right to request a trial de novo or to appeal an in absentia
conviction is limited to a 15-day period beginning at the time that my designated representative was
notified of the trial result. I realize that due to the limited time allowed for filing an appeal that my
designated representative may be unable to contact me to determine if I desire to arrange for an appeal to
be filed on my behalf. In consideration of this, I authorize my designated representative to act in my
place and file an appeal on my behalf when, in his or her best judgment, such an appeal would be
appropriate under the circumstances.

   j. I may request to remain in Belgium until my case is disposed of; however, I do not wish to submit
such a request.

   k. Should a trial occur, an official U.S. trial observer may attend the trial and render a report on it
according to applicable U.S. Government regulations.

   l. I may be contacted at the following address: __________________________________________.

2. I agree to notify the Judge Advocate, Northern Law Center, of any subsequent change of address or
telephone number.




__________________________ (Signature)



        Figure G-1. Memorandum for Providing Advice on Trials in Absentia—Continued




                                                         48
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX H
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION—DENMARK

25 January 1983 (updated September 2007)

H-1. PURPOSE
This instruction is intended to clarify the duties and responsibilities of U.S. authorities in Denmark,
relative to matters involving the exercise of foreign criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel in
Denmark.

H-2. AUTHORITY
This instruction is issued by the Naval Attaché, U.S. Embassy, Copenhagen, Denmark, in his or her
position as the U.S. Country Representative for Denmark, and according to the authority granted by AE
Regulation 550-50/CNE-C6F Instruction 5820.8K/USAFE Instruction 51-706.

H-3. APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE
This instruction applies to all personnel as defined in paragraph H-4a of this instruction who are
stationed in or passing through the Kingdom of Denmark.

H-4. EXPLANATION OF TERMS
   a. U.S. Personnel. As used in this instruction, all U.S. military and civilian personnel and their
dependents in Denmark who are subject to the provisions of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement.
   b. Legal Advisor. The Staff Judge Advocate, 426 ABS/JA (USAFE), Unit 6655, APO AE 09706.

H-5. RESPONSIBILITIES

    a. U.S. Country Representative, Denmark. The U.S. Country Representative, Denmark, or the
Legal Advisor at his or her discretion and on his or her own behalf, acts as the single POC with Danish
authorities and the U.S. Embassy, Copenhagen, for matters relating to the exercise of criminal
jurisdiction over U.S. personnel in Denmark.

   b. Commanders.

        (1) Commanders will establish procedures to ensure that personnel under their command are
advised of their rights and obligations under the NATO Status of Forces Agreement, including
respecting the laws of Denmark, refraining from engaging in political activities in Denmark, their
amenability to the criminal jurisdiction of Denmark, and their rights and duties relating to customs
privileges in Denmark. This advice will be given to personnel as soon as practical after their arrival in
Denmark. Commanders should avail themselves of the Legal Advisor’s briefing program for incoming
personnel on this matter.
        (2) Commanders will promptly inform the U.S. Country Representative, Denmark, and the Legal
Advisor of any act or omission by U.S. personnel under their command that involves Danish interest and
that in their opinion would result in any of the following:
           (a) Criminal proceedings by Danish courts.
           (b) A claim against the U.S. Government.

                                                        49
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
           (c) Creating or arousing substantial public interest.

           (d) Adverse public relations that would be detrimental to the United States.

        (3) Without prior approval of the U.S. Country Representative, Denmark, U.S. military
authorities will not permit the transfer or reassignment of U.S. military personnel or provide
transportation at Government expense outside of Denmark for civilian or dependent personnel involved
as accused or suspected persons in incidents likely to result in the exercise of foreign criminal
jurisdiction by Denmark. However, commanders will inform the U.S. Country Representative when
unusual circumstances or Service directives urgently require the individual’s transfer.

           (a) Commanders will ensure that an administrative hold is placed on all U.S. military
personnel under their command and those U.S. personnel not assigned or attached falling within their
custody responsibility who are involved as accused or suspected persons in incidents likely to result in
the exercise of foreign criminal jurisdiction by Denmark, in order to preclude personnel action that
would authorize the departure of such persons from Denmark without the prior approval of the U.S.
Country Representative, Denmark.

           (b) Commanders accepting custody of such personnel will notify the individual’s unit, the
servicing personnel office, and the appropriate transportation authorities that custody responsibility has
been assumed and that an administrative hold is required. Furthermore, commanders will impound,
where appropriate, all documents relating to the individual that might assist his or her unauthorized
departure from Denmark by any means, and will establish other appropriate controls to enhance
effectiveness of the custody.

           (c) Commanders will advise such personnel, by memorandum with acknowledgment
required, that an administrative hold has been instituted and that they are not to depart Denmark until
such departure is personally approved by the U.S. Country Representative, Denmark.

           (d) Commanders will notify by memorandum the appropriate traffic management office
(TMO) that such personnel must not be afforded Government transportation of any type from Denmark
without the prior approval of the U.S. Country Representative, Denmark, and to rescind any TMO
actions that have been completed permitting such transportation.

           (e) Commanders will not approve permanent change of station, temporary duty, pass, or leave
of such personnel without the specific approval of the U.S. Country Representative if their unapproved
departure from Denmark is anticipated.

        (4) Commanders are authorized to communicate directly with the U.S. Country Representative,
Denmark, and the Legal Advisor with respect to all matters involving the exercise of criminal
jurisdiction over personnel under their command.

   c. Legal Advisor.

        (1) The Legal Advisor will establish procedures to ensure that he or she is immediately notified
by Danish police of the arrest, detention, or apprehension of U.S. personnel by Danish authorities, and
will, as appropriate, advise such U.S. personnel of their rights relative thereto.



                                                        50
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (2) The Legal Advisor will immediately notify the U.S. Country Representative, Denmark; the
commander of the individual concerned or his or her designee; and the U.S. Consul, Denmark, or his or
her designee, of the involvement of any U.S. personnel in incidents resulting in their arrest, detention, or
apprehension by Danish authorities.

       (3) The Legal Advisor will assist the U.S. Country Representative, Denmark, in preparing and
submitting reports required under the provisions of AE Regulation 550-50/CNE-C6F Instruction
5820.8K/USAFE Instruction 51-706.




                                                        51
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX I
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION—FRANCE
10 August 2005 (updated September 2007)
              U.S. COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION FOR FRANCE
I-1. PURPOSE
The purpose of these instructions is to define procedures and to outline certain responsibilities in the
exercise of criminal jurisdiction in France over U.S. personnel. The instructions implement and
procedurally supplement AE Regulation 550-50/CNE-C6F Instruction 5820.8K/USAFE Instruction 51-
706 (hereinafter referred to as the Tri-Service Regulation).
I-2. APPLICABILITY
These instructions are applicable to all U.S. personnel as defined in the Tri-Service Regulation. In as
much as there are few U.S. personnel assigned at present to duties in France, these instructions apply
largely to U.S. Army, Navy, and Air Force personnel who are stationed outside of France but who enter
France with appropriate orders or permission from U.S. commanders.
I-3. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CRIMINAL JURISDICTION MATTERS
    a. The U.S. Country Representative for France, the Commander of the 52d Fighter Wing, is the
single POC for military services with the Government of France and with the U.S. Diplomatic Mission
in France for all matters relating to the exercise of French criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel. All
foreign criminal jurisdiction functions are performed for the U.S. Country Representative by the 52d
Staff Judge Advocate.
   b. The address of the 52d Staff Judge Advocate is as follows:
       52 FW/JA
       PSC 9, Box 205
       APO AE 09126-0205

       Telephone: DSN 452-6796/6797, civilian: (0049) (0) 6565 44 45
       Fax: DSN 452-7500, civilian: (0049) (0)6565 49 91

       e-mail: 52fw.jaadm@spangdahlem.af.mil

I-4. ORIENTATION OF PERSONNEL BEFORE ENTERING FRANCE
U.S. military personnel intending to enter France will be advised by their commanders of the provisions
of Articles II and VII of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) and will be instructed that it is
their duty to respect the laws of France and to abstain from any activity inconsistent with the Agreement
and, in particular, from any domestic political activity in France. Commanders will further instruct their
personnel that the French authorities have jurisdiction to prosecute U.S. personnel and their Family
members with respect to offenses committed within the territory of France. The individual
responsibilities of U.S. personnel as set forth in paragraph I-5 should be fully explained by commanders.
In September 1986, the French Government imposed visa requirements applicable to Americans. The
following rules apply as follows:
    a. Official Travel. Military personnel on temporary duty or temporary additional duty in France
must travel with a valid ID card and NATO travel orders. U.S. military personnel coming into France on
leave must carry an ID card. U.S. Government civilians require a no-fee passport to enter France for
official travel. For updated information, see the Foreign Clearance Guide.
                                                        52
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    b. Leave Requirements. Active-duty military personnel assigned to the USEUCOM theater
traveling to France on leave require a copy of leave orders and a valid military ID card. Military
personnel not stationed in the USEUCOM theater require a tourist passport. U.S. DOD civilians and
military and civilian Family members must carry a tourist passport with the appropriate French visa to
enter France. A visa is not required for stays of up to 90 days within any 180-day period. Stays of more
than 90 days require a visa. Foreign national DOD and military Family members with non-U.S.
passports should check with a French Embassy or consulate to determine which credentials they require
for entry.
I-5. INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITIES
An individual will report to his or her commander immediately after his or her return to the unit any
incident, motor vehicle accident, or traffic offense involving him- or herself or his or her dependents,
irrespective of whether such incident or accident involves or may involve a violation of French law; and
the receipt of any summons, subpoena, or request to appear before a French judicial tribunal or police
official.
I-6. REPORTING BY COMMANDERS
The commander who first receives notice, regardless of the source, of an incident, accident, summons,
or other document indicating that French law has been or may have been violated will contact the 52d
Staff Judge Advocate. U.S. Army commanders may confirm the information by using AE Form 550-
50A (Tri-Service Regulation, app D) (for incidents).
I-7. JURISDICTIONAL MATTERS
According to the responsibilities described in paragraph I-3, requests for waiver of the French primary
right to exercise criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel, assertions of U.S. primary right, or any other
determination concerning the exercise of criminal jurisdiction under Article VII, NATO SOFA, will be
performed by the 52d Staff Judge Advocate. No other command, office, or individual will make requests
of or commitments to, or negotiate with French authorities concerning criminal jurisdiction matters.
I-8. FRENCH TRIALS
Trials of U.S. personnel before French courts will be attended by a qualified lawyer trial observer. A
report of the trial will be prepared and sent to appropriate addressees in accordance with the Tri-Service
Regulation.
I-9. BAIL
Bail in criminal cases in France will not be provided for U.S. personnel by the U.S. Government.
Obtaining money for bail to secure release, or provisional liberty as it is called in France, is therefore the
responsibility of the individual. Under French law (Art 142, Code of Penal Procedure), the money
provided for bail is used to guarantee the execution of the judgment (including penal fines and civil
damages) and thus bail at Government expense is not authorized by the Joint Service Regulation, which
specifies that bail will be provided only to guarantee the presence of the accused and not for the payment
of fines or civil damages.
I-10. COUNSEL FEES AND COURT COSTS
Counsel fees and court costs will be provided at U.S. Government expense in appropriate cases. Funding
of these items of expense is the responsibility of the military service of which the accused is a member.
The general court-martial convening authority is the designated approving authority (for requests for
payment of these costs) and the 52d Staff Judge Advocate is the contracting officer for the retention of
French attorneys. In case of Army and Navy personnel, the 52d Staff Judge Advocate will make initial
arrangements subject to coordination with and approval by the appropriate representatives of those
services for attorneys’ fees and court costs.
                                                         53
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
I-11. UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE DISCIPLINARY ACTION
No person who is or may be the subject of French criminal jurisdiction shall be the subject of military
judicial or nonjudicial punishment or discipline under the Uniform Code of Military Justice for the
incident or accident giving rise to the French jurisdiction until clearance is obtained from the 52d Staff
Judge Advocate, following resolution of jurisdictional matters. Army commanders will comply with the
provisions of AE Regulation 27-10 and AE Regulation 550-56/USNAVEUR Instruction
5820.13F/USAFE Instruction 51-705, paragraph 4. Commanders may also take such immediate
administrative (nonpunitive) action as may be deemed appropriate.

I-12. TREATMENT OF PERSONNEL CONFINED IN FRENCH PRISONS

    a. Visits to U.S. personnel confined in French prisons will be made by members of the 52d Staff
Judge Advocate Office, and by military doctors or chaplains in appropriate cases, in accordance with the
Joint Service Regulation. Unit commanders may also make visits. No visit should be made without
coordination with the 52d Staff Judge Advocate, who will arrange for the issue of permits from the
appropriate French authorities.

   b. Any inquiries about prisoners should be directed immediately to the 52d Staff Judge Advocate for
consideration and reply.

   c. French prisons normally permit two American magazines (Time and Life) to be read by prisoners.
Units may send copies of these magazines directly to the individual prisoner or to the 52d Staff Judge
Advocate for delivery to the prison.

I-13. REPORTS
The 52d Staff Judge Advocate is responsible for all reports relating to the exercise of French criminal
jurisdiction, including the annual report, quarterly confinement reports, trial observer reports, and
prison-visit reports required by the Joint Service Regulation and the Tri-Service Regulation.

I-14. ABSENTEE SERVICEMEMBERS IN FRANCE

    a. Shortly after the departure in 1967 of U.S. Forces troops stationed in France, official French policy
regarding criminal jurisdiction was modified in an important respect. Thereafter, Servicemembers
stationed outside of France who were in an absentee status at the time that an alleged offense was
committed in France were not considered by the French authorities to be within the purview of the
NATO SOFA. Consequently, absentees arrested in France by French authorities are treated like any
other foreigner would be and are not turned over to U.S. authorities. In effect, France has exclusive
jurisdiction over these absentees and requests for waivers of jurisdiction are uniformly denied and are
considered inappropriate.

    b. The nonapplicability of the NATO SOFA to absentees in France has not precluded assistance to
absentees by the 52d Staff Judge Advocate unless the absentee either declines to ask for or refuses to
accept assistance. If an absentee expresses a sincere intent to return to U.S. military control (outside of
France) on disposition of his or her case by French authorities, all assistance normally extended to
Servicemembers in a regular status (valid leave or pass, temporary duty, or permanent change of station)
is offered to him or her. If an absentee declines to request contact with American authorities, the French
will not issue permits for a prison visit. Trials of all absentees will be attended by the 52d Staff Judge
Advocate and the appropriate trial-observer report will be prepared and forwarded as in other cases.


                                                        54
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX J
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION—GREECE

(updated September 2007)

              U.S. COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION FOR GREECE

J-1. PURPOSE
This instruction implements AE Regulation 550-50/CNE-C6F Instruction 5820.8K/USAFE Instruction
51-706. It establishes policy and procedures to be followed by U.S. authorities in respect to the exercise
of criminal jurisdiction by Greek authorities over U.S. military and civilian personnel in Greece.

J-2. APPLICABILITY
This instruction applies to U.S. military personnel and civilians who are nationals of the United States
and who are serving with, employed by, or accompanying the U.S. military forces; and their Family
members in Greece.

J-3. DESIGNATED COMMANDING OFFICER AND COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE
The Deputy Commander, United States Naval Forces Europe (USNAVEUR), is the designated
commanding officer for Greece according to USEUCOM Directive 45-3. The Chief, Office of Defense
Cooperation (ODC), is the country representative for Greece and, accordingly, acts as the single POC
for the U.S. military services with the U.S. Diplomatic Mission and the national authorities of Greece
regarding the exercise of foreign criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel.

J-4. INFORMATION AND EDUCATION PROGRAMS
Unit commanders in Greece are required to inform all U.S. personnel in country of the laws and customs
of Greece and the basic jurisdictional provisions of Article VII of the NATO Status of Forces
Agreement (SOFA). Particular emphasis should be placed on these subjects at newcomers orientations,
Family service orientations, and commanders calls. The assistance of servicing staff judge advocates
should be sought whenever appropriate to discuss Greek laws and the NATO SOFA.

J-5. WAIVERS OF JURISDICTION

   a. The Annex in Implementation of the Mutual Defense Cooperation Agreement (MDCA) and the
Comprehensive Technical Agreement (CTA) must be read together to understand waiver procedures in
Greece.

    b. Requests by U.S. authorities for a waiver by Greece of its criminal jurisdiction will be processed
in accordance with the following procedures:

       (1) The Navy Support Activity (NSA) Souda Bay Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) will prepare initial
requests for jurisdiction for all U.S. Forces personnel under the command of the Commanding Officer,
NSA Souda Bay, involved in a criminal investigation in Greece. The requests may follow the format
shown in figure J-1 and should include the following information:

           (a) Name, grade, service, organization, and mailing address of the accused.

           (b) A brief description of the incident that formed the basis of the complaint. The description
should include the time, date, geographic location, and circumstances surrounding the incident.
                                                        55
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
           (c) The offense allegedly committed.
           (d) The name and location of the court that will hear the case.
           (e) The scheduled trial date for the case.
           (f) The status of any claim submitted by the alleged victim.
    c. The ODC Legal Advisor’s office prepares documents required to formally request waivers of
jurisdiction from the Greek Government. The documents consist of an information memorandum from
the United States country representative (USCR) and a note verbale signed by the Deputy Chief of
Mission (DCM), who acts as co-chair of the Joint Commission. The documents are coordinated with the
political/military affairs officer at the U.S. embassy. According to the MDCA, requests for jurisdiction
must be presented within 30 days after the date the U.S. military authorities become aware of the
initiation of criminal proceedings against an accused to the Joint Commission established under Article
V of the MDCA (MDCA Annex, Art II(2)(b)(1)). Once signed, the waiver request is delivered to the
Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA).
        (1) In all cases, the waiver will be considered granted if, within 45 days after the date on which
the request is received by the Joint Commission, the competent Greek authority has not notified the U.S.
military authorities that the request has been rejected, or has not solicited a clarification of the request.
In the latter case, the 45-day period is suspended until the clarification is sent through the same channel
as the waiver request (CTA, Art 4(1)).
       (2) If Greek authorities do not waive jurisdiction, the case will likely proceed to trial. U.S.
authorities will request that the MFA ensure a trial date is scheduled as quickly as possible in
accordance with Article VII, paragraph 9(a), of the NATO SOFA.

J-6. ASSERTATIONS OF JURISDICTION IN OFFICIAL DUTY CASES

   a. NATO SOFA.

       (1) Paragraph 3(a)(ii), Article VII, of the NATO SOFA states the following:

           The military authorities of the sending state shall have the primary right to exercise
           jurisdiction over a member of a force or of a civilian component in relation to offenses arising
           out of any act or omissions done in the performance of official duty or done in connection
           with the performance of official duty.

       (2) In general, an act or omission is done “in the performance of official duty” if it is done
pursuant to or in accordance with competent authority or directive, whether expressed or implied, and is
reasonably related to the performance by the individual concerned of required or permissive official
functions in his or her capacity as a member of the U.S. Forces. Competent authority or directive
includes but is not limited to statute, regulation, the order of superior, or military use commensurate with
the specific factual situation and the circumstances involved.

   b. Procedures.

       (1) Actions by the Commander. When a member of the force or civilian component has been
involved in an accident that is possibly connected with official duty and that has become or is likely to
become a basis for a trial in the Greek courts, the local commander will take the following actions:
                                                         56
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
             (a) Consult with the servicing staff judge advocate or ODC Legal Advisor, as appropriate.

          (b) If appropriate, immediately appoint an investigating officer to investigate the
circumstances surrounding the incident. The investigating officer may be the servicing staff judge
advocate.

            (c) Review the findings and recommendation of the investigating officer and send the report
to the servicing staff judge advocate or ODC Legal Advisor for action.

       (2) Actions by the Investigating Officer.

           (a) Before beginning the investigation, the investigating officer should seek the advice of the
servicing staff judge advocate or ODC Legal Advisor. In appropriate cases, either the NSA Souda Bay
Staff Judge Advocate or the ODC Legal Advisor may investigate the circumstances surrounding an
incident and make appropriate judgments concerning the official duty status of the U.S. Forces
personnel involved.

           (b) Witnesses should be interviewed and sworn statements should be obtained, as deemed
necessary, from—

             1. Persons who were present at the time of the incident. Extreme tact must be exercised
when dealing with Greek nationals to avoid allegations of misconduct on the part of the investigating
officer.

              2. Other individuals who may have knowledge relevant to whether or not the act or
omission giving rise to the alleged offense was done in the performance of official duty or done in
connection with the performance of official duty, even though they were not present at the time of the
incident.

              3. The subject, if the subject consents to giving a statement after being advised of his or
her rights under Article 31 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice.

           (c) The investigating officer should obtain copies of police reports and documents related to
the case. Documents in Greek should be translated into English.

      (3) Report of Investigation. Reports of investigation should substantially conform with the
model in figure J-1 and should include—

             (a) A concise factual account of the facts and circumstances of the incident, including the
following:

                1. The name, grade, and organization of the subject.

                2. The mission of the subject.

                3. The source and substance of any relevant orders or instructions given the subject.

               4. The sobriety of the subject, including the degree of intoxication, if intoxicated, and the
results of any sobriety or blood alcohol test administered.
                                                          57
                            AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
               5. Whether the subject was in duty uniform. If the subject was attired in other than duty
uniform, the reason why other clothing was worn should be included.

               6. If the incident arose out of an automobile accident, the investigating officer should
provide identifying information on the vehicle. If a privately owned vehicle (POV) was being used, a
detailed statement as to why the POV was being used should be provided.

              7. The circumstances of the incident, including the nature and extent of personal injuries.

              8. The scheduled trial date and court for any judicial hearings on the matter.

           (b) Copies of all investigative reports prepared by U.S. or Greek officials.

           (c) An analysis of the facts as they relate to duty status.

       (4) Actions by the ODC Legal Advisor and USCR.

          (a) The ODC Legal Advisor will review the report of the investigating officer and make a
determination of the official duty status of the subject of the investigation.

            (b) If the ODC Legal Advisor determines the act or omission was done while in the
performance of official duty or in connection with the performance of official duty, he or she will draft
an official duty certificate and a cover memorandum and coordinate the package with the USCR. If the
USCR agrees with the Legal Advisor’s conclusions, the entire package will be sent to the
political/military affairs officer at the U.S. Embassy, Athens. (Figure J-2 is an example of the cover
memorandum and duty certificate.) A copy of the duty certificate will be forwarded to the NSA Souda
Bay Staff Judge Advocate for personnel assigned to that facility.

           (c) Ensure the Chief, ODC, is kept advised of all developments in the matter.

        (5) Actions by the Political/Military Affairs Officer and DCM. The political/military affairs
officer will review the package and forward it to the DCM. The documents are then delivered to the
MFA advising the Government of Greece of the U.S. Forces’ assertion of jurisdiction in the matter due
to the official duty nature of the case. (Figure J-3 is an example of the correspondence.)

    c. Automobile Accidents. Most requests for determination of official duty arise from offenses
involving the operation of motor vehicles. Since it is often difficult to determine when a POV is being
driven on official business and when it is being driven on a personal mission, it is imperative that the
investigating officer conduct an extensive and detailed investigation. The investigation should
affirmatively establish the reason why a POV, rather than a Government vehicle, was being used.

        (1) Travel from home to work and vice versa, in either a Government or privately owned vehicle,
is considered in the performance of an official duty as long as no material deviations are made from a
direct and normally traveled route. Matters to be considered with regard to a material deviation may
include the following:

           (a) The intent of the driver when the deviation from a direct route occurred.

           (b) Where the deviation took the driver, in a geographic sense, from a direct route.
                                                         58
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
           (c) The time that elapsed during the deviation.

           (d) Where the accident occurred.

       (2) The use of POVs for any military duty, including travel incident to temporary duty, is
likewise considered in the performance of official duty.

        (3) When U.S. Government vehicles are made available to groups of military personnel for rest
and recreation purposes, the operator of the vehicle will generally be considered as in the performance
of official duty.

    d. Departure From Greece. Subjects of investigations should not be allowed to depart Greece until
an official duty certificate has been issued or oral authorization has been obtained from the Chief, ODC,
or the ODC Legal Advisor. International administrative hold procedures do not apply to official duty
cases.

J-7. INTERNATIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE HOLD PROCEDURES

   a. Purpose. This paragraph implements Article II, paragraph 2, of the Mutual Defense Cooperation
Agreement; Article 4 of the Comprehensive Technical Agreement; Air Force Instruction 51-703,
Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction; and paragraph 14 of AE Regulation 550-50/CNE-C6F Instruction
5820.8K/USAFE Instruction 51-706, Exercise of Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction Over United States
Personnel. It establishes procedures designed to ensure that U.S. personnel charged or likely to be
charged in Greek criminal proceedings (with the exception of minor traffic offenses) are present for trial
and not transferred out of the country or provided U.S. Government transportation out of the country
without the permission of the servicing staff judge advocate.

   b. Applicability. This paragraph applies to all U.S. personnel. The term U.S. personnel includes all
military personnel and civilians who are nationals of the United States and who are serving with,
employed by, or accompanying the U.S. military forces in Greece, and their dependents.

   c. Policy. Commanders and their servicing staff judge advocates are responsible for ensuring that the
purposes of this memorandum are carried out.

       (1) International Administrative Hold. U.S. military personnel against whom Greek criminal
charges have been filed or are likely to be instituted (with the exception of minor traffic offenses) will be
placed on international administrative hold except in cases where the continuous presence of the
individual in Greece is not required by either Greek or U.S. authorities and would serve no useful
purpose. The Legal Advisor, Office of Defense Cooperation, in consultation with the appropriate
servicing staff judge advocate and country representative, will determine when it is appropriate to place
U.S. military personnel on international administrative hold.

        (2) Withholding Transportation. Members of the civilian component and dependents against
whom criminal charges have been filed or are likely to be filed (with the exception of minor traffic
offenses) may have reassignment orders and transportation at Government expense withheld. The Legal
Advisor and servicing staff judge advocate will determine when these measures are appropriate. No
other restraint may be placed on civilians or dependents by U.S. military authorities. Furthermore, no
additional measures may be taken to guarantee that a civilian under or pending Greek criminal charges
will remain in the country.
                                                        59
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   d. Procedures.

        (1) The servicing staff judge advocate at Naval Support Activity Souda Bay will maintain close
liaison with unit commanders, security police, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, the Office of
Special Investigations, and other agencies and establish procedures to ensure that they are informed of
incidents that may result in the exercise of Greek criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel.

       (2) Commanders of installations at which staff judge advocates are not assigned will promptly
inform the Legal Advisor, Office of Defense Cooperation, of any incident involving U.S. personnel that
may result in Greek criminal charges.

        (3) The Legal Advisor and servicing staff judge advocate will determine from the facts whether
international administrative hold or withholding transportation is required. If the facts indicate the
incident arose while the accused was in the performance of official duty, the procedures established in
this instruction should be followed.

       (4) If international administrative hold is required for a military member, the Legal Advisor or
servicing staff judge advocate will advise the member’s commander of this requirement in writing using
a memorandum similar to the one in figures J-1 and J-2. The member’s commander will then advise the
member of the international administrative hold, order the member not to depart Greece without the
specific written authority of the Legal Advisor, and have the member execute an acknowledgment of the
order. The commander will complete a memorandum of endorsement to the memorandum and return
both memorandums and the acknowledgment to the servicing staff judge advocate. The commander,
servicing staff judge advocate, and Legal Advisor will send copies of the memorandums and
acknowledgment to the following:

          (a) The member.

          (b) The servicing security or military police unit.

          (c) The servicing personnel office.

          (d) The servicing traffic management office.

          (e) The servicing hospital registrar.

          (f) The servicing administrative office.

       (5) If a member of the civilian component or a dependent is charged or is likely to be charged
with a criminal offense by the Greek authorities, the servicing staff judge advocate will advise the
individual in writing that reassignment orders and transportation at Government expense will be
withheld until further notice. Copies of the memorandum of notification will be forwarded to the
following:

          (a) The local commander.

          (b) The servicing security or military police unit.

          (c) The servicing personnel office.
                                                       60
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
           (d) The servicing traffic management office.

           (e) The servicing hospital registrar.

           (f) The servicing administrative office.

        (6) Air Force personnel should be placed on international administrative hold (Code 13) for 90
days. The military personnel flight (MPF) will consult the monthly international hold reports for the
current status of these Air Force members. The Legal Advisor will consult with the servicing Air Force
Staff Judge Advocate at the individual’s home station to monitor the Code status and ensure that the
individual is not allowed to separate from the Air Force before the disposition of the case.

       (7) In the following cases, U.S. personnel in international hold status may be removed from
international administrative hold or allowed to use Government transportation out of the country:

         (a) Before the trial, U.S. personnel may be removed from international administrative hold or
allowed Government transportation out of the country only with the express written consent of the Legal
Advisor.

           (b) After the trial, but before final disposition of the case while on appeal, U.S. personnel may
be removed from international hold status with the express, written approval of the Legal Advisor,
Office of Defense Cooperation, after consultation with the appropriate service judge advocate.

           (c) On final disposition of their criminal case.




                                                        61
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                Information Memorandum from Navy Support Activity Souda Bay

Request for Waiver of Jurisdiction - Chester E. Smith, Specialist, USA


1. I request your assistance in obtaining a waiver of Greek primary jurisdiction under the provisions of
Article II, paragraph 2, of the Mutual Defense Cooperation Agreement of 9 July 1990.

2. The following information is provided in support of this request:

   a. Name: Chester E. Smith

   b. Grade: Specialist.

   c. Service: Army.

   d. Organization: 558th U.S. Army Artillery Group, APO AE 09253.

   e. Facts:

       (1) Time and date: 2030, 22 October 2007.

       (2) Location: Vassileos Georgiou Street, Glyfada.

      (3) Description: Specialist Smith was observed by Greek police officers vandalizing a parked
automobile owned by a Greek national. The damage to the vehicle was estimated by the owner’s
mechanic at about €500.

   f. Charge: Vandalism in violation of Article 203 of the Greek Penal Code.

   g. Court: First Three-Member Court of Misdemeanors, Athens, Greece.

   h. Trial Date: 22 January 2008.

    i. Status of Claim: A claim for €500 has been approved for Mr. Voula, the owner of the vehicle, by
the Foreign Claims Commission. He will be paid that amount after he signs the appropriate release.




   RICHARD A. BARRON
   Captain, USN
   Staff Judge Advocate



               Figure J-1. Document Samples for Requesting Waivers of Jurisdiction

                                                         62
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                  U.S. Country Representative Memorandum to Joint Commission

SUBJECT: Request for Waiver of Jurisdiction - FC3 James Jones, USN


1. I have the honor to refer to the Comprehensive Technical Agreement (CTA) between the United
States of America and the Hellenic Republic in requesting a waiver of Greek primary criminal
jurisdiction in the matter of FC3 James Jones, United States Navy.

2. The evidence indicates that at about 2335 on 11 March 2007 in downtown Hania, Crete, FC3 Jones,
while under the influence of alcohol, allegedly smashed a window of a car belonging Ioannis
Broubakisus, a Greek national. At approximately 0005 on 12 March 2007, FC3 Jones attempted to flee
but was apprehended. While being apprehended, the subject resisted arrest and struck a police officer,
Dimitrios Trilirakis, in the mouth. Mr. Broubakisus and Officer Trilirakis suffered minor injuries.

3. Charges: FC3 Jones is charged with the following violations of the Greek Penal Code: resisting Greek
authorities (Art 167); simple bodily injury without cause (Art 308); simple property damage without
cause (Art 381).

4. A criminal trial is currently scheduled to begin in the Three Members First-Instance Criminal Court of
Hania on 21 May 2007. U.S. authorities have begun ex gratia claims procedures in this case under
Article VIII, paragraph 6, of the NATO SOFA. Liberty privileges of FC3 Jones have been suspended
and he has been restricted to the limits of Navy Support Activity Souda Bay since the date of the
incident. If Greek jurisdiction is waived, U.S. military authorities will be able to immediately begin
administering disciplinary action against FC3 Jones. Such actions could include punishment under
Article 15 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice for assault and property damage. Under Article 15,
punishments could include permanent reduction in grade and pay, a fine of up to 2 months’ salary, and
other punishments. These punishments would be administered immediately following completion of the
Article 15 action. Additionally, should U.S. commanders believe it advisable, FC3 Jones could face
court-martial.

5. Accordingly, to proceed with such actions, United States authorities respectfully request a waiver of
Greek jurisdiction pursuant to Article 4 of the CTA.




                                                     JOHN M. DOE
                                                     Colonel, USAF
                                                     U.S. Country Representative



        Figure J-1. Document Samples for Requesting Waivers of Jurisdiction—Continued




                                                        63
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                                Embassy Request to Joint Commission

Dear Ambassador Chrisopoulos:

    In accordance with Article 4 of the Comprehensive Technical Agreement between the United States
of America and the Hellenic Republic, I hereby submit a request for a waiver of criminal jurisdiction in
the case of Petty Officer (E4) James Jones, United States Navy, assigned to Navy Support Activity
Souda Bay. I urge the Joint Commission to give favorable consideration to this request.

                                                    Sincerely,




                                                    JAKE MALONEY
                                                    Co-Chair


        Figure J-1. Document Samples for Requesting Waivers of Jurisdiction—Continued




                                                       64
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                            DOD UNIT REQUESTING A CERTIFICATE

SUBJECT: Investigation for Determination of Official Duty Status (Lieutenant William E. Doe)


Office of Defense Cooperation, Athens
Legal Advisor
APO AE 09842


1. Facts and Circumstances: Lieutenant William E. Doe, USN, on 13 June 2007 at 1700, while
proceeding in his POV from his place of duty to his residence, was involved in an automobile accident
with a taxi on Athens Avenue, Chania, Crete. The circumstances that led up to this accident are as
follows:

   a. On Friday, 13 June 2007, at 1700, Lieutenant Doe was on his way home from work. The normal
duty hours for Lieutenant Doe are 0730 to 1645, Monday through Friday.

    b. On the way to his residence, Lieutenant Doe briefly departed from his most direct route to check
his mail at the post office. This departure took him about three blocks north of the most direct route and
was about 3 minutes in duration. After checking his mail, he proceeded toward his residence.

    c. After proceeding about two blocks on Athens Avenue, an oncoming taxi crossed the solid center
line and collided with Lieutenant Doe’s vehicle.

   d. Damage to Lieutenant Doe’s vehicle was $400. The taxi sustained damage of $250. There was no
other property damage. The driver of the taxi sustained a broken arm as a result of the collision.

   e. Lieutenant Doe is scheduled to rotate from his present assignment in November 2007.

2. Analysis: Travel by military personnel in a privately owned vehicle from their place of duty to their
residence is considered to be performance of official duty. It is true that Lieutenant Doe did depart from
the direct route; however, it was only three blocks to check his mail and he was back on the direct route
when the accident occurred. I do not think that the departure was a material deviation.

3. Findings: After review of all the evidence and applicable directives, I conclude that Lieutenant
William E. Doe was performing official duty when the accident in question occurred.




5 Encls                                              PETER PAUL
1. Statement - Lieutenant Doe                        Colonel, USAF
2. Statement - Major Black                           Commander
3. Statement - George Matsoukis


                        Figure J-2. Document Samples for Official Duty Cases
                                                        65
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                                      SAMPLE INVESTIGATION

                                               STATEMENT

I, WILLIAM E. DOE, Lieutenant, USN, 123-45-6789, Navy Support Activity Souda Bay, at 1700 on
13 June 2007, was involved in an automobile accident while proceeding from my place of duty to my
residence in Iraklion, Crete.

I departed the headquarters building at 1645 and proceeded down Athens Avenue, which is the normal
direct route I travel to go home. I live 2 miles from the headquarters building. About halfway home and
three blocks north of Athens Avenue is the post office where my mailbox is located. On the way home
that night, I decided to check my mailbox and then got back in my car and drove back onto Athens
Avenue. This errand took me about 3 minutes. I had not gone more than two blocks when an oncoming
taxi crossed the solid white line struck my vehicle head-on. The damage to my car was $400. The
damage to the taxi was about $250. The driver was the only occupant of the taxi. I was alone in my car.
The taxi driver suffered a broken arm in the crash. I had not been drinking before the accident. My
normal duty hours are 0730 to 1645 daily, Monday through Friday.




WILLIAM E. DOE, LT, USN


SWORN AND SUBSCRIBED BEFORE ME ON THIS 16TH DAY OF JUNE 2007.




T. R. AMSTAG
Lieutenant, USN
Staff Judge Advocate



                Figure J-2. Document Samples for Official Duty Cases—Continued




                                                       66
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                               OFFICE OF DEFENSE COOPERATION
                                    U.S. EMBASSY GREECE


ODCCH                                                                                       23 June 2007


MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: OFFICIAL DUTY STATUS OF MAJOR ANDREW S. WILLIAMS

I certify that LIEUTENANT WILLIAM E. DOE (O3), USN, a member of the U.S. Forces, was in an
official duty status when he damaged a rental car while returning from is residence from Navy Support
Activity Souda Bay.




                                                    JOHN MERROW
                                                    Colonel, USAF
                                                    Chief



                Figure J-2. Document Samples for Official Duty Cases—Continued




                                                       67
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                      EMBASSY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
                                  ATHENS, GREECE

The Embassy of the United States of America presents its compliments to the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs of the Hellenic Republic and wishes to refer to the case of Mrs. Jane Jones, Chief, Personnel
Management Section, 7206th Air Base Group, Hellenikon Air Base.

The District Attorney of Athens, Court of Misdemeanors, has issued Criminal Summons No. 302686,
alleging that Mrs. Jones criminally withheld wages from Vassiliki Kalpenidou and Dimitrios Gouskos
from 1 through 30 May 2007. Ms. Kalpenidou and Mr. Gouskos were formerly employed by the
Hellenic Office of Administration.

The Embassy wishes to point out that the case involves alleged offenses arising out of acts done in the
performance of an official duty. Further, the defendant was in an official duty status at the time of the
alleged offenses. Primary criminal jurisdiction over these offenses rests with the United States in
accordance with Article VII, paragraph 3(a)(ii), of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement; and the 1983
Defense and Economic Cooperation Agreement, Article III.

Mrs. Jones has been summoned to appear before the Aftoforon One-Member Court on 16 September
2007. The Embassy requests that the Ministry advise the appropriate authorities that the United States
has exercised its jurisdiction.

The Embassy of the United States of America avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic the assurance of its highest consideration.

Embassy of the United States of America
Athens, 3 September 2007


       Figure J-3. Sample Correspondence Asserting U.S. Jurisdiction Due to Official Duty




                                                        68
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX K
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION—ITALY

U.S. Sending State Office (USSSO) for Italy Instruction 5820.1D
24 October 2003 (updated September 2007)

SUBJECT: Operating Procedures in Italy Under Article VII, NATO Status of Forces Agreement

K-1. REFERENCES

  a. NATO Status of Forces Agreement (NATO SOFA), June 19, 1951, 4 UST 1792, TIAS 2846, 199
UNTS 67.

   b. Treaty Between the United States of America and the Italian Republic on Mutual Assistance in
Criminal Matters, signed 9 November 1982, entered into force 13 November 1985.

   c. Memorandum of Understanding Between the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Italy and the
Department of Defense of the United States of America Concerning Use of Installations/Infrastructure
by U.S. Forces in Italy, 2 February 1995 (Shell Agreement).

     d. DOD Directive 5525.1, Status of Forces Policies and Information.

    e. AR 27-50/SECNAVINST 5820.4G/AFJI 51-706, Status of Forces Policies, Procedures, and
Information.

   f. AE Regulation 550-50/CNE-C6F Instruction 5820.8K/USAFE Instruction 51-706, Exercise of
Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction Over United States Personnel.

   g. Italian Code of Penal Procedure (Codice di Procedura Penale) (CPP), D.P.R. No. 447, 22
September 1988, and subsequent amendments.1

K-2. ENCLOSURES

    a. Translation: Circolare issued by the Italian Government on 25 March 1957 (Ministry of Grace and
Justice Circular No. 786/357, Application of Article VII of the Convention of London, of June 19, 1951,
Concerning the Status of NATO Forces) (with 1981 amendments).

   b. Translation: Regolamento issued by the Italian Government on 16 March 1957 (Presidential
Decree 1666 of 2 December 1956, reprinted in No. 70 Gazzetta Ufficiale della Republica Italiana, 16
March 1957, Approving the Regulations for the Implementation of Article VII of the NATO Status of
Forces Agreement Signed in London on June 19, 1951).

   c. USSSO Rome, IT 141432Z February 2003 (Italy - Submissions of Assertions of Primary Right to
Exercise Jurisdiction and Requests for Waiver of Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction).



_________________________
1
  An unofficial English translation of the 1990 version of Italian Code of Penal Procedure, “USEUCOM Unofficial Translation, Italian Code of Criminal
Procedure, 24 May 1990,” is at tab 6 of the USSSO Deskbook.
                                                                          69
                                     AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   d. Circolare issued by the Italian Government on 1 June 1993 (Ministry of Grace and Justice
Circular No. VV/649/91/AR-2988, Article VII of the Agreement Regarding the Status of Forces of the
Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty, Signed in Strasburg [sic] on 19 June 1951 and Relative
Implementing Regolamento, Approved by Presidential Decree of 2 December 1956, No. 1666;
Complaints Filed to This Ministry by the U.S. Sending State Office for Italy, Care of U.S. Embassy,
Rome).

K-3. CANCELLATION
This instruction supersedes USSSO for Italy Instruction 5820.1C, 2 July 1998.

K-4. PURPOSE
This instruction prescribes the operating procedures in Italy implementing Article VII of the NATO
SOFA. Article VII addresses criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel.

K-5. APPLICABILITY
This instruction applies to all U.S. personnel stationed, on temporary duty, or transient in Italy.

K-6. BACKGROUND
The NATO SOFA defines the legal status of U.S. personnel in Italy. The U.S. Senate limited the United
States’ participation in the NATO SOFA by the reservations set forth in enclosure 1 to reference K-1d.
These reservations include—

   a. Imposing on commanding officers a duty to—

        (1) Request a waiver of jurisdiction from the Italian Government when there is a danger that
Italian penal proceedings will deny the accused the constitutional rights he or she would enjoy in the
United States and the denial of those rights will prejudice the accused.

       (2) Take specified action if such a waiver is refused.

   b. Providing for the appointment of trial observers.

K-7. EXPLANATION OF TERMS

   a. U.S. Personnel. The term “U.S. personnel” includes—

        (1) Members of the “Force” as defined in Article I, paragraph 1(a), of reference K-1a. Included
are all active-duty U.S. Servicemembers present in Italy pursuant to official orders and all active-duty
U.S. Servicemembers granted liberty or shore leave during a vessel’s port call to an Italian port.

        (2) Members of the “civilian component” as defined in Article I, paragraph 1(b), of reference K-
1a. Included are civilian nationals of the United States, or another NATO state other than Italy, who are
employed by the U.S. Forces in Italy.

       (3) “Civilian personnel” as the term is defined in annex A to the Shell Agreement (ref K-1c).
This includes civilian nationals of the United States, or another NATO state other than Italy, who are
closely affiliated with, but not employed by, the U.S. Forces. Unless otherwise specified herein, the term
includes DOD contractor employees.

                                                        70
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (4) “Dependents” of (1) and (2) above as the term is defined in Article I, paragraph 1(c), of
reference K-1a, and Family members of the personnel listed in (1) through (3) above who are entitled to
DD Form 1173.

        (5) All U.S. Servicemembers assigned to duty in another NATO country or assigned to a NATO
mission in a non-NATO country and who are present in Italy pursuant to properly authorized leave,
liberty, or pass.

   b. Designated Commanding Officer (DCO).

    (1) The DCO is the Deputy Commander, U.S. Naval Forces, Europe (Deputy
COMUSNAVEUR).

        (2) The DCO is appointed by the Commander, USEUCOM, as the Commander’s representative
in Italy and is responsible for implementing DOD and USEUCOM policy and procedures on the
exercise of foreign criminal jurisdiction (FCJ) over U.S. personnel in Italy.

   c. U.S. Country Representative, Italy (USCR).

       (1) The USCR, Italy, is the Officer in Charge, U.S. Sending State Office (OIC, USSSO).

        (2) The USCR is the only authorized POC with the U.S. diplomatic mission in Italy and with
Italian national authorities regarding the exercise of Italian criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel.

   d. Country Liaison Agent (CLA). The CLA is a senior commander appointed by the component
commander to act as the liaison agent for his or her respective branch of service in Italy. Reference K-1f
applies.

       (1) CLAs—

           (a) Serve as the central POCs for their services with the USCR and DCO.
           (b) Monitor FCJ cases and issues involving personnel of their respective services.
           (c) Ensure their component commanders are kept informed of FCJ cases and issues.
           (d) Arrange for the retention of defense counsel and payment of expenses in FCJ cases.
           (e) Perform other FCJ functions as required.

       (2) CLAs for Italy are as follows:

         (a) Army: Commander, United States Army Southern European Task Force (USASETAF)
(AESE-JA), Unit 31401, Box 7, APO AE 09630-0007; DSN 634-7717/7818, civilian (0444) 51-
7717/7818, message address: CDRUSASETAF(A) VICENZA IT//AESE-JA//.

         (b) Navy and Marine Corps: Commanding Officer, U.S. Regional Legal Service Office,
Europe and Southwest Asia (RLSO EURSWA), PSC 8107, Box 8, FPO AE 09622-0008; DSN 625-
4716/4409/4770, civilian (081) 724-5684499/4716/4409/4770, message address: TRISVCOFF
EURSWA NAPLES IT//.
                                                        71
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
        (c) Air Force: Commander, 31st Fighter Wing (Staff Judge Advocate), Unit 6140, Box 115,
APO AE 09601-0115; DSN 632-7843/7844, civilian (0434) 66-7843/7844, message address: 31 FW
AVIANO AB IT//JA//.

   e. Cognizant Military Authority (CMA).

      (1) CMAs and their area of responsibilities are listed in (2) and (3) below.

      (2) CMAs are authorized to—

          (a) Submit requests for waiver of criminal jurisdiction.

          (b) Receive communications from Italian judicial officials.

          (c) Issue formal statements and certifications as to official duty status.

          (d) Receive notices of arrests of U.S. personnel.

      (3) Areas of responsibility for the CMAs are as follows:

          (a) Commander, 31st Fighter Wing, Aviano: the region of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and the
province of Belluno in the region of Veneto.

           (b) Commanding General, USASETAF, Vicenza: the regions of Val D’Aosta, Piemonte,
Lombardia, Emilia Romagna, Trentino Alto Adige, Liguria, Toscana, Umbria, and Marche, and all
provinces in the region of Veneto, except Belluno.

         (c) Commanding Officer, RLSO EURSWA: the regions of Lazio, Abruzzi, Molise,
Campania, Puglia, and Basilicata, and the province of Cosenza in the region of Calabria.

          (d) Commanding Officer, NAS, Sigonella: all provinces of the region of Calabria except
Cosenza, and all provinces in the region of Sicilia.

          (e) Commanding Officer, Navy Support Activity, La Maddalena: the region of Sardinia.

       (4) By separate agreement, CMAs may make specific exceptions to the geographic areas of
authority described in (3) above and notify the USSSO of any exceptions.

       (5) CMAs should maintain close communication with local Italian officials concerned with the
exercise of FCJ to facilitate compliance with this instruction.

       (6) When the CMA is responsible for a case of an individual for whom the CMA is not the CLA,
the CMA will keep the CLA updated on all case developments. The CLA will meet the reporting
requirements in this instruction and references K-1e and f.

    f. Component Commanders. Component commanders (the theater-level commander for each
service) are as follows: CG, USAREUR/7A, for Army personnel; Commander, USNAVEUR, for Navy
and Marine Corps personnel; and Commander, USAFE, for Air Force personnel.

                                                       72
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
K-8. POLICY
DOD policy is to protect, to the maximum extent possible, the rights of U.S. personnel who may be
subject to the exercise of criminal jurisdiction by foreign courts and imprisonment in foreign prisons. At
the same time, our FCJ policy must promote friendly relations, encourage mutual cooperation, and
maintain a climate favorable to the accomplishment of our mission. CMAs should seek to maximize
criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel in a manner that is least disruptive to relations with Italy.

    a. In keeping with this policy, U.S. military authorities should, whenever possible and appropriate,
discipline personnel who have violated the laws of Italy.

   b. U.S. military authorities must take prompt and appropriate action when Italian authorities release
criminal jurisdiction back to the United States as a result of a request for waiver of jurisdiction.

K-9. TRAINING
Immediately on arrival in Italy, U.S. personnel will receive training by their commands on the following
provisions of the NATO SOFA:

   a. Article VII, which provides the right of Italian authorities to exercise criminal jurisdiction over
U.S. personnel in many instances.
        (1) Remind U.S. personnel that they are not immune from Italian prosecution solely because of
their status under the NATO SOFA or separate bilateral agreements.
      (2) Inform U.S. personnel of their rights and duties under the NATO SOFA and the possible
consequences of their failure to obey Italian laws.

   b. The requirement for U.S. personnel to report immediately to their commanders any incident
involving foreign nationals, Italian police, or judicial authorities.

   c. The requirement for U.S. personnel to immediately report to their commanders the receipt of any
summons, subpoena, or request to appear before an Italian criminal tribunal, police official, or
investigative magistrate.

K-10. TERMS AND DEFINITIONS

    a. An incident is any act or omission by U.S. personnel that affects Italian interests and could result
in any involvement with Italian criminal proceedings.

    b. The term proceeding includes apprehension, arrest, detention, confinement, service of criminal
process, pretrial investigation, trial, post-trial proceedings, appeal, service of sentence, and any order of
an Italian authority related to such criminal proceedings.

   c. Events that are considered serious or unusual incidents include the following:
       (1) Italian authorities place U.S. personnel in pretrial confinement.
       (2) U.S. personnel commit an offense for which an Italian court would normally impose a
sentence of unsuspended imprisonment.
       (3) Italian authorities actually or allegedly mistreat U.S. personnel.

                                                         73
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
          (4) Actions of U.S. personnel have generated or may generate publicity adverse to the United
States.

        (5) Actions of U.S. personnel have aroused or may arouse congressional or other U.S. domestic
or foreign public interest.

       (6) Actions of U.S. personnel have resulted in death, serious personal injury, or extensive
property damage.

K-11. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR SERIOUS AND UNUSUAL INCIDENTS

    a. Unit Commanders. Unit commander have the primary responsibility to safeguard the legal rights
of persons in their command when such persons are involved in incidents. Unit commanders (or CMAs
acting on their behalf) will immediately report serious or unusual incidents to the CLA responsible for
the accused.

       (1) Reports will be submitted by the fastest electronic means following the format prescribed by
service and component directives. Telephonic and e-mail reports are strongly encouraged.

          (2) Electronic copies of reports will be sent to the following:

             (a) The USSSO (USSSO ROME IT//OIC//).

             (b) The CMA.

             (c) For Navy and Air Force personnel: the chain of command.

             (d) For Air Force personnel: the Staff Judge Advocate, USAFE.

      (3) As new developments arise, complete supplemental reports must be submitted in a timely
manner. Navy commanders should submit supplemental reports each month.

   b. CLAs.

      (1) CLAs will report all serious or unusual incidents to the judge advocate general of the service
concerned following references K-1e and f, this instruction, and service directives.

          (2) CLAs will provide copies of these reports to the following:

             (a) USSSO.
             (b) DCO.
             (c) USEUCOM.
             (d) Component commander of the individual concerned.
             (e) CLA for the service of the individual concerned (if different from the reporting CLA).
             (f) For Navy personnel: the chain of command.

                                                           74
                             AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   c. Reporting Requirements for Minor Incidents.

       (1) Incidents that are not described in paragraph K-10c are minor incidents.
       (2) Unit commanders will report the following to the USSSO:
          (a) Minor incidents to the extent required by service or command policy.
          (b) Incidents that, in the opinion of the CLA or CMA, the USSSO or other Embassy office
should be aware of.
           (c) Minor incidents will be reported to the USSSO when required by USSSO claims
instructions.

   d. TDY and TAD Personnel and Personnel From Geographically Separated Commands.

      (1) For incidents involving U.S. personnel who are geographically separated from their
commands, and this separation prevents the individual’s command from complying with this instruction,
the CMA of the unit closest to the incident will assume responsibility for the case.

     (2) The CMA will notify the parent or sponsoring commander of the incident and inform the
commander that the CMA has assumed responsibility for the purposes of this instruction.

       (3) When the incident comes to the attention of the parent or sponsoring commander first, the
commander will contact the CMA of the unit closest to the incident and the CMA will assume
responsibility for the case.

    e. Afloat Personnel. When operational requirements of a ship affect compliance with this
instruction, the commanding officer of the ship should refer the matter to the CMA and the U.S. Trial
Service Office (TSO), EURSWA.

K-12. SERVICE OF FOREIGN CRIMINAL PROCESS

    a. Unit commanders and CMAs should assist and cooperate with Italian authorities attempting to
serve criminal process on U.S. personnel.

   b. Unit commanders and CMAs may not serve process on an accused.

    c. Italian authorities must provide a copy of the process to the unit commander. The unit commander
will notify his or her CMA to determine whether Italian authorities are properly exercising jurisdiction.

   d. CMAs and unit commanders will provide the accused an English translation of the document.

K-13. DETERMINING CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

   a. Responsibility.
       (1) When an incident occurs, unit commanders will refer the matter to the CMA.
        (2) The CMA will determine whether the United States or the Government of Italy has exclusive
jurisdiction or the primary right of jurisdiction in a concurrent jurisdiction case.
                                                        75
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   b. U.S. or Italian Jurisdiction.

        (1) The United States has exclusive jurisdiction when only U.S. law (the Uniform Code of
Military Justice (UCMJ) or an extraterritorial provision of the United States Code not covered by Italian
law) is violated.

       (2) The United States has the primary right of jurisdiction in concurrent jurisdiction cases over
offenses committed by U.S. military personnel if any of the following applies:

           (a) The offense was committed solely against the property or security of the United States.

           (b) The offense was committed solely against the property or person of U.S. personnel.

           (c) The offense was committed during the performance of official duty.

       (3) Italy has exclusive or primary right of jurisdiction in concurrent jurisdiction cases over all
other offenses against Italian law committed by U.S. personnel.

K-14. PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS

   a. U.S. Jurisdiction.

       (1) The CMA will send all assertions of jurisdiction and requests for waiver of jurisdiction to the
USSSO OIC for review and approval before such assertions and requests are filed with Italian
authorities.

           (a) Assertions. After USSSO OIC approval, the CMA will immediately file the assertion
through the appropriate Procura Distrettuale della Repubblica and address it to the Italian Ministry of
Justice (MOJ). A “blind” copy will be sent to the accused’s Italian defense attorney for information
only. The assertion will include the court docket number or, if a court docket number has not been
assigned to the case, the criminal investigation number.

            (b) Requests for Waiver of Jurisdiction. Filing procedures for requests for waiver of
jurisdiction are the same as for assertions; however, requests are to be filed only after a court docket
number has been assigned to the case. The Italian MOJ may not consider a request for waiver if it has
been filed after the accused has been served a summons to trial.

       (2) CMAs will send copies of all filed assertions and waiver requests to the USSSO within 2
business days after filing with local Italian authorities.

       (3) If the Italian prosecutor neither questions the U.S. assertion of jurisdiction nor requests a
waiver of primary jurisdiction, the unit commander should take appropriate disciplinary action without
delay.

   b. Italian Jurisdiction.

      (1) U.S. authorities will not make any criminal disposition of a case in which Italy has the
primary right of jurisdiction until either Italian authorities waive such right or the OIC, USSSO,
approves such action.
                                                         76
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
        (2) Unit commanders of U.S. military personnel pending the exercise of Italian criminal
jurisdiction may, however, without application to the USSSO, exercise nonjudicial punishment authority
to the extent permitted by their service regulations.

                  (a) Nonjudicial punishment is appropriate when—

            1. It is unlikely that the offender will be subjected to actual punishment by the
Government of Italy.2

                       2. The needs of military discipline are not otherwise met under the circumstances of the
         3
case.

          (b) If an accused declines nonjudicial punishment, commanders must obtain approval from
the OIC, USSSO, before preferring court-martial charges.

       c. When Jurisdiction is Disputed.

        (1) The CMA must contact the USSSO immediately when Italy claims exclusive or primary
jurisdiction and the CMA disagrees.

        (2) If Italian authorities seek to request a waiver of the U.S. right to jurisdiction, the CMA will
report that fact, together with all pertinent details, to the USSSO for determination of appropriate action.

       (3) In the interim, the Servicemember’s chain of command will suspend all judicial or
nonjudicial proceedings until the matter of jurisdiction or waiver is resolved. This does not preclude
investigation of charges or other appropriate administrative action.

K-15. AVAILABILITY OF PERSONNEL IN U.S. CUSTODY OR CONTROL

    a. In the absence of an overriding operational necessity, U.S. personnel in the Italian territory must
be available to Italian authorities for noncustodial interrogation on the request of the prosecutor,
preliminary investigating judge, preliminary-hearing judge, or competent Italian police authorities.

   b. U.S. officials will not deliver U.S. personnel who are in their custody or control to Italian custody
unless the prosecutor or judge makes a specific request for such custody. The request must follow—

             (1) The preferral of formal charges.

             (2) The prosecutor’s investigation.

_________________________
2
  These are situations where punishment by Italian authorities is unlikely: (a) When the offense is one for which MOJ routinely grants waiver requests, (b)
When the offense is subject to an Italian amnesty (granted from time to time by the Government of Italy through legislation), or (c) When the offense is one
for which, under the circumstances of the case, the Italian court involved normally suspends all punishment.
3
    Unit commanders should consider whether the following meets the needs of military discipline in a particular case:

       a. Confinement awaiting disposition of the case by Italian authorities.
       b. Voluntary payment of damages by the accused.
       c. Involuntary payment of damages pursuant to Article 139, UCMJ.
       d. Loss of some other appreciable right or benefit sufficient to indicate that the accused has already been “punished” for the offense.

                                                                                 77
                                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    c. U.S. personnel must refrain from any official action that would initiate a situation that might result
in confinement of U.S. personnel in Italian jails or adversely affect command disciplinary action. This
does not preclude the following:

          (1) An individual acting in a personal capacity who seeks the assistance of Italian authorities.

       (2) Official actions such as military criminal investigations or crime-prevention programs
conducted unilaterally or in conjunction with Italian authorities in accordance with the Article VII,
paragraph (6), of reference K-1a.

K-16. RELEASE OF MILITARY PERSONNEL FROM ITALIAN CUSTODY

   a. Outright Release. The CMA will attempt, at the local level, to secure the release of all accused
military personnel from Italian custody until completion of Italian judicial proceedings, including
appeals.

    b. Transfer of Military Personnel to U.S. Authorities in Italy. If Italian officials deny outright
release without restriction, the CMA should request that the accused be transferred to U.S. authorities.
The CMA or a member of the chain of command may assure Italian prosecutors or other appropriate
judicial and police authorities that the accused will not be removed from Italy without notice and an
adequate opportunity for Italian authorities to object.

    c. Removal of U.S. Military Personnel From Italy. After the United States has formally assumed
the custody of a U.S. Servicemember and has agreed to make the Servicemember available for trial, the
United States will not remove the Servicemember from Italy without first providing—

          (1) The USSSO with telephonic notice of the potential transfer.

          (2) The Italian prosecutor written notice and an adequate opportunity to object to the removal.4

   d. Pretrial Restraint. A commander may impose pretrial restraint on an accused Servicemember to
ensure the accused’s presence at trial or other proceedings on Italian charges.

        (1) Statutory and Regulatory Compliance. Pretrial restraints must comply with the Manual for
Courts-Martial, United States (2005 edition); and command policy. Usually, however, restriction to the
limits of a military installation will meet the command’s needs and be acceptable to the cognizant Italian
officials.

       (2) Status of Military Personnel. The commander must ensure that the Servicemember does not
remain under pretrial restraint beyond the end of his or her term of obligated service. If the
Servicemember is approaching the end of obligated service—

         (a) The CMA should inform the Italian prosecutor of that fact and request permission for the
Servicemember to leave Italy.

           (b) If the request in (a) above is denied, the unit commander should, in accordance with
service regulations, seek the Servicemember’s consent to a voluntary extension of military service.
_________________________
4
  U.S. military commands are not required to notify prosecutors of the departure from Italy of Servicemembers who are criminally charged but not subject to
pretrial confinement or restriction of their liberty.
                                                                           78
                                      AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
           (c) If the Servicemember’s refuses to consent to a voluntary extension of military service, the
CMA should notify the Italian prosecutor of that fact and take steps to have the Servicemember
involuntarily extended.

            (d) If an involuntary extension is not possible, the CMA must notify the Italian prosecutor
that a transfer and removal from Italy is imminent.

K-17. RELEASE OF CIVILIAN COMPONENT PERSONNEL, U.S. CIVILIAN PERSONNEL,
AND DEPENDENTS FROM ITALIAN CUSTODY

  a. CMAs should attempt to secure the release of U.S. civilian employees and dependent Family
members from Italian pretrial confinement.

   b. The CMA should inform the Italian prosecutor and other appropriate Italian officials that the
United States can neither restrain the liberty of civilian employees and dependent Family members nor
guarantee their presence at trial.

   c. The CMA may make a pledge that the United States will not remove the accused from Italy at
U.S. Government expense without the prior approval of the Italian Government.

    d. When seeking removal of restrictions on the accused’s liberties, the accused may voluntarily
surrender his or her passport to the local Questura as evidence of the intent to remain in Italy pending
disposition of charges or action by Italian officials.

K-18. BAIL

    a. Appropriated funds may be used for bail; however, reference K-1e precludes using such funds for
the payment of fines or civil penalties.

   b. CMAs or unit commanders must obtain assurances from Italian officials before using appropriated
funds to post bail that any bail paid will not be used to guarantee the payment of fines or civil penalties.

K-19. DANGER OF UNFAIR TRIAL

    a. Action by CMAs and CLAs. When it appears probable that the United States will not obtain
release from custody or waiver of jurisdiction, and the accused may not receive a fair trial or fair
treatment before, during, or after the trial, the CMA or the CLA will contact the USSSO and provide—

       (1) The complete facts of the case with recommendations.

        (2) Any written communications provided to the DCO, the CLA, and the component commander
of the accused.

   b. Unfair Trial Defined. An unfair trial in criminal judicial proceeding in an Italian court is one in
which any of the following occurs:

       (1) The accused is not afforded the procedural rights, privileges, and protections that are
guaranteed by applicable international agreements (for example, Article VII, paragraph (9), of reference
K-1a).
                                                        79
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (2) The accused is prejudicially denied any of the substantive rights, procedural safeguards, or
both guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution in criminal proceedings in State courts of the United States,
including the fair-trial rights listed at enclosure 1 to reference K-1d.

       (3) The accused is not afforded the substantive rights or procedural safeguards to which local
nationals are entitled under local law or practice.

NOTE: A trial is not considered unfair solely because it is not conducted in the same manner as trials
held in the United States.

    c. Fair Treatment Defined. Fair treatment is treatment in which rights, privileges, and protections
are substantially equivalent to those afforded persons in the custody of U.S. military authorities and not
less than those afforded local nationals under local law and practice.

K-20. PRIOR JEOPARDY

    a. Prior Disposition by U.S. Authorities. CMAs will notify the USSSO immediately if Italian
judicial authorities attempt to exercise criminal jurisdiction over offenses by U.S. personnel for which
U.S. military or civil authorities have already exercised criminal jurisdiction.

   b. Prior Trial by Italian Authorities. Unit commanders will not, without the prior approval of the
CMA and the component commander of the accused, institute disciplinary measures other than
nonjudicial punishment when Italian authorities have previously exercised criminal jurisdiction.

K-21. TRANSFER ON RELEASE OR WHEN NOT IN ITALIAN CUSTODY

   a. Military Personnel.

       (1) Military personnel who are released from Italian custody pending completion of Italian
proceedings against them, or who are accused but have not been placed in Italian custody, may be
transferred out of Italy provided that—

          (a) The release from Italian custody has not been obtained on the basis of a U.S. commitment
to produce the accused for a personal appearance at some future time.

           (b) The Servicemember has been advised that he or she may be tried in absentia, has signed a
written acknowledgment of trial rights, and has elected domicile (elezione di domicilio) for service-of-
process purposes.

                1. The Servicemember will be advised in writing of his or her obligation to inform the
legal office responsible for monitoring the case of any subsequent change of address for notification
purposes.

              2. If the Servicemember will be represented at U.S. Government expense, all necessary
powers of attorney must be completed before the Servicemember’s departure from Italy, including a
special power of attorney in favor of the retained Italian attorney.

       (2) Army military personnel involved in serious offenses will not return to the continental United
States without prior authorization of HQDA (DAJA-IO).
                                                        80
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   b. Civilian Component, Civilian Personnel, and Dependents.
        (1) If otherwise authorized by U.S. statute and regulations, the United States may provide
transportation to a member of the civilian component, civilian personnel, and dependents under the same
criteria as in paragraph K-11a.
        (2) If the case does not meet the criteria in (1) above, but the accused intends to leave Italy before
final action by Italian authorities, the CMA or CLA will notify the USSSO immediately.
    c. Inadvertent Departures. If personnel transfer before military authorities know of an alleged
offense, and if Italian authorities intend to prosecute the offense, the CMA will notify the following
immediately:
       (1) The accused.
       (2) The USSSO.
       (3) The CLA.
   d. Legal Hold. The use of legal hold is not justified unless a personal precautionary measure is
imposed in accordance with reference K-1g. Generally, Italian authorities do not place restrictions on the
removal of an accused from Italy.

K-22. EXCLUSIVE U.S. JURISDICTION CASES
    a. CMAs will notify in writing the appropriate Italian prosecutor of an exclusive U.S. jurisdiction
case only if the prosecutor has inadvertently opened an investigation into the case. Copies of the
notification may be given to other Italian judicial and police officials as required by the circumstances.
    b. Article VII, paragraph (6)(b), of reference K-1a provides authority for Italian judicial and police
officials to transfer Italian investigative and judicial records to U.S. military authorities in exclusive U.S.
jurisdiction cases.

K-23. U.S. PRIMARY RIGHT (CONCURRENT JURISDICTION) CASES
Procedures for submitting assertions of primary right to exercise jurisdiction and requests for waiver of
foreign criminal jurisdiction are as follows:
    a. Notification. The CMA will send all assertions of jurisdiction and requests for waiver of
jurisdiction to the USSSO OIC for review and approval before such assertions and requests are filed
with Italian authorities.
        (1) Assertions. After USSSO OIC approval, the CMA will immediately file the assertion through
the appropriate Procura Distrettuale della Repubblica and address it to the Italian MOJ. A “blind” copy
will be sent to the accused’s Italian defense attorney for information only. The assertion will include the
court docket number or, if a court docket number has not been assigned to the case, the criminal
investigation number.
        (2) Requests for Waiver of Jurisdiction. Filing procedures for requests for waiver of
jurisdiction are the same as for assertions; however, requests are to be filed only after a court docket
number has been assigned to the case. The Italian MOJ may not consider a request for waiver if it has
been filed after the accused has been served a summons to trial.CMAs will send copies of all filed
assertions and waiver requests to the USSSO within 2 business days after filing with local Italian
authorities.
                                                         81
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    b. Transfer of Records. Article VII, paragraph (6)(b), of reference K-1a and paragraph III of
reference K-1g authorize Italian judicial and police officials to transfer Italian investigative and judicial
records to U.S. military authorities in U.S. primary right (concurrent jurisdiction) cases.

   c. Official Duty Cases.

       (1) It is U.S. policy not to waive the U.S. primary right to exercise criminal jurisdiction in a
concurrent jurisdiction case under Article VII, paragraph (3)(a)(ii), of reference K-1a when a
Servicemember’s official duty status is clear.

       (2) Guidance on official duty determinations from the USSSO is required.

   d. Administrative Traffic Offenses.

      (1) CMAs are not authorized to assert U.S. primary jurisdiction for administrative traffic offenses
punished through fines when a Servicemember, through his or her own negligence or willful
misconduct, violated an Italian traffic law for which no penal sentence is possible.

       (2) CMAs may assert primary jurisdiction if the offense was based on the actions of another
individual and the driver was otherwise in the performance of official duty.

   e. Civilian Component, Civilian Personnel, and Dependents. Because the United States does not
exercise military jurisdiction over civilians, assertions of U.S. primary criminal jurisdiction in
concurrent jurisdiction cases for offenses allegedly committed by civilians will not be made.

K-24. U.S. REQUESTS FOR WAIVER OF ITALIAN CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

    a. When to Request. CMAs generally will file requests for waiver of Italian jurisdiction in cases
involving U.S. military personnel in which the primary right to exercise jurisdiction in concurrent cases
is vested in the Italian Government.

    b. When Not to Request a Waiver. CMAs should not file requests for waivers if any of the
following applies:

        (1) The offense is within the exclusive jurisdiction of Italy, unless prior express written approval
is granted by the OIC, USSSO.

       (2) Italian authorities have not yet initiated criminal charges.

       (3) The case could go to trial immediately under Italian law if no waiver is requested, use of
immediate trial procedure (for example, giudizio direttissimo, giudizio immediato) is probable, the
sentence adjudged could not or probably will not include confinement, and such a procedure would be in
the best interest of the United States.

       (4) The offense is within the exclusive or primary jurisdiction of the United States as defined in
paragraph K-13b.

    c. Civilians. The United States does not exercise military criminal jurisdiction over civilians;
therefore, requests for waivers will not be made.
                                                         82
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   d. Procedure for Requesting Waivers. Procedures for submitting requests for waiver of foreign
criminal jurisdiction are as follows:

        (1) Notification. The CMA will send all requests for waiver of jurisdiction to the USSSO OIC
for review and approval before such requests are filed with Italian authorities.

        (2) Filing. After USSSO OIC approval, the CMA will immediately file the request for waiver
through the appropriate Procura Distrettuale della Repubblica and addressed to the Italian MOJ. A
“blind” copy will be sent to the accused’s Italian defense attorney for information only. Requests are to
be filed only after a court docket number has been assigned to the case.5

       (3) Copies. CMAs will send copies of all filed assertions and waiver requests to the USSSO
within 2 business days after filing with local Italian authorities.

     e. Timely Filing of Requests by U.S. Authorities.

       (1) If a request for waiver of jurisdiction is filed in a timely manner and the court schedules a
hearing before action by the Italian MOJ, the defense attorney for the accused should be notified.

       (2) The Italian MOJ may not accept requests for waiver of jurisdiction after the accused has been
served a summons to court for the first hearing. Therefore, CMAs must submit such requests promptly.

        (3) Since implementation of the new Italian CPP (ref K-1g), some commands have not received
notification of investigation or notification of charges until after the summons to court for the first
hearing has been served.6 Lack of timely information may result in the Servicemembers being tried in
Italian courts, even in cases where the Italian MOJ routinely grants waiver requests.7


_________________________
5
  In cases involving death, serious injury, or significant property loss, local prosecutors and senior MOJ officials have repeatedly expressed concerns that the
granting of U.S. waiver requests leaves injured parties without the ability to obtain timely, adequate compensation through the filing, or the threat of filing,
parallel civil claims. The USSSO recommends that in such cases an appropriate CMA representative deliver a copy of the filed waiver request in person to
the local prosecutor. At that time, the CMA representative should explain all compensation schemes that may be available in the case, including the
following:
     a. An ex gratia award under Article VIII, paragraph 6, of the NATO SOFA.
     b. A claim under Article 139, UCMJ.
     c. Direct compensation by the Servicemember if any payments or offers of payment have already been made by the Servicemember.
     d. Compensation available from the Servicemember’s third-party liability insurer or other third-party payer as part of a pretrial settlement.
The MOJ is more likely to grant U.S. waiver requests in cases involving personal injury or loss of or damage to property where Italian national victims have
formally indicated no interest in the alleged crimes being prosecuted in Italian courts and no interest in bringing civil actions against the alleged wrongdoers
in Italian courts. To this end, when possible, the CMA should approach the injured party or, if represented by counsel, his or her attorney, and explain the
potential advantages of proceeding with his or her monetary claims outside the Italian court system. If the injured party no longer wishes for the case to
proceed in Italian court, the CMA should have the injured party sign the following statement: “Dichiaro di NON avere interesse a constituirmi parte civile e
sono indifferente alla rinuncia della giurisdizione da parte delle Autorità italiane.” (Translation: I hereby state I am NOT interested in starting a legal action
and that I am indifferent if jurisdiction is renounced by Italian authorities.) This statement should then be filed along with the U.S. waiver request at the time
the waiver request is delivered to the cognizant Italian prosecutor or as soon as possible thereafter.

6
  Depending on the type of violation allegedly committed, a preliminary hearing may be held before the summons to court for the first hearing is issued.
Under Article 424, et seq., of the Italian CPP, a preliminary hearing ends with the judge’s decision to either acquit (for example, non luogo a procedere) or
hold the accused over for trial (for example, rinvio a guidizio). The decision is read at the end of the hearing and is equivalent to the summons to court. The
accused must then still be served, but service may be made up to 20 days before the trial date. Consequently, a waiver request, if not filed previously, should
be filed at the preliminary hearing.

7
 On 1 June 1993, the MOJ issued a circolare (ref K-1g) to all prosecutors of the courts of appeal reminding them to follow the provisions of the NATO
SOFA that pertain to criminal jurisdiction.
                                                                               83
                                        AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    f. Obtaining Information from Italian Authorities. CMAs will take the following action when
Italian judicial authorities do not provide information in a timely manner:

        (1) Review the general register (registro generale delle notizie di reato) at the prosecutor’s office
for notice of offense recordings (iscrizione nel registro delle notizie di reato).

       (2) If a penal action may be forthcoming, check with local police authorities who have
investigative jurisdiction over the incident. The inquiry should refer to any complaints filed and include
a request for information concerning which prosecutor’s office is handling the case.

        (3) The CMA should file the request for waiver of jurisdiction (iscrizione nel registro delle
notizie di reato or iscrizione nel registro degli indagati) with the prosecutor as soon as penal
proceedings are underway.

       (4) To obtain a timely notice of charges, CMAs must establish, cultivate, and maintain strong
working relationships with prosecutors and clerks at the Procura della Repubblica. At the same time,
military law-enforcement offices should promote and sustain strong working relationships with local
law-enforcement authorities.

   g. Action When a Waiver Request is Granted. When a waiver request is granted—

      (1) The USSSO will notify the CMA when the General Directorate Penal Affairs of the Italian
MOJ issues the waiver of jurisdiction.

      (2) Military commanders will then take whatever disciplinary or other action is appropriate
without delay.

        (3) CMAs will report case-disposition information to the USSSO when the Italian MOJ requests
it and when the Italian MOJ grants a U.S. waiver request against the recommendations of the prosecutor,
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or both. Reports of case disposition will include the following:

           (a) The date and type of proceeding.

           (b) A summary of the offenses or misconduct considered by the proceeding.

           (c) A summary of the findings of the proceeding.

           (d) Administrative or disciplinary action ordered.

K-25. ACTION WHEN A WAIVER REQUEST IS DENIED
If the Italian MOJ denies a U.S. request for waiver of jurisdiction, the CMA will inform the USSSO of
the developments and conclusion of the case. DD Form 1936 may be used to provide this information,
although no particular format is required for the report.

K-26. REQUESTS FOR PAYMENT OF ATTORNEY FEES AND TRIAL EXPENSES BY
MILITARY PERSONNEL
The United States may pay attorney fees and trial expenses in Italian criminal cases at the trial and
appellate levels if the accused is subject to the UCMJ at the time he or she requests this.

                                                        84
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   a. The United States may pay fees and expenses in any of the following circumstances:
       (1) If the accused committed the alleged offense during the performance of official duty.
       (2) If the sentence for the alleged offense normally includes confinement, but is suspended.
       (3) If the case is on appeal from any proceeding in which it appears that the substantial rights of
the accused have been denied.
       (4) If a conviction for the alleged offense could later be used as a basis for administrative-
discharge proceedings for misconduct as a result of the civil-court disposition.
        (5) If the case may substantially affect relations between the U.S. Forces and the Government of
Italy or may otherwise adversely affect U.S. interests.
    b. CMAs and unit commanders should direct requests for counsel and payment of defense expenses
resulting from Italian criminal prosecutions to the appropriate CLA.
   c. The requirement in reference K-1f for coordination with and approval by the USCR (OIC,
USSSO) before private defense counsel may be retained on behalf of U.S. Servicemembers is hereby
waived.
   d. The DCO and USSSO will be information addressees on any electronic messages requesting
counsel and payment of defense expenses, and will be given copies of any other written requests.

K-27. REQUESTS FOR PAYMENT OF ATTORNEY FEES AND TRIAL EXPENSES BY U.S.
CIVILIANS
    a. The United States may pay attorney fees and trial expenses for members of the civilian component
in either criminal or civil Italian court cases arising out of the performance of official duties.
    b. For all other cases involving U.S. civilian personnel, including command-sponsored dependents of
U.S. Servicemembers and U.S. civilian personnel, the United States may, pursuant to 10 USC 1037, pay
attorney fees and expenses. Requests must be processed according to references K-1e and f and service
regulations.
   c. The United States will not pay attorney fees and trial expenses for DOD contractors (technical
representatives) and their employees, and for noncommand-sponsored dependents.
    d. The requirement in reference K-1f for coordination with and approval by the USCR before
retention of private defense counsel on behalf of U.S. civilian personnel is hereby waived.

K-28. REQUESTS FOR PAYMENT OF ATTORNEY FEES AND TRIAL EXPENSES OF
EXPENSES FOR ITALIAN EMPLOYEES
    a. An Italian employee of the U.S. Forces acting within the scope of employment at the time of the
incident is entitled to request free legal defense by the State Attorney’s Office (Avvocatura dello Stato)
in criminal or civil actions.
   b. Supervisors should advise the employee to request this representation. Requests must be written
on plain paper and sent to Avvocatura Generale dello Stato, Via dei Portoghesi, 12, 00186 Roma.


                                                        85
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   c. The employee’s supervisor and commander of the activity where the employee is assigned should
endorse the request.
   d. The request and original writ of summons should be sent to the USSSO.
   e. If the Italian employee retains private counsel, the USSSO must be notified of the employee’s
decision.

K-29. RIGHTS UNDER THE NATO SOFA
The NATO SOFA provides that whenever a member of a force or civilian component or one of their
dependents is prosecuted under the jurisdiction of a receiving State, the defendant is entitled to the
following:

   a. A prompt and speedy trial.

   b. To be informed before the trial of the specific charge or charges made against him or her.

   c. To be confronted with the witnesses against him or her.

    d. Compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his or her favor, if he or she is within the
jurisdiction of the receiving State.

   e. Legal representation of his or her own choice for his or her defense or to have free or assisted legal
representation under the conditions prevailing for the time being in the receiving State.

   f. Services of a competent interpreter, if the accused considers it necessary.

    g. To communicate with a representative of the Government of the sending State and, when the rules
of the court permit, to have such a representative present at his or her trial.

K-30. INTERPRETERS

   a. Article 143 of reference K-1g requires Italian courts to appoint interpreters at no cost for an
accused who does not “know the Italian language.”

    b. CMAs, CLAs, and unit commanders may provide interpreters and translation services to the
extent permitted by service regulations, command policy, and applicable Italian law when not provided
by Italian authorities.

K-31. TRIAL OBSERVERS

   a. Appointment. The OIC, USSSO, appoints trial observers under authority delegated from the U.S.
Ambassador to Italy. CMAs and CLAs will send recommendations to the USSSO to obtain such
appointments.

   b. Assignment.

       (1) Lawyer Trial Observers. The CMA, CLA, or unit commander will ensure that one or more
lawyer trial observers, previously appointed by the OIC, USSSO, attend Italian court proceedings when
U.S. personnel are tried in the following circumstances:
                                                        86
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
           (a) For an offense that involves serious personal injuries or extensive property damage.
           (b) For an offense that usually results in a sentence to confinement (suspended or not).

       (2) Prior Representation. Under no circumstances may a lawyer who has previously served in
the capacity of trial counsel or counsel for an accused in a matter arising out of the same circumstances
subsequently act as trial observer at a foreign trial of the same accused.

       (3) Preliminary Hearing Attendees.
          (a) U.S. military trial observers are prohibited under reference K-1g from attending
preliminary hearings.
           (b) The accused’s Italian defense counsel must attend the hearing.
           (c) The CMA’s Italian bar-member legal advisor should also attend, if permitted by the court.

       (4) Non-Lawyer Trial Observers.
          (a) In circumstances other than those listed in paragraph K-31b(1), the CMA, CLA, or the
accused’s unit commander may assign a non-lawyer as a trial observer.
           (b) Non-lawyer trial observers are permitted for trials in absentia.

      (5) Referrals. Pursuant to reference K-1f, unit commanders may request that CMAs provide trial
observers in their designated areas.

   c. Trial Observer Functions. The functions of a trial observer are as follows:

        (1) Review the police reports and supporting documents to become thoroughly familiar with the
facts in the case before the trial.

      (2) Attend the trial and all proceedings associated with it, note the progress of the trial, and
complete a formal report as provided in paragraph K-31d.

        (3) Immediately report by telephone or fax to the USSSO and the CMA any violations of trial
safeguards as well as any discrimination against the accused based on race, creed, sex, color, or national
origin.

        (4) Remind defense counsel before the hearing to request the court to note the presence of the
trial observer in the hearing minutes.

      (5) On request, the trial observer will help the court and defense counsel obtain witnesses and
evidence available from U.S. Government sources.

      (6) The trial observer is not a member of the defense team. He or she does not sit at the defense
counsel’s table and is not to interject him- or herself into the trial proceedings.

       (7) If the occasion necessitates and circumstances permit, the trial observer will advise the
defense counsel of the rights of the accused under references K-1a and g.

                                                        87
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
        (8) The trial advisor will inform the defense counsel should a U.S. request for waiver of
jurisdiction still be outstanding.
       (9) Neither the trial observer nor other command representatives will perform translation services
during Italian court hearings (para K-30).

    d. Trial Observer Report. The trial observer will prepare a formal report of the trial and all
appellate proceedings in accordance with the requirements set forth in reference K-1f. The report will
assess whether there was any failure to comply with the procedural safeguards secured by the NATO
SOFA and its implementing agreements, and whether the accused received a fair trial under all the
circumstances.
       (1) Due Date. The trial observer will complete and send the report to the USSSO not later than
14 days after the conclusion of the trial or appellate proceeding. The trial observer will not delay the
report because of the possibility of subsequent proceedings.
       (2) Postponements.
           (a) No report is required when a court, either on motion of counsel or sua sponte, orders a
delay in further proceedings as long as no other substantive business is conducted during the hearing.
          (b) An account of the hearing and the reasons for the postponement will be included in the
next submitted trial observer’s report.
            (c) Coordination should be made with the USSSO whenever clarification of this policy is
required.
       (3) Distribution. The trial observer, staff judge advocate, or (when applicable) the Commanding
Officer, TSO EURSWA, will submit an original and six copies of the report to the USSSO through
appropriate command or technical channels.

K-32. CONFINEMENT POLICY
DOD seeks to ensure that foreign authorities treat U.S. military personnel fairly when in their custody.
When U.S. military personnel are confined (pretrial, during trial, and post-trial) in foreign penal
institutions, DOD seeks to ensure that the prisoners experience the same treatment and receive the same
rights, privileges, and protections as personnel confined in U.S. military facilities. These rights include
legal assistance, visitation, medical attention, food, bedding, clothing, and other health and comfort
supplies. If it is neither practical nor economical for the prisoner to arrange for supplies of food, the unit
commander may arrange for purchases on behalf of the prisoner from institution commissaries or other
suitable sources. Service regulations may also authorize cash allowances (health and comfort pay) to
Servicemembers for such purchases.

   a. Command Responsibilities.

       (1) The unit commander is responsible for implementing DOD and service policy on the
confinement of U.S. personnel in foreign institutions.

       (2) The unit commander should contact the CLA for assistance.

     (3) The CLA will either provide the required services or have such services provided by the
CMA closest to the place of confinement.
                                                         88
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   b. Visiting and Examining Prisoners.
         (1) Judge Advocates and Chaplains.
           (a) Judge advocates and chaplains will visit U.S. personnel confined in an Italian penal
institution—
               1. Within 48 hours after initial confinement (or soon thereafter if Italian authorities do not
allow visitation within the first 48 hours).
                 2. At least once every 30 days thereafter.
           (b) CMAs will provide a judge advocate or legal officer visitor within their areas of
responsibility. Reference K-1f applies.
              (c) These visits do not substitute for command-representative visits required by other
directives.
         (2) Medical Personnel.
          (a) A physical examination will be given to Servicemembers within 48 hours before they are
surrendered to foreign authorities for confinement (pretrial, during trial, or post-trial). Reference K-1e
applies.
          (b) If a physical examination cannot be made before confinement, arrangements will be made
to make the examination at the earliest possible time after confinement.
           (c) A medical officer (physician, physician’s assistant, or staff nurse) will visit U.S. personnel
confined in a foreign penal institution—
                 1. Within 30 days after initial confinement.
                 2. At least once every 90 days thereafter.
       (3) Service Affiliation. Judge advocates, chaplains, and medical personnel visiting incarcerated
Servicemembers normally will be of the same military service as the confinee.
         (4) Exceptions.
              (a) Only the DCO may approve requests for exceptions to the requirements in (1) through (3)
above.
          (b) Requests for exceptions must be sent to the DCO through appropriate command channels;
the OIC, USSSO; and the Fleet Judge Advocate, USNAVEUR.
    c. Permission to Visit Prisoners. Visitors must obtain permission from Italian authorities before
visiting prisoners.
         (1) Visits by Family Members.
            (a) Pretrial Custody. The presiding judicial authority is the deciding official for requests to
visit prisoners in pretrial custody.
              (b) Post-Trial Confinement. The prison director is the deciding official for visitation
requests.
                                                           89
                             AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (2) Visits by Non-Family Members. Before a prison visit, requests by Family members to visit
prisoners may need to be submitted in advance to the prison’s district inspector.

   d. Report of Prison Visitation.

       (1) An official visitor will prepare a report of each visit using DD Form 1602. The report will be
submitted in duplicate to the USSSO.

       (2) When a judge advocate makes a visit together with a chaplain, medical officer, or both, the
judge advocate will submit the required report of the visit on behalf of the visiting team.

   e. Prison Deficiencies.

       (1) If a visitor notes any deficiency that endangers the physical, mental, or moral well-being of
any prisoner, the deficiency will be reported immediately to both the CMA and the USSSO.

       (2) Follow-up visits will take place not more than 15 days after noting the deficiency and not less
frequently than every 15 days thereafter until Italian authorities correct the deficiency.

   f. Release from Italian Confinement.

     (1) The CMA will obtain from Italian authorities the anticipated date of release of a prisoner. The
CMA will arrange with Italian authorities for the delivery of the released prisoner to the appropriate
command.

       (2) When a military prisoner is released, the unit commander will—

           (a) Direct the released prisoner to undergo a complete physical examination. The commander
will place one copy of the examination report in the individual’s service record and send one copy to the
USSSO.

           (b) Obtain a sworn statement, signed by the released prisoner, describing in detail the
treatment he or she received during confinement, and send a copy of the sworn statement through the
CMA to the USSSO within 48 hours after the prisoner’s release from confinement.

        (3) Except as otherwise provided for by reference K-1e, Servicemembers serving posttrial
confinement in Italian prisons will not be discharged or separated from the military until they complete
their confinement and return to the United States.

   g. Civilian Confinees.

       (1) Whenever possible, and even when other civilian confinees are not entitled to the same,
commanders will ensure that all U.S. personnel in foreign custody or confinement receive the same
treatment, rights, and support that are extended to U.S. Servicemembers.

       (2) Commanders should contact U.S. consular officials to notify them of confinements.




                                                        90
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
K-33. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

   a. Status Reports. The CMA will immediately notify the USSSO of any change in the status of any
case previously reported to the USSSO. This requirement is in addition to any other reporting
requirements set out in this instruction or in reference K-1f.

   b. Annual Reports.
       (1) The CLA will prepare the annual report as required in reference K-1f.
           (a) The TSO EURSWA will prepare the report for Navy and Marine Corps personnel.
           (b) OSJA, USASETAF, will prepare the report for Army personnel.
           (c) 31st Fighter Wing/JA will prepare the report for Air Force personnel.
      (2) These reports will be sent to the USSSO for transmittal through the DCO (and, where
appropriate, Army and Air Force component commands) to the respective judge advocates general.

K-34. CROSS-SERVICING
With the exception of defense-counsel and other associated fees, FCJ support (for example, trial
observers, prison visitations) will be provided on a nonreimbursable basis, even when the accused or
confinee is not affiliated with the service that provides the support.

K-35. U.S. EXTRADITION REQUESTS

    a. Requests by U.S. Federal and State authorities for the extradition of U.S. personnel from Italy to
the United States are not considered FCJ matters under the purview of this instruction.

    b. A CMA, CLA, or servicing staff judge advocate may afford prisoner visitation and other
assistance to individuals awaiting extradition to the United States to the extent allowed by 10 USC 1037,
Federal statutes, and service regulations.

    c. Advice on U.S. extradition requests should be obtained through the component service’s legal
technical channels.

K-36. RELEASE OF EVIDENCE BY ITALIAN AUTHORITIES

    a. When U.S. commands require evidence in the possession of Italian officials to successfully
prosecute U.S. personnel, the CMA and military law-enforcement authorities should try to obtain the
release of the evidence from Italian officials. If such attempts fail, the matter should be referred to the
USSSO.

    b. The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) may formally request the Italian MOJ to render assistance
in criminal investigations and procedures, and to obtain needed assistance in courts-martial and other
criminal prosecutions heard by U.S. courts.

    c. The responsible agency at the U.S. Embassy for filing requests is the DOJ Attaché’s Office at
civilian (06) 4674-2680. All potential requests for assistance to the DOJ must first be coordinated with
the USSSO.

                                                         91
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
K-37. COMMUNICATION WITH THE USSSO
All commanders, judge advocates, and legal advisors are authorized to communicate directly with
USSSO personnel by using the following contact information:

   a. Civilian telephone: (0039) 06-4674-2303/2153/2354.

   b. Civilian fax: (0039) 06-4674-2653.

   e. Electronic message address: USSSO ROME IT//OIC//.

   f. Military address: USSSO PSC 59, Box 65, APO AE 09624.

   g. Italian address: USSSO, c/o Ambasciata Americana, Via Vittorio Veneto, 119/A, 00187 Roma.




                                                       92
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX L
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION—LUXEMBOURG

10 August 2005 (updated September 2007)

          U.S. COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION FOR LUXEMBOURG

L-1. PURPOSE
These instructions establish procedures for exercising criminal jurisdiction in the Grand Duchy of
Luxembourg over U.S. personnel.

L-2. APPLICABILITY
These instructions apply to all U.S. personnel as defined in the Tri-Service Regulation who are stationed
in, on temporary duty in, or traveling in Luxembourg.

L-3. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CRIMINAL JURISDICTION MATTERS
The U.S. Country Representative, the Commander of the 52d Fighter Wing, is the single POC for
military services with the Luxembourg Government in all matters relating to Luxembourg criminal
jurisdiction over U.S. personnel. Criminal-jurisdiction functions are performed for the 52d Fighter Wing
Commander by the Staff Judge Advocate of the 52d Fighter Wing. The Staff Judge Advocate may be
contacted as follows:

   52 FW/JA
   PSC 9, Box 205
   APO AE 09126-0205
   DSN: 452-6796/6797
   Civilian: (0049) (0) 6565-4445
   Fax: DSN 452-7500
   Civilian: (0049) (0) 6565-4991
   e-mail: 52fw.jaadm@spangdahlem.af.mil

L-4. ORIENTATION OF PERSONNEL ENTERING LUXEMBOURG
Commanders of U.S. personnel intending to enter Luxembourg will advise their personnel of the
provisions of Articles II and VII of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA). Commanders will
do this by instructing personnel that it is their duty to respect the laws of Luxembourg and to abstain
from activity inconsistent with the NATO SOFA and, in particular, from political activity in
Luxembourg. Commanders will further instruct personnel that the Luxembourg authorities have
jurisdiction to prosecute U.S. personnel and their Family members with respect to offenses committed in
the territory of Luxembourg. Commanders will also advise personnel of their individual reporting
responsibilities in paragraph L-7.

L-5. REPORTING BY COMMANDERS
Commanders will notify immediately the Staff Judge Advocate of the 52d Fighter Wing of—

   a. Any incident by personnel in their command that will or may result in criminal proceedings in
Luxembourg. The initial telephone report will be confirmed using AE Form 550-50A.

   b. The receipt by a member of their command of a summons, subpoena, or request to appear before a
Luxembourg court or police official.

                                                       93
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   c. Information that an individual in their command has been taken into custody by the Luxembourg
authorities. Only the 52d Fighter Wing Staff Judge Advocate is authorized to negotiate with the
Luxembourg authorities for the release from custody of U.S. personnel.

L-6. JURISDICTIONAL MATTERS
Requests for waiver of the right of Luxembourg to exercise criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel
will be made by the Staff Judge Advocate of the 52d Fighter Wing. No other individual or office will
make requests to, or negotiate with, the Luxembourg authorities.

L-7. INDIVIDUAL’S RESPONSIBILITY
Individuals will immediately report to their commander—

     a. Any incident, motor-vehicle accident, or traffic offense involving themselves or their dependents
if it involves, or may involve, a violation of Luxembourg law.

    b. The receipt of a summons, subpoena, or request to appear before a Luxembourg judicial tribunal
or police authority.

L-8. LIMIT ON TRANSFER
U.S. military authorities will notify the Staff Judge Advocate of the 52d Fighter Wing before U.S.
personnel involved in or suspected of incidents that may result in the exercise of Luxembourg criminal
jurisdiction are transferred or reassigned.

L-9. MILITARY POLICE REPORTS
U.S. military police or criminal investigation authorities will immediately notify the Staff Judge
Advocate of the 52d Fighter Wing of all known facts and provide all reports concerning incidents
involving personnel over which Luxembourg has criminal jurisdiction.

L-10. REPORTS
The Staff Judge Advocate of the 52d Fighter Wing is responsible for reports relating to the exercise of
Luxembourg criminal jurisdiction, including annual reports, quarterly confinement reports, trial observer
reports, and prison-visit reports required by the Tri-Service Regulation.

L-11. LUXEMBOURG TRIALS
Trials of U.S. personnel and dependents before Luxembourg courts will be attended by a qualified
lawyer trial observer of the Staff Judge Advocate Office, 52d Fighter Wing. A report of the trial will be
prepared and sent to the appropriate addressees in accordance with the Tri-Service Regulation.

L-12. COURT COSTS AND COUNSEL FEES
Court costs and counsel fees will be provided at U.S. Government expense in appropriate cases. Funding
of these expenses is the responsibility of the military service of which the accused is a member. The
Staff Judge Advocate Office, 52d Fighter Wing, will make the initial arrangements, subject to
coordination with and approval by the appropriate representatives of the three services, for attorney fees
and court costs.




                                                        94
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX M
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION—THE NETHERLANDS

30 August 1996 (updated September 2007)

       U.S. COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION FOR THE NETHERLANDS

M-1. PURPOSE
The purpose of this instruction is to establish procedures for processing criminal cases involving U.S.
military personnel arrested in the Netherlands for violations of Dutch law.

M-2. PROCEDURES FOR U.S. ARMY PERSONNEL

   a. In most cases where a U.S. Army Soldier is arrested by Dutch authorities, he or she is taken by
them to the United States Army Garrison (USAG) Schinnen where he or she is held by U.S. Army
authorities until receipt of the message from the CG, USAREUR/7A, described in subparagraph c
below. In minor cases (for example, traffic offenses, possession of small amounts of contraband), the
Soldier is simply released and U.S. authorities are notified.

    b. In other than minor cases, the USAG Schinnen (action office: the Netherlands Law Center)
notifies the Office of the Judge Advocate (OJA), HQ USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-IL), that Dutch
authorities have released a Soldier (not stationed in the Netherlands) to U.S. Army custody. The OJA,
HQ USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-IL), then sends a message to the Soldier’s unit describing the case and
directing verification of personal data, flagging of records, and dispatch of return message indicating
these acts. A return message will be sent directly from the unit to the OJA, HQ USAREUR/7A
(AEAJA-IL), Unit 29351, APO AE 09014-9351, without delay.

    c. When the OJA, HQ USAREUR/7A, informs the Netherlands Law Center by message that a
Soldier’s records have been flagged by his or her unit outside the Netherlands, the Soldier will be taken
to the border by the USAG Schinnen military police (MP) and transferred to the USAREUR MP, or will
be returned to his or her unit by train. If the return is effected by air police-MP channels, the MP will
normally escort the Soldier to Frankfurt/Main, Germany, or another airport for pickup by his or her unit.

    d. On return of the Soldier to his or her unit, U.S. Army authorities will ensure that the Soldier
remains in the receiving state until a waiver by the Dutch authorities of their primary right to exercise
jurisdiction is received, and will commence disciplinary or administrative action or both, as appropriate
(AE Reg 27-10). Such action will not be delayed pending receipt of the waiver, and the unit commander
will immediately begin an informal investigation of the incident in accordance with paragraph 32,
Manual for Courts-Martial, United States (2005 edition), using all available evidence. Final disciplinary
action (including imposition of nonjudicial punishment), however, will not be taken until the waiver of
Dutch jurisdiction has been received.

    e. According to the Dutch interpretation of Article VII of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement, the
right to exercise jurisdiction does not include the right to investigate. The Dutch Koninklijke
Marechaussee (Dutch Royal MP) has the primary right to investigate offenses committed in the
Netherlands involving the U.S. military, members of the civilian component, and their dependents. If
requested, the Dutch Royal MP will cooperate with U.S. military investigative authorities. A criminal
investigation will not be conducted by U.S. authorities without prior coordination with the host nation.
Assistance in coordination can be obtained through the Netherlands Law Center.
                                                        95
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    f. According to a Dutch Ministry of Justice (MOJ) Directive, 19 February 1981, for NATO military
personnel stationed in the Netherlands, in concurrent jurisdiction cases involving general crimes; drug
offenses; offenses against the public order; specific traffic offenses such as driving under the influence
(first offenders only), fleeing the scene of an accident, and accidents with injuries; a waiver is usually
granted. The same directive considers traffic offenses in general as being exclusive Dutch jurisdiction
cases and are taken care of by the host-nation judiciary by means of fines.

    g. The Dutch authorities will continue their investigation and prepare a report of investigation
(known as a proces verbaal). On completion, the proces verbaal is sent to the district public prosecutor
for his or her recommendation. The proces verbaal is then forwarded to the Dutch MOJ. The Dutch
authorities then decide whether or not to waive their primary right to exercise jurisdiction. If a waiver is
granted, which is usually the case, the Dutch MOJ forwards the proces verbaal to the Netherlands Law
Center.

    h. Issuance of the proces verbaal by the Dutch MOJ ordinarily coincides with and signifies a waiver
of the primary right to exercise jurisdiction to U.S. authorities within the meaning of paragraph 3(c),
Article VII, NATO SOFA. This waiver can be granted by the Dutch MOJ before the proces verbaal is
issued, or vice versa. On being advised of a waiver by the Netherlands Law Center, the OJA, HQ
USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-IL), will promptly inform the accused’s command regarding these
developments. If action is deemed appropriate in a particular case, the U.S. authorities, on notification of
the waiver, should respond appropriately in order to maintain the Government’s diligence with a view
toward eventual court-martial proceedings. The period of time between the arrest and the waiver is
usually 60 to 120 days, depending on the case.

     i. On receipt of the proces verbaal from Dutch authorities, the Netherlands Law Center will translate
it into English. The documents are then mailed to the OJA, HQ USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-IL), Unit
29351, APO AE 09014-9351. On receipt, the OJA, HQ USAREUR/7A, will forward the documents to
the Soldier’s general court-martial convening authority (SJA-IA) for appropriate action (for example,
preparation of charges, Article 32 investigation).

    j. The Soldier’s general court-martial (GCM) SJA will inform the OJA, HQ USAREUR/7A
(AEAJA-IL), regarding the action taken. Suspense dates assigned by the OJA, HQ USAREUR/7A
(AEAJA-IL), will be strictly observed. From that point on, the OJA, HQ USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-IL),
will inform the Netherlands Law Center of actions taken.

    k. If a case is brought to trial, the presence of one or more of the Dutch arresting officers or other
persons may be required as witnesses at the Article 32 investigation or the trial. To obtain the required
Dutch witnesses, the GCM SJA should communicate directly with the Netherlands Law Center to make
the necessary arrangements with the Dutch authorities. Such requests will be honored only if made by a
message that has been personally approved by the GCM SJA and has the OJA, HQ USAREUR/7A
(AEAJA-IL), listed as the information addressee. Coordination with the Dutch MOJ may be made solely
by the Netherlands Law Center acting for the U.S. country representative. At least 4 weeks of lead time
is recommended in order for this coordination to be completed. The SJA should examine the proces
verbaal immediately on receipt and request the required Dutch witnesses. Messages to the Netherlands
Law Center must include the following information:

       (1) The full identification of the accused.

       (2) The date and place of the incident.
                                                        96
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
      (3) The full name, date of birth, and address of the witnesses, if known. (This information is
normally stated in the proces verbaal.)

       (4) The date and place of the Article 32 investigation or trial.

       (5) The anticipated length of time the witnesses’ presence will be required.

      (6) The date and time, specific address, and specific person to whom the witnesses are to report
and any specific travel arrangements.

       (7) The rate and travel pay and witness fees to be paid to the witnesses. (If subsequent
developments make use of a Dutch witness unnecessary, the GCM SJA will promptly notify the
Netherlands Law Center by message.)

   l. If requested, the Netherlands Law Center can provide interpreter services for witnesses.
Invitational travel orders will be arranged and per diem paid by the GCM SJA.

   m. A separate message is required to obtain witnesses for each stage of the proceedings (to obtain
witnesses for the Article 32 investigation and to obtain witnesses for the trial itself).

    n. Except for the message described in k(7) above and subsequent communications relating to the
same request, no communication will be had with U.S. legal liaison authorities in the Netherlands
without prior approval of the OJA, HQ USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-IL). Under no circumstances will U.S.
authorities communicate directly with Dutch authorities or make visits or arrangements in the
Netherlands without prior approval of the OJA, HQ USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-IL). Requests for
interrogation before the Article 32 investigation or trial will be processed in the same manner as requests
for appearance of witnesses at the Article 32 investigation or trial.

   o. No military authority, either trial or defense counsel, is authorized direct contact with any Dutch
witness without a prior request to, and approval by, the Netherlands Law Center as prescribed in
subparagraph k above.

M-3. PROCEDURES FOR AIR FORCE AND NAVY PERSONNEL
The procedures in paragraph M-2 apply to cases involving Navy and Air Force personnel, except that
notifications will be made to the HQ USAFE/JAI or COMUSNAVEUR/JA, as appropriate.




                                                        97
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX N
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION—NORWAY

4 March 2001 (updated September 2007)

N-1. PURPOSE
These instructions are issued to implement subject regulations and directives on the exercise of foreign
criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel. The contents are intended to clarify the duties and
responsibilities of U.S. authorities in Norway relative to matters involving the exercise of foreign
criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel in Norway.

N-2. AUTHORITY
This instruction is issued by the U.S. Country Representative, Norway (Joint Warfare Centre, Stavanger,
Norway), in accordance with the authority granted in AE Regulation 550-50/CNE-C6F Instruction
5820.8K/USAFE Instruction 51-706. This instruction supersedes the previous Norway Country
Representative Instruction dated 29 October 1985. Changes were made to identify the appropriate legal
advisor, clarify that the authority to contact Norwegian authorities regarding criminal jurisdiction is
exclusively vested in the USCR Norway, and make minor administrative changes.

N-3. APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE
This instruction applies to all U.S. personnel, as defined in paragraph N-4a, stationed in or passing
through the Kingdom of Norway.

N-4. EXPLANATION OF TERMS

   a. U.S. Personnel. As used in this instruction, U.S. military and civilian personnel and their
dependents in Norway who are subject to the provisions of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement
(SOFA).

  b. Legal Advisor. The Staff Judge Advocate, 426th Air Base Squadron (USAFE), Unit 6655, APO
AE 09706-6655, APO AE 09706-6655; DSN 224-0532; civilian (47) 51 95 05 32.

N-5. RESPONSIBILITIES

   a. U.S. Country Representative, Norway. The U.S. Country Representative, Norway, or the Legal
Advisor at his or her discretion and on his or her behalf, acts as the single POC with Norwegian
authorities and the U.S. Embassy, Oslo, for matters relating to the exercise of criminal jurisdiction over
U.S. personnel in Norway.

   b. Commanders.

        (1) Commanders will establish procedures to ensure that personnel under their command are
advised of their rights and obligations under the NATO SOFA, including respecting the laws of Norway,
refraining from engaging in political activities in Norway, their amenability to the criminal jurisdiction
of Norway, and their rights and duties relating to customs privileges in Norway. This advice will be
given to personnel as soon after their arrival in Norway as practicable. Commanders should avail
themselves of the Legal Advisor’s briefing program for incoming personnel on this matter.



                                                        98
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
      (2) Commanders will promptly inform the U.S. Country Representative, Norway, and the Legal
Advisor of any act or omission by U.S. personnel under their command that involves Norwegian interest
and could result in one of the following:
           (a) Criminal proceedings by Norwegian courts.
           (b) A claim against the U.S. Government.
           (c) Substantial public interest.
           (d) Adverse public relations that would be detrimental to the United States.

       (3) Without prior approval of the U.S. Country Representative, Norway, U.S. military authorities
will not permit the transfer or reassignment of U.S. military personnel or provide transportation at
Government expense outside of Norway for civilian employees or Family members accused of or
suspected to be invovled in incidents likely to result in the exercise of foreign criminal jurisdiction by
Norway. However, commanders will inform the U.S. Country Representative when unusual
circumstances or service directives urgently require the individual’s transfer.

           (a) Commanders will ensure that an administrative hold is placed on U.S. military personnel
under their command, and on U.S. personnel who are not assigned or attached but fall under their
custodial responsibility, who are accused of or suspected to be involved in incidents likely to result in
the exercise of foreign criminal jurisdiction by Norway. This is necessary to prevent personnel actions
that would authorize the departure of these persons from Norway without the prior approval of the U.S.
Country Representative, Norway.

           (b) Commanders accepting custody of such personnel will notify the individual’s unit, the
servicing personnel office, and the appropriate transportation authorities that custodial responsibility has
been assumed and that an administrative hold is required. Furthermore, commanders will impound,
where appropriate, all documents relating to the individual that might assist in his or her unauthorized
departure from Norway by any means, and will establish other appropriate controls to enhance the
effectiveness of the custody.

           (c) Commanders will advise such personnel, by a memorandum with acknowledgment
required, that an administrative hold has been instituted and that they are not to depart Norway until
such departure is personally approved by the U.S. Country Representative, Norway.

         (d) Commanders will notify the appropriate traffic management office (TMO) by
memorandum that the TMO must not provide such personnel any type of Government transportation
from Norway without the prior approval of the U.S. Country Representative, Norway, and must rescind
any TMO actions that may have been completed permitting such transportation.

          (e) Commanders will not approve the permanent change of station (PCS), temporary duty
(TDY), pass, or leave for these individuals without the specific approval of the U.S. Country
Representative, Norway, if their unapproved departure from Norway is anticipated.

       (4) Contact with local police or judicial authorities by unit commanders or other U.S. military
authorities to obtain release from custody or waiver of jurisdiction is prohibited. Commanders are to
communicate directly with the U.S. Country Representative, Norway, and the Legal Advisor about
matters involving the exercise of criminal jurisdiction over personnel under their command.
                                                         99
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   c. Legal Advisor.

       (1) The Legal Advisor will establish procedures to ensure that he or she is notified immediately
by the Norwegian police of the arrest, detention, or apprehension of U.S. personnel by Norwegian
authorities and will, as appropriate, advise such U.S. personnel of their rights relative thereto.

       (2) The Legal Advisor will immediately notify the U.S. Country Representative, Norway; the
commander of the individual concerned or his or her designee; and the U.S. Consul, Norway, or his or
her designee; of the involvement of U.S. personnel in incidents resulting in their arrest, detention, or
apprehension by Norwegian authorities.

       (3) The Legal Advisor will help the U.S. Country Representative, Norway, prepare and submit
reports required under the provisions of AE Regulation 550-50/CNE-C6F Instruction 5820.8K/USAFE
Instruction 51-706.




                                                       100
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX O
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION—SPAIN

Office of Defense Cooperation (ODC) Policy Directive
No. 110.5
21 May 2002 (updated September 2007)

EXERCISE OF FOREIGN CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

NOTE: The U.S. Country Representative Instruction for Spain is included in ODC Policy Directive
Number 110.5, subject: Exercise of Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction, dated May 21, 2002, the text of which
is reproduced here in its entirety.


                          OFFICE OF DEFENSE COOPERATION, SPAIN
                                       APO AE 09642

ODC POLICY DIRECTIVE
(This PD supersedes ODC PD 110.5, 10 September 1999)
No. 110.5

                      EXERCISE OF FOREIGN CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

O-1. PURPOSE
This directive implements DOD Directive 5525.1, AR 27-50/SECNAVINST 5820.4G/AFJI 51-706,
USEUCOM Directive 45-3, AE Regulation 550-50/CNE-C6F Instruction 5820.8K/USAFE Instruction
51-706, Air Force Instruction 51-703, and the 1989 Agreement on Defense Cooperation between
America and the Kingdom of Spain. It establishes policy and procedures for U.S. authorities with
respect to the exercise of criminal jurisdiction by Spanish authorities over U.S. military and civilian
personnel in Spain.

O-2. SCOPE
This directive is applicable to members of the U.S. Armed Forces, military tourist personnel, the civilian
component, and dependents.

O-3. DEFINITIONS

    a. Member of the United States Armed Forces or Force: A person belonging to the land, sea, or
air armed services of the United States in the territory of Spain in connection with his or official duties,
except where the United States and Spain have mutually agreed that certain individuals, units, or
formations will not be regarded as constituting or included in a force for the purposes of the 1989
Agreement.

    b. Civilian Component: Civilian personnel accompanying a force of the United States who are in
the employ of an armed service of the United States and who are not stateless persons, nor nationals of
any state that is not a Party to the North Atlantic Treaty, nor nationals of, nor ordinarily resident in,
Spain. The term Civilian Component will also mean employees of a non-Spanish, noncommercial
organization agreed on by the Permanent Committee who are nationals or ordinarily resident.

                                                        101
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    c. Dependent: The spouse of a member of the U.S. Forces, of military tourist personnel, or of a
civilian component; or a child of such individual depending on him or her for support. The term
dependent will also include a parent of a member of the force or its civilian component, or of the spouse
of such a member, who is financially or for reasons of health dependent on and supported by such a
member, who shares the quarters occupied by such a member, and who is present in Spain with the
consent of the military authorities of the United States. On approval by the Permanent Committee, other
Family members may be included in this provision as dependents when warranted by special
circumstances.

   d. Military Tourist Personnel: Military personnel of the land, sea, and air armed services of the
United States who enter Spanish territory on leave or other authorized non-duty status.

    e. Military Authorities of the United States: Authorities that are empowered by law to enforce the
military laws or administrative regulations of the United States with respect to members of its forces or
civilian components.

    f. Commander: All references to Commander are intended to include the commander or his or her
designated representative, the deputy or vice commander, or the commissioned officer authorized to be
in command.

O-4. OUTLINE OF EXERCISE OF JURISDICTION
The military authorities of the United States exercise exclusive jurisdiction over members of the U.S.
Armed Forces and military tourist personnel in Spain with respect to offenses punishable by the law of
the United States but not by the law of Spain. Spanish authorities exercise exclusive jurisdiction over
U.S. military personnel and U.S. civilians in Spain with respect to offenses punishable by Spanish law
but not punishable by the law of the United States.

    a. Where an act or omission is punishable under the laws of both countries, there is a concurrent right
to exercise jurisdiction. Where the right is concurrent, the military authorities of the United States have
the primary right to exercise jurisdiction over a member of its forces, military tourist personnel, or a
civilian component in relation to the following:

       (1) Offenses solely against the property or security of the United States.

     (2) Offenses solely against the person or property of another member of the force or civilian
component or of a dependent.

       (3) When the offense arises out of an act or omission done in the performance of official duty.

   b. In all other cases of concurrent jurisdiction, the authorities of Spain will have the primary right to
exercise jurisdiction.

O-5. POLICY

    a. The Chief, ODC, Spain, acts as the country representative for foreign criminal jurisdiction (FCJ)
matters in Spain and as the single POC for processing all criminal cases involving U.S. personnel in
Spain. On behalf of the Chief, ODC, Spain, the Staff Judge Advocate, ODC (ODC/SJA), acts as the
single POC with the Spanish Group of Jurisdiction in the Permanent Committee in processing all
criminal cases involving personnel of the U.S. Armed Forces in Spain.
                                                       102
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    b. All cases where the United States exercises exclusive jurisdiction, primary jurisdiction, or
jurisdiction as a result of a waiver of the primary right by the authorities of Spain will be processed by
the U.S. military authorities in accordance with applicable U.S. laws or directives, including the
Uniform Code of Military Justice.
    c. In all cases in which members of the U.S. Armed Forces or the civilian component, dependents, or
military tourist personnel are tried by Spanish authorities, all necessary steps will be taken to ensure that
the individual receives a fair trial and is afforded the procedural rights, privileges, and protection
provided by Article VII, paragraph 9, of the NATO Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA).

O-6. CUSTODY

    a. Personnel who have knowledge of the arrest or detention by Spanish authorities of a member of
the U.S. Armed Forces, military tourist personnel, dependent, or member of the civilian component will
immediately report this information to the nearest U.S. consulate or the nearest military base, station, or
unit commander. When informed that Spanish authorities have apprehended a member of the U.S.
Armed Forces or a military tourist for the alleged commission of an offense that may result in detention
or confinement, U.S. military authorities will notify the ODC/SJA by the most expeditious means
available.
      (1) The ODC/SJA telephone number is civilian 34-91-543-2803 (within Spain but outside
Madrid: 91-543-2803). The ODC/SJA fax number is civilian 34-91-543-3207 (or 91-543-3207).
       (2) The notification must include all available information on the status of the individual, the
alleged offense, and the name of the court and prison.
    b. The custody of a member of the U.S. Armed Forces or military tourist personnel over whom
Spanish jurisdiction is being exercised will be requested by the military authorities of the United States
in accordance with Article 41 of the 1989 Agreement. Where such a request is granted, the U.S. military
authorities will give full consideration to the decision of the Spanish judicial authorities regarding
conditions of custody.
    c. U.S. military authorities will guarantee the appearance of a member of the U.S. Armed Forces or
military tourist personnel in the custody of the U.S. military authorities and over whom Spanish
jurisdiction is being exercised before the competent Spanish judicial authorities at their request. The
criminal proceedings in these cases will be subject to preferential treatment in accordance with the
provisions of Article VII of the NATO SOFA providing for a prompt and speedy trial. In any case, the
duration of provisional confinement provided under Spanish law will not be exceeded. Where custody
and control of the accused is entrusted to U.S. military authorities, it is the responsibility of those
authorities to inform the Spanish court (through the ODC/SJA) in advance of any situation in which
military jurisdiction over the accused will terminate. (For example, if the member’s term of service will
expire and the member will not voluntarily extend, the Spanish court must receive enough advance
notification to allow either a bail to be set or to permit arrangements for confinement of the accused in
Spain (e below).)
SPECIAL NOTE—Implications of the U.S. Guaranteeing Presence: When a Spanish court
relinquishes physical custody to U.S. military authorities for any reason at any stage of the judicial
proceedings, the responsibility the United States undertakes is great. Special care must be taken to
monitor the whereabouts of the accused and ensure the accused’s presence at all hearings. Every
superior of the accused must understand that failure to maintain control over the accused could lead to
the extremely serious case where the United States cannot live up to its international obligations.
                                                       103
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    d. In criminal proceedings in Spanish courts against a member of the force or a military tourist, the
following rules will apply:

       (1) If the court decrees provisional liberty without bail, the guarantee of subparagraph c above
will meet the obligation of periodic reporting required by Spanish laws.

       (2) If the court accepts bail from the member, the military authorities will be relieved of all
responsibility for custody.

       (3) If the court decrees provisional confinement without bail or the bail is not provided, the U.S.
military authorities may, if they have the appropriate powers, maintain the custody with restriction of
movements and effective vigilance. In this event, the time served in custody may be credited against any
sentence to confinement eventually adjudged.

    e. When assuming custody of a member of the force or a military tourist, the U.S. military authorities
will, when appropriate, inform the Spanish judge if the accused is going to ask to separate from service
before the trial is scheduled. This should be done at least 30 days before the expiration of the member’s
enlistment and after coordination with the ODC/SJA.

   f. Additional action to be taken includes the following:

       (1) Members of the U.S. Forces.

           (a) Whenever U.S. military authorities receive notification that a member of the U.S. Forces
is being detained or confined by Spanish authorities because of the commission of an offense, this
information will be communicated to the member’s military commander by the most expeditious means
available.

           (b) The member’s commander or his or her designated representative will immediately take
whatever action is deemed necessary, on as informal a basis as possible, to secure the release of the
individual involved to the custody of the U.S. military authorities. This should include providing a
written certification that the individual is a member of the U.S. Armed Forces and assurance that the
individual involved will be made available when required for any proceedings in connection with the
case in accordance with the 1989 Agreement.

       (2) Members of the Civilian Component and Dependents.

           (a) Whenever U.S. military authorities receive notification from Spanish authorities that a
member of the civilian component or a dependent is being detained or confined by Spanish authorities,
this information will be communicated to the military supervisor of the individual or the commander of
the dependent’s sponsor by the most expeditious means available.

           (b) The military supervisor or commander is responsible for ensuring that the ODC/SJA and
the appropriate American consul are notified of the pertinent facts by the most expeditious means
available.




                                                       104
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
            (c) The military supervisor or commander will take all possible action within his or her
authority and through designated representatives (for example, the Commander, U.S. Naval Activities,
Spain, Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction Officer (CNA/FCJ)) on as informal a basis as possible to secure the
release of the civilian involved to the U.S. military authorities. This may include providing a written
statement of the individual’s status. Because civilians are not subject to trial by court-martial during
peacetime, the statement must not include any guarantee that the individual will be kept in military
custody. However, the military supervisor or commander may assure the local authorities that the United
States will not transfer the accused at U.S. expense and, when appropriate, in cases of civilians that the
military authorities will use all reasonable means at their disposal to help ensure that claims for damages
to property or claims for personal injuries arising out of the incident are promptly settled.

         (3) Military Tourist Personnel.

           (a) Whenever U.S. military authorities receive notification that military tourist personnel are
being detained or confined by any Spanish authority, this information will be communicated
immediately by the most expeditious means available to the commander of the base or station nearest to
the court or authority detaining the individual and to the ODC/SJA, who will notify the member’s
commanding officer.

            (b) The base or station commander or his or her designated representative will immediately
take whatever action is deemed necessary on as informal a basis as possible to secure the release of the
individual to the custody of U.S. military authorities. This may include (if requested) providing
certification that the individual is a member of the U.S. Armed Forces and giving assurance that the
individual will be made available when required for any proceedings in connection with the case in
accordance with the 1989 Agreement.

  g. Action to obtain the release or transfer of custody of detained persons, whether formal or informal,
must be taken immediately and will continue as long as a reasonable possibility of success exists.

   h. Base and station commanders will implement local procedures to ensure that—

         (1) Local Spanish authorities have a U.S. military POC for providing arrest information at all
times.

         (2) Contact with the detained individual will be made by a U.S. representative.

       (3) The U.S. representative has available funds and items of personal hygiene and comfort to
give the detained individual when necessary and appropriate.

O-7. CRIMINAL JURISDICTION AND PROCESSING OF CASES

    a. Spain has recognized the particular importance of disciplinary control by the U.S. military
authorities over members of the force. Spanish authorities will give expeditious and sympathetic
consideration to requests for waivers of criminal jurisdiction made by the authorities of the United
States. Requests for waivers of this right will be in accordance with the following procedures:

       (1) A request for waiver of jurisdiction will be presented by the ODC/SJA to the Group of
Jurisdiction of the Permanent Committee within 30 days after the date the U.S. authorities become
aware of the initiation of proceedings against an accused.
                                                        105
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
        (2) The request will be reviewed by the Group of Jurisdiction of the Permanent Committee,
which, except in cases of particular significance to Spain, will recommend a waiver of criminal
jurisdiction to the appropriate Spanish authorities within 15 days.

    b. Immediately on being informed that a member of the U.S. Forces or civilian component has been
accused of or charged with a Spanish criminal offense, the Staff Judge Advocate, U.S. Naval Activities,
Spain (CNA/SJA), on behalf of the Commander, U.S. Naval Activities, Spain, will determine if the act
or omission occurred in the performance of official duties. The CNA/SJA will send to the ODC/SJA by
electronic message the full name, grade, and organization of each of the alleged offenders, and complete
factual information. A duty certificate, in triplicate and in English and Spanish, signed by the person’s
commander, and including all facts, must also be sent to the ODC/SJA.

    c. On receipt of information from the CNA/SJA, the ODC/SJA will certify the status of the
individual and do either of the following, as appropriate:
        (1) Inform the appropriate Spanish authorities that the act or omission is within the exclusive
jurisdiction of the United States or that the United States has primary right to exercise jurisdiction and
the reason why.
       (2) Request a waiver of the primary right to exercise jurisdiction from the Spanish authorities.

    d. Pending receipt of notification with respect to the jurisdiction in the case, U.S. military authorities
may take any preliminary action warranted, such as conducting a formal or informal investigation,
preferring charges, or otherwise preparing to dispose of the case. However, no final disciplinary action
will be taken unless and until the question of jurisdiction has been resolved in favor of the United States.

   e. Where the primary right of the United States to exercise jurisdiction is determined after an
investigation by Spanish authorities, or a waiver of the Spanish primary right to exercise jurisdiction is
granted, the ODC/SJA will notify the CNA/SJA and will provide the original Spanish-language
proceedings and investigative report for temporary use by U.S. military authorities.
       (1) The CNA/SJA will forward the proceedings to the commander of the individual concerned.
The command investigating officer will use the Spanish proceedings, along with any statements
included therein, in conjunction with a separate command investigation to determine which disciplinary
or administrative action may be appropriate and to record any information necessary to settle any actual
or potential claims arising out of the incident.
       (2) After taking appropriate action, the commander of the individual concerned will send a
detailed, final disposition report to the ODC through the CNA/SJA. The report must include the
following as a minimum:
           (a) A summary of the findings of the command’s investigation.
          (b) A full description of any disciplinary or administrative action taken or reasons why none
was taken or appropriate.
           (c) The status and amount of any claims.
           (d) Information as to the existence of insurance and the amount or status of any insurance
settlement.


                                                        106
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
        (3) As an official judicial document, the Spanish proceedings must be carefully preserved for
return to Spanish authorities. In forwarding the final disposition report, the proceedings must be
enclosed by the commander having temporary custody. Information from the final disposition report is
submitted by the ODC, Spain, to the Spanish authorities. Favorable Spanish responses to future requests
for waivers of jurisdiction will depend to some degree on the type of action taken by the U.S. military
authorities in past cases where jurisdiction has been waived in favor of the United States. Consequently,
the necessity for appropriate disciplinary or administrative action, and for a detailed final disposition
report cannot be overly emphasized.
    f. If the servicing SJA concerned believes that the preparation of a case by Spanish authorities or
their jurisdictional decision is being unduly delayed, or when other circumstances warrant, the SJA may
send a request by memorandum or electronic message to the ODC/SJA to expedite the processing of the
case. The request should include the following information:
       (1) The name, grade, and unit of the individual involved.
       (2) The date of the accident or incident.
       (3) The name and location of the court responsible for action on the case.

O-8. REVERSE FCJ WAIVERS
Though rare, the Government of Spain may seek to invoke the reciprocal FCJ provisions found in
Chapter V of the Agreement on Defense Cooperation. This would occur if a Spanish military member
training in the United States faced criminal charges in a U.S. court. In such cases, the following
procedures would be invoked:
    a. A formal request for jurisdiction is presented to the U.S. Section by the Spanish Section following
the guidelines found in Article 55 of the Agreement and using the U.S. format for such requests.
   b. This request and a legal memorandum by the ODC/SJA are presented to the Chief, ODC, Spain,
who makes a written recommendation on the case. The Chief’s recommendation is addressed to the
designated commanding officer (COMUSNAVEUR).
   c. The entire case file (Spanish request for jurisdiction, the ODC/SJA memorandum, and the Chief’s
recommendation) is forwarded to the designated commanding officer (COMUSNAVEUR, through the
Fleet Judge Advocate).
    d. The USNAVEUR/SJA, on behalf of the designated commanding officer, forwards the file to
Department of the Navy, Office of the Judge Advocate General, 200 Stovall Street, Alexandria, VA
22332-2400, with a recommendation. This office then obtains a DOD request for waiver addressed to
the U.S. court that has jurisdiction over the case.
   e. Once a waiver of U.S. jurisdiction is obtained, the ODC, Spain, should obtain a case-disposition
report from the Spanish authorities and forward it to the U.S. court that waived jurisdiction.

O-9. POLICY ON TRIAL OBSERVERS
    a. The Chief of the Diplomatic Mission appoints individuals qualified to serve as trial observers at
trials before Spanish tribunals.
    b. The trial observer will be given a memorandum of appointment by the CNA/SJA outlining his or
her duties and referring him or her to pertinent regulations for guidance and assistance.
                                                       107
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   c. If the trial observer is not fluent in Spanish, a capable interpreter will be provided by the service
command concerned to accompany and assist the observer.
    d. On completion of the trial, observers will submit seven copies of their reports within 7 days
through the CNA/SJA to the ODC/SJA. The ODC/SJA, after review and action thereon, will keep a
copy and send six copies of the report with a memorandum of endorsement to the designated
commanding officer (COMUSNAVEUR, through the Fleet Judge Advocate).
    e. If the official sentence, status as to appeals, or other trial information is not known within 7 days,
the trial observer should send an interim report and send a supplementary report when the missing
information is obtained.

O-10. INTERNATIONAL HOLD PROCEDURES
   a. The CNA/SJA and the ODC/SJA for U.S. Army personnel in Spain establish international hold
procedures to ensure that personnel are not transferred or otherwise allowed to depart Spain without
written permission.
   b. The following individuals will be placed on international hold:
       (1) Personnel accused in cases over which Spain has retained jurisdiction, whether in Spanish or
U.S. custody, or on provisional liberty without bail, but not longer than the period established under
Spanish law for provisional confinement.
       (2) Personnel whom Spanish officials request to remain within the jurisdiction to testify as a
witness in a pending criminal case or for other valid reasons, including their being the subject of active
criminal investigation. Such requests will not be denied without prior approval from the ODC/SJA.
   c. The minimum administrative hold procedures to be followed are as follows:
      (1) Military personnel will be ordered in writing not to depart Spain except on the specific
approval of their immediate commander and will be required to acknowledge the order in writing.
       (2) Members of the civilian component will be notified in writing and required to acknowledge in
writing that they will not be transferred, reassigned, or authorized U.S. Government-paid transportation
from Spain except on the specific approval of the military commander to whom they are responsible.
        (3) Adult dependents of military and civilian personnel will be notified in writing and requested
to acknowledge that they will not be transferred from Spain on military orders or provided transportation
except on the approval of their sponsor’s immediate commander. The sponsor of the dependent will also
be required to acknowledge the statement. In cases of dependents under the age of 16, the sponsor alone
will be required to make the acknowledgement.
        (4) The personnel records of military personnel on hold will be appropriately annotated to show
their hold status.
   d. International hold may be terminated (in misdemeanor cases) on receiving a recommendation
from the Group of Jurisdiction Committee recommending approval of the waiver request.
    e. International hold will be terminated on final disposition of the charges or expiration of terms
established by Spanish law for provisional prison, which count from the date of the incident, and when
approved by the ODC/SJA.

                                                        108
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
O-11. CONTRABAND CASES
    a. Contraband cases involving a value of 18,000 euros or more are classified as felonies (delitos) and
accorded punishments of 6 months to 6 years imprisonment and fines up to double the value of the
contraband. Jurisdiction in these cases lies with Spanish authorities. Contraband cases involving a value
of less than 18,000 euros are considered administrative infractions under the competence of
administrative officials.
   b. Base or station commanders will implement local procedures to ensure that—
       (1) Members of the U.S. personnel in Spain report their involvements in administrative
contraband cases.
       (2) Such cases are reported to the CNA/SJA, as appropriate.

O-12. COURT OF SOCIAL REHABILITATION (JUZGADO DE PELIGROSIDAD Y
REHABILITACION SOCIAL)
The authority of the Courts of Social Rehabilitation is limited to issuing deportation orders or orders for
hospitalization for drug rehabilitation and treatment. These orders are usually issued without a hearing
or trial. Therefore, international hold procedures (para O-10) based solely on cases pending in Courts of
Social Rehabilitation are not required. However, the incident giving rise to such cases may result in the
initiation of normal criminal proceedings in a Court of Instruction. Reasonable efforts should be made to
determine whether a related criminal case is pending before any decision is made to not use international
hold procedures.

O-13. CIVIL COURTS

   a. A recent modification of the Spanish Criminal Code established that many cases formerly
considered as offenses or misdemeanors are now to be processed as civil litigation cases.

   b. In accordance with the recent modification, all traffic accidents committed through simple
negligence that do not involve infractions of regulations and that result in damages but no injuries are
excluded from criminal proceedings. Therefore, it is not possible to request a waiver of jurisdiction or
assert the U.S. primary right of jurisdiction in these cases.

   c. Traffic violations labeled as serious or very serious are subject to prosecution in criminal courts.

    d. If the CNA/SJA is aware of circumstances that would warrant seeking a waiver of jurisdiction, the
circumstances and a request for waiver to be sought should be submitted in accordance with paragraph
O-7.

O-14. ADVANCE NOTIFICATION OF CASES
When the Group of Jurisdiction of the Permanent Committee receives advance notification from a
Spanish court of the existence of proceedings involving a member of the U.S. Forces or military tourist
personnel, the Group of Jurisdiction will provide the ODC, Spain, with this information and request that
the individual be kept in Spain until the proceedings are completed.

    a. On receipt of such notification, the ODC/SJA will notify the appropriate command and request
verification of the individual’s status and whether or not the incident arose from the performance of
official duty.
                                                       109
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    b. On receipt of the request, the CNA/SJA will provide the information requested and ensure that the
individual is placed on administrative hold.

O-15. REPORTS

   a. Annual Reports. The annual report on the Exercise of Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction by Foreign
Tribunals over United States Personnel, covering the period 1 December through 30 November, will be
prepared by the CNA/FCJ for all Navy and Marine Corps personnel. The ODC/SJA will prepare these
reports for all Army and Air Force personnel. Pursuant to DOD Directive 5525.1, annual reports on the
exercise of FCJ will report only criminal cases brought against U.S. personnel that are punishable by
incarceration. This report will be prepared and submitted as required by the Joint Service Regulation
(AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706).

   b. Semiannual Confinement Reports. The procedures for annual reports (a above) also apply to
semiannual confinement reports, which must be submitted twice a year on 30 November and 31 May.

NOTE: Commanders holding personnel of another service pending trial by the Spanish authorities will
immediately notify the reporting commander of the facts of the case in order to help complete required
service reports.

   c. Visitation Reports.

      (1) The CNA/SJA for Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force personnel; and the ODC/SJA for Army
personnel; will ensure that monthly visits to U.S. personnel confined in foreign penal institutions are
made as required by joint-service directives.

        (2) The original and three copies of visitation reports will be sent to the ODC/SJA in enough time
to arrive at least 10 workdays after the end of the month.

        (3) In individual cases where the location of the prison or other circumstances make it advisable
for a commander of another service to assume responsibility for visits, the Chief, ODC, Spain, in
coordination with the commanders concerned, will reassign such responsibility.

        (4) If possible, regular visits will be made by the individual’s commanding officer or his or her
representative at least every 30 days. In addition, periodic visits should be made by a chaplain, medical
officer, and legal officer. Arrangements for each visit should be made with the prison director at least 2
weeks before the visit. The initial visit should be made within 15 days after the date of confinement.
Preconfinement physicals must be done as required by the Joint Service Regulation, paragraph 3-4.

O-16. IMPLEMENTATION
Implementing directives for Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force personnel will be issued by the
CNA/SJA. One copy of each implementing directive will be provided to the ODC/SJA.




                                                       110
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX P
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION—TURKEY

27 October 2004 (updated September 2007)

LEGAL SERVICES
EXERCISE OF FOREIGN CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

SECTION I
GENERAL

P-1. PURPOSE
This instruction implements the references in paragraph P-2 and establishes the policy and procedures
concerning the exercise of criminal jurisdiction by Turkish authorities over U.S. personnel in Turkey. It
establishes procedures for processing official duty cases. It provides procedures for placing U.S. Forces
personnel who may be charged with violations of Turkish criminal laws on international administrative
hold. It also outlines procedures for cooperating with Turkish officials during criminal investigations.

P-2. REFERENCES
   a. NATO Status of Forces Agreement (NATO SOFA) (Turkish Law No. 6375) and bilateral
implementing arrangements.
    b. AR 27-50/SECNAVINST 5820.4G/AFJI 51-706, Status of Forces Policies, Procedures, and
Information.
   c. USEUCOM Directive 45-3, Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction Over U.S. Personnel.
   d. AE Regulation 550-50/CNE-C6F Instruction 5820.8K/USAFE Instruction 51-706, Exercise of
Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction Over United States Personnel.
   e. Air Force Instruction 51-703, Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction.
   f. Ministry of Foreign Affairs Note No. 6302/5399, 24 September 1968 (fig P-1).
   g. Ministry of Foreign Affairs Note No. 6302/5400, 24 September 1968 (fig P-2).

P-3. RESPONSIBILITIES

    a. The Chief, Office of Defense Cooperation, Turkey (ODC Turkey/TCH), as the United States
country representative for Turkey, serves as the single POC with national authorities and U.S.
diplomatic personnel in Turkey concerning the exercise of criminal jurisdiction over U.S. Forces
personnel by the Government of Turkey (GOT). The Staff Judge Advocate (ODC Turkey/TJA), on
behalf of the ODC Turkey/TCH, acts as the single POC with the Legal Advisor for the Turkish General
Staff in processing official duty cases involving U.S. Forces personnel in Turkey.

   b. Unit commanders in Turkey will inform U.S. personnel of relevant Turkish criminal laws and the
provisions of Article VII, NATO SOFA. Unit commanders will ensure U.S. personnel are reminded on a
recurring basis of their responsibility to report all vehicle accidents and involvement with Turkish police
authorities to their commander.

                                                       111
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    c. Servicing staff judge advocates will ensure when U.S. personnel are tried by Turkish authorities
that all necessary steps are taken to guarantee they receive fair trials and are afforded the procedural
rights, privileges, and protections provided by Article VII, paragraph 9, of the NATO SOFA.

P-4. USES
This instruction will be consulted any time Turkish authorities exercise criminal jurisdiction over U.S.
Forces personnel in Turkey. The term U.S. Forces personnel includes U.S. military personnel,
regardless of nationality and place of assignment (members of the force); civilians employed by the U.S.
Forces in Turkey (members of the civilian component); and their Family members (dependents).

P-5. RESTRICTIONS ON USES
This instruction may not be used in any manner inconsistent with the policy and guidance set forth in the
references in paragraph P-2.

SECTION II
GUIDELINES

P-6. EXERCISE OF JURISDICTION
U.S. military authorities exercise exclusive jurisdiction over U.S. military personnel for violations of
U.S. law that are not also violations of Turkish law. Turkish authorities exercise exclusive jurisdiction
over U.S. personnel in Turkey for violations of Turkish law that are not also violations of U.S. law.
When acts or omissions violate the laws of both countries, each country has a concurrent right to
exercise jurisdiction.
    a. U.S. military authorities have the primary right to exercise concurrent jurisdiction over military
personnel (and in certain cases members of the civilian component) when offenses are either of the
following:
       (1) Solely against the person, security, or property of the U.S. Government, other members of the
force or the civilian component, or dependents (inter se cases).
       (2) Acts or omissions done in the performance of official duties (official duty cases).
   b. In all other concurrent jurisdiction cases, Turkey has the primary right to exercise jurisdiction.

P-7. POLICY

    a. Unit commanders must maintain order and enforce discipline among U.S. personnel. This
responsibility includes offenses committed by U.S. personnel in violation of Turkish laws. U.S military
authorities will deal with offenses by U.S. personnel according to applicable U.S. laws and directives,
including the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), and pertinent international agreements.

    b. Unit commanders will attempt, when appropriate, to obtain waivers of Turkish jurisdiction or an
understanding with Turkish officials not to exercise such jurisdiction when the primary or exclusive
right to exercise jurisdiction is vested in Turkey. If the Turkish authorities exercise jurisdiction, unit
commanders will ensure the accused receives fair trials and fair treatment.

   c. When unit commanders have the primary or exclusive right to exercise jurisdiction, or Turkish
authorities waive or relinquish their primary or exclusive right to jurisdiction, unit commanders will take
prompt and appropriate action.
                                                       112
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
P-8. REQUESTS FOR WAIVERS OF JURISDICTION

   a. General. In accordance with Article VII, paragraph 3(c), NATO SOFA, the United States may
request Turkey to waive the primary right to exercise jurisdiction in significant cases involving U.S.
military personnel where U.S. authorities consider such waivers of particular importance.

   b. Procedures.

       (1) Requests for waivers of jurisdiction for U.S. military personnel may be made by unit
commanders or servicing staff judge advocates. They will be directed to local police authorities or
public prosecutors. The ODC Turkey/TJA will be notified of any such requests and the results.

      (2) If the local police or public prosecutors reject a request, it may be forwarded to the ODC
Turkey/TCH, who will determine the best manner in which to present the request to the GOT. Requests
forwarded to the ODC Turkey/TCH must include the following:

          (a) The identification of the accused and the alleged offenses.

          (b) The name and description of the court in which the cases are being heard.

          (c) Translated copies of court documents with case-file numbers.

           (d) Important facts concerning the case, including the nature and extent of any involvement
on the part of Turkish nationals.

P-9. REQUESTS FOR RELEASE FROM CUSTODY

    a. General. Unit commanders will try to secure U.S. custody of accused U.S. military personnel
until foreign judicial proceedings are completed. Unit commanders should also try to secure the release
of U.S. civilian employees and dependents from foreign pretrial confinement.

   b. U.S. Military Personnel. Unit commanders may give assurances that accused U.S. military
personnel will not be removed from Turkey, except on due notice and with an adequate opportunity for
Turkish authorities to object. On release, individuals will be given direct written orders not to depart
Turkey without the specific consent of their unit commanders. They will acknowledge these orders in
writing.

    c. Civilian Personnel and Dependents. Unit commanders should inform Turkish authorities that the
U.S. Government has no authority to restrain civilian employees and dependents or guarantee their
presence at trial. Commanders may assure Turkish authorities that the United States will not transport
these accused individuals from Turkey at U.S. expense without prior approval of the Turkish
Government.

P-10. PROCESSING OFFICIAL DUTY CASES

    a. When U.S. military members (and in some cases, members of the civilian component) are
involved in incidents while performing official duties that may subject them to Turkish prosecution,
their unit commanders will consult with their servicing staff judge advocates. Figure P-3 provides
information on official duty status.
                                                       113
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    b. If unit commanders or servicing staff judge advocates determine the incidents may have occurred
in the performance of official duties and that the U.S. Government may have concurrent jurisdiction,
they will assert to appropriate Turkish officials the U.S. primary right to exercise jurisdiction. If the
officials are unaware of the NATO SOFA and its implementing arrangements or fail to take necessary
actions within a reasonable time, servicing staff judge advocates will notify the ODC Turkey/TJA.
    c. Unit commanders will appoint investigating officers (IOs) to determine the facts and
circumstances surrounding incidents. Figure P-4 provides sample reports. Reports will be reviewed for
legal sufficiency by servicing staff judge advocates before they are submitted to unit commanders. IOs
will complete their investigation as soon as possible after the incident and not wait until Turkish
criminal charges are filed.
    d. If unit commanders, after reading reports and legal reviews, conclude the incidents occurred “in
the performance of official duties,” they will submit requests for official duty certificates to the ODC
Turkey/TJA. Requests will be accompanied by the reports and legal reviews.
   e. If the ODC Turkey/TCH issues official duty certificates, copies will be forwarded to unit
commanders. If official duty certificates will not be issued, unit commanders will also be notified.
    f. If the Turkish authorities accept the official duty certificates and relinquish jurisdiction to U.S.
authorities, unit commanders will be notified. Unit commanders will take appropriate administrative or
disciplinary action and inform the ODC Turkey/TJA.

P-11. INTERNATIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE HOLD PROCEDURES

    a. Unit commanders will place U.S. military personnel who may be prosecuted by Turkish
authorities on international administrative hold in accordance with applicable service regulations and
this instruction. Members of the civilian component and dependents who may be prosecuted by Turkish
authorities will have reassignment orders and transportation out of Turkey at U.S. Government expense
withheld. No other restraints may be placed on civilians by U.S. military authorities. No additional
measures may be taken to guarantee civilians will remain in country.

   b. Unit commanders will advise servicing staff judge advocates, personnel offices, traffic
management offices, medical treatment facilities, and the ODC Turkey/TJA when individuals have been
placed on administrative hold.

  c. Each month, unit commanders will give the ODC Turkey/TJA a list of all personnel in their units
who are placed on, remain on, and are released from international administrative hold.

    d. U.S. military personnel may, with the express approval of the ODC Turkey/TCH, be placed on
international administrative hold if the GOT specifically requests their presence as witnesses in pending
criminal cases of particular importance to the GOT or for other valid reasons.

   e. U.S. military personnel may be removed from international administrative hold and civilian
personnel and dependents may receive Government transportation out of Turkey as follows:
       (1) On final disposition of their criminal case.
       (2) Three months after the date of the incident if no charges have been initiated against them.
       (3) If the judge grants a trial in absentia (f below).
                                                        114
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (4) With the specific approval of the ODC Turkey/TCH.
    f. Individuals may be released from international administrative hold if the judge grants a trial in
absentia and permission for the accused to depart Turkey. Accused individuals must be fully advised
that they may be tried and convicted in absentia. Consent and agreement to trial in absentia will be
given by the accused in writing.
    g. Specific requests for approval for temporary or permanent release from administrative hold must
be forwarded to the ODC Turkey/TJA in sufficient time to allow at least 5 workdays to process the
request and coordinate with the U.S. Embassy in Ankara.
        (1) Emergency Leave. If the accused submits a valid emergency leave request, unit commanders
will request approval through the ODC Turkey/TJA for the accused to temporarily leave the country.
Requests may be made by telephone. If it is likely the accused will still be on leave at the time of the
next scheduled hearing, the servicing staff judge advocate will attempt to obtain delays or the court’s
consent to the temporary absence of the accused. If emergency leave is granted, the accused will be
advised in writing and provide signed acknowledgments of their obligation to return for such hearings as
may be required. Emergency leave orders will state that the holder has been temporarily released from
international administrative hold and will not be permanently reassigned without the concurrence of the
ODC Turkey/TCH.
       (2) Medical Evacuation. If a medical emergency require medical evacuation, unit commanders
or medical personnel will request approval through the ODC Turkey/TJA for the accused to temporarily
leave the country. Requests may be made by telephone. In emergencies requiring immediate evacuation,
attending physicians may approve the evacuation. If it is likely that the accused will still be out of the
country at the time of the next scheduled hearing date, the servicing staff judge advocate will attempt to
obtain delays or the court’s consent to the temporary absence of the accused. Orders will state that the
holder has been temporarily released from international administrative hold and will not be permanently
reassigned without the concurrence of the ODC Turkey/TCH.

P-12. APPOINTMENT OF TRIAL OBSERVERS
The ODC Turkey/TCH has been delegated authority by the U.S. Ambassador to Turkey to appoint trial
observers. Requests for the appointment of trial observers will be prepared by servicing staff judge
advocates and sent to the ODC Turkey/TJA.

P-13. TURKISH CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS
    a. Command Responsibilities. In all locations where U.S. Forces personnel are located, unit
commanders will provide local police authority POCs to be called if U.S. Forces personnel become
involved with Turkish police authorities. When notified of incidents, assistance will be dispatched to the
location of the U.S. Forces personnel as soon as possible. On arrival, U.S. representatives should try to
ascertain the facts and interview the U.S. Forces personnel involved. U.S. representatives will advise
detained U.S. Forces personnel that they are there to ensure their legal rights are protected. They may
not assist in Turkish interrogations. Legal officers should be contacted as soon as possible to obtain legal
advice.
   b. Criminal Investigations.
       (1) Turkish investigators may compel the accused to appear for interrogations. However, before
any interrogations, accused personnel must be advised of the nature of the charges against them and
asked to answer such charges.
                                                       115
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
        (2) Turkish criminal investigations are conducted by the police, public prosecutors, and
interrogating judges. At all stages of investigations, accused personnel are protected from being coerced
into incriminating themselves. Turkish law provides for punishment of public officials who coerce
accused individuals. In addition, coerced statements may be excluded from Turkish court hearings.

       (3) Experience indicates that Turkish officials expect the accused to make statements and suspect
the worst if they do not. If the accused makes statements that are untrue, the accused will not be subject
to prosecution for perjury. However, incriminating statements may be used against them.

   c. Access to and Legal Advice for Accused Persons.

       (1) U.S. representatives are generally permitted to see and talk with U.S. Forces personnel under
investigation. If they are denied access, they should politely press their requests to the responsible
Turkish officials at the scene. If access is still denied, attempts should be made to contact higher ranking
Turkish officials. Assistance of the local American Consul may also be sought. Care should be exercised
to avoid unnecessarily antagonizing Turkish officials.

       (2) U.S. representatives will advise U.S. Forces personnel under investigation that they have the
following rights:
           (a) Allegations against them must be explained before interrogations.
           (b) They may have retained or appointed lawyers present at every phase of an investigation.
           (c) They may remain silent.
           (d) They may inform anyone of their arrest.
           (e) They may demand the collection of favorable information.
           (f) Their spouse may attend all court hearings.
           (g) They may attempt to have unlawfully obtained evidence excluded from their trials.

      (3) U.S. representatives will be respectful and courteous to Turkish officials and will caution
personnel under investigation to act with respect and courtesy.

   d. Interpreters. U.S.-provided interpreters are frequently used by Turkish officials conducting
investigations. Their only function is to interpret. They may not assume the role of investigator or legal
advisor.

   e. Mistreatment and Use of Coercion.

        (1) U.S. representatives who observe mistreatment or coercion of U.S. Forces personnel must
make immediate verbal protests. The protests should include an assertion that coercion is contrary to the
rights of the accused under Turkish law and Article VII of the NATO SOFA. Protesting officials should
clearly state that all observed misconduct will be documented and reported immediately.

        (2) Although verbal protests are mandatory, U.S. representatives will not interfere with Turkish
authorities by physical actions. Such actions would subject U.S. representatives to arrest and may result
in the permanent removal of U.S. representatives from Turkish interrogations.
                                                       116
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
   f. Reporting Requirements.

        (1) U.S. Forces personnel subject to this instruction who observe mistreatment will immediately
report the facts to their unit commanders. Commanders will advise the nearest American Consul and
prepare and send reports in accordance with this instruction.

        (2) Unit commanders will also obtain signed, sworn statements from all witnesses and send them
to the ODC Turkey/TJA.

P-14. JOINT CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS

   a. Policy. Joint U.S.-Turkish criminal investigations are permissible when U.S. Forces personnel are
involved in criminal activities with Turkish nationals, or when criminal activities by U.S. Forces
personnel are carried out in a manner or place that requires Turkish cooperation.

        (1) The goal of such cooperative efforts is twofold: to combat criminal activity by U.S. Forces
personnel in Turkey and to secure U.S. jurisdiction over U.S. Forces personnel whenever possible. In
considering the second goal, it is recognized that unit commanders may not exercise judicial authority
over civilians. However, certain administrative sanctions are available for unit commanders to use, and
such sanctions may, in particular cases, be enough to encourage Turkish authorities to waive
jurisdiction.

      (2) For the purposes of this paragraph, the term U.S. Forces personnel includes DOD military
personnel, U.S. civilian personnel, U.S. contractor personnel, and their dependents.

   b. Responsibilities.

       (1) Cooperation With Host-Nation Police. Commanders exercising special court-martial
convening authority will decide when and how to cooperate with Turkish police agencies on criminal
investigations that may result in U.S. Forces personnel being placed in confinement. This decision
authority does not depend on actual courts-martial jurisdiction over these individuals. The commander
will personally examine the facts and circumstances of each case. Factors to be considered in making a
decision to cooperate with host-country police are as follows:
          (a) The seriousness of the alleged offense.
           (b) The likelihood of effective U.S. investigations and prosecutions without the cooperation
of Turkish authorities.
          (c) The effect on the U.S. military mission, the base community, and relationships with the
GOT if the alleged offenses continue.
           (d) The possibility of retaining primary criminal jurisdiction over U.S. Forces personnel
involved if a decision to cooperate appears appropriate.

       (2) Unit Commanders. In cases that will likely not result in U.S. Forces personnel being placed
in confinement, unit commanders are authorized to request assistance from Turkish police agencies. In
cases that may result in personnel being placed in confinement, unit commanders will prepare
recommendations and summaries of the facts and circumstances of the cases and send them to their
special court-martial convening authorities for decision.
                                                       117
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
        (3) Investigative and Law-Enforcement Agencies and Staff Judge Advocates. Personnel from
the Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI), security and military police, and judge advocate
offices will provide advice to commanders on joint criminal investigations. Coordination with higher
AFOSI, police, or judge advocate authorities may be necessary.

    c. Relationships with American Embassy Personnel and American Consuls. When joint criminal
investigations may result in U.S. Forces personnel being investigated by Turkish law-enforcement
authorities, the appropriate local U.S. military commander will decide whether and how much
information to share with the Turkish authorities. The ODC Turkey/TJA will be notified of this decision
and the rationale for it, and will notify the consul or embassy officer before the information is passed to
the Turkish authorities.




                                                       118
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                                                                                      Ankara, September 24, 1968
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Note No. 6302/5399



Excellency:

    I have the honor to refer to discussions between representatives of our two Governments concerning
duty certificates in implementation of Article VII, paragraph 3(a)(ii), of the Agreement between the
Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty regarding the Status of Their Forces and have the honor to propose
the following:

                                                  ARTICLE 1

    In case of offenses arising out of any act or omission done in the performance of official duty, the
duty certificates will, in conformity with the spirit and the letter of the Agreement between the Parties of
the North Atlantic Treaty regarding the Status of Their Forces and according to the practices in the other
NATO countries, be issued by the authorities of the Government of Turkey in conformity with the spirit
and the letter of the Agreement between the Parties of the North Atlantic Treaty regarding the Status of
Their Forces, and according to the practices in the other NATO countries.

                                                  ARTICLE 2

   In implementation of Article 1, the following procedures will apply:

    (A) On being informed that the accused is entitled to benefit from the provisions of the aforesaid
Agreement, the public prosecutor of the locality where the offense has been committed will inquire of
the Turkish General Staff, through the Ministry of Justice, whether the offense arose out of any act or
omission done in the performance of official duty. The Turkish General Staff will then inquire of the
concerned authorities of the Sending State about this matter. (If the Sending State is the United States,
the concerned authority will be the highest ranking commanding officer of the U.S. Forces in Turkey.)

    (B) If after investigation, the concerned authorities of the Sending State deem that a certificate
attesting that the alleged offense arose out of any act or omission done in the performance of official
duty should be issued in conformity with the provisions of Article l above, one copy of that certificate
will be forwarded immediately to the Turkish General Staff and another to the commander of the unit to
which the accused is assigned or attached.

    (C) If accepted by the Turkish General Staff, the duty certificate will be sent through the Ministry of
Justice to the public prosecutor of the locality where the offense has been committed. On receipt of the
duty certificate from the Ministry of Justice, the action against the accused will be suspended by the
competent judicial authorities and the file of the accused will be sent to the Turkish General Staff.


                     Figure P-1. Ministry of Foreign Affairs Note No. 6302/5399


                                                       119
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Note No. 6302/5399

The Turkish General Staff will then, except in cases covered by paragraphs (D) and (E), forward the file
to the concerned authorities of the Sending State. The case against the accused will then be dismissed.
The concerned authorities of the Sending State will officially inform the Turkish General Staff of the
outcome of the case.

    (D) If not found acceptable by the Turkish General Staff and withdrawn by the concerned authorities
of the Sending State, the Turkish General Staff will, through the Ministry of Justice, so notify the public
prosecutor of the locality where the offense has been committed. The public prosecutor of the said
locality will, through the Ministry of Justice, inform the Turkish General Staff of the outcome of the
case. The latter will in turn send this information to the concerned authorities of the Sending State.

    (E) If the duty certificate is not found acceptable by the Turkish General Staff and not withdrawn by
the concerned authorities of the Sending State, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be informed with a
view to reaching an agreement through negotiations with the diplomatic representative of the Sending
State with the participation of the Turkish General Staff and a military representative of the Sending
State, and in consultation with other concerned Turkish authorities. In the meantime, the duty
certificates as well as the legal action against the accused will be suspended without affecting the
availability of the accused for trial by Turkish courts if the duty certificate is not found acceptable. The
outcome of these negotiations, such as the acceptance of’ the duty certificate or its withdrawal by the
concerned military authorities of the Sending State, will be communicated to the public prosecutor of the
locality where the offense has been committed in the same manner as foreseen in paragraphs (C) and (D)
for appropriate actions.

I have the honor to propose that, if the foregoing is acceptable to the Government of Turkey, this note
and Your Excellency’s reply concurring therein will constitute an agreement between our two
Governments that will enter into force on the date of Your Excellency’s reply. It is the understanding of
my Government that the agreement concerning duty certificates included in the aide-memoir that were
exchanged on 28 July 1956 will be considered terminated on that same date.

Accept, “Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.”

In reply, I have the honor to inform you that my Government is in agreement with the foregoing.

Accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration.




/s/ I. S. CAGLAYANGIL
Ihsan Sabri Caglayangil
Minister of Foreign Affairs


              Figure P-1. Ministry of Foreign Affairs Note No. 6302/5399—Continued

                                                       120
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                                                                                       Ankara, 24 September 1968
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Note No. 6302/S400
Excellency:
    I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your note of 24 September 1968, which reads as
follows:

“Excellency:

    I have the honor to refer to my note to you of this date, referring to discussion between
representatives of our two Governments, concerning duty certificates in implementation of Article VII,
paragraph 3(a)(ii), of the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty regarding the
Status of Their Forces and wish to propose the following agreed minute:
   The U.S. negotiators have indicated that the practices in other NATO countries are to accept the
U.S.-issued duty certificate with provision for discussion of exceptional cases.
    The Turkish negotiators have indicated that the phrase put into effect corresponds to islem gorecektir
in Turkish.
    In the interest of fulfilling the provisions of the NATO SOFA, which require that an accused person
of the Sending State will receive a prompt and speedy trial, and in the interest of the proper and effective
administration of justice, the Government of Turkey will permit the Sending State to take appropriate
action under its own laws in the case at hand when negotiations have not resulted in an agreement within
2 months. The Turkish General Staff will forward the duty certificate through the Ministry of Justice to
the public prosecutor concerned. The case against the accused will then be dismissed. The file of the
accused will be forwarded to the concerned authorities of the Sending State. The Government of Turkey
will take the necessary steps with the appropriate authorities to give effect to this provision. The issues
on which the agreement had been reached will continue to be the subject of discussion with a view to
achieving a resolution to be applied in future cases involving similar issues.
    I would appreciate being informed of the concurrence of Your Excellency’s Government in the
foregoing agreed minute.
   Accept, Excellency, the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.”
   In reply, I have the honor to inform you that my Government is in concurrence with the foregoing
agreed minute.
   Acceptance, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration.




/s/ I.S. CAGLAYANGIL
Ihsan Sabri Caglayangil
Ministry of Foreign Affairs

                     Figure P-2. Ministry of Foreign Affairs Note No. 6302/5400
                                                       121
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                                       OFFICIAL DUTY STATUS

1. Applicable Principles.

    a. In general, an act or omission is done “in the performance of official duty” if it is done in response
to competent authority or directive, whether expressed or implied, and is reasonably related to the
performance of required or permissive official functions of U.S. Forces personnel. Competent authority
or directive includes but is not limited to statute, regulation, the order of a superior, or military use
commensurate with the specific factual situation and the circumstances involved.

   b. Most requests for determinations of official duty status arise from offenses involving the operation
of motor vehicles.

       (1) Travel to and from work in either a Government or privately owned vehicle (POV) is
considered in the performance of official duty as long as no material deviations are made from a direct
and normally traveled route.

       (2) Matters to be considered with regard to a material deviation may include the intent of the
driver when the deviation from a direct route occurred; where the deviation took the driver, in a
geographic sense, from a direct route; the time elapsed during the deviation; and where the accident
occurred.

       (3) The use of POVs for any military duty, including travel incident to temporary duty, is
likewise considered in the performance of official duty. Since it is often difficult to determine when a
POV is being driven on official business and when it is being driven on a personal mission, it is
imperative the investigating officer conduct an extensive and detailed investigation. The investigation
should affirmatively establish the reason why a POV rather than a Government vehicle was used.

        (4) When U.S. Government vehicles are made available to groups of military personnel for
recreational purposes, operators of the Government vehicles may be considered acting in the
performance of official duties. For the purposes of strengthening requests for determinations of official
duty status, commanders, when planning and authorizing recreational trips, should place the drivers on
duty through the use of written memorandums designating them as drivers for the trips.

2. Investigating Officers. Before beginning investigations, investigating officers should seek the advice
of servicing staff judge advocates. It is important that investigating officers understand the concept of
official duty status. Their thoroughness in securing supporting documentation and preparing reports may
affect the substantive rights of U.S. military personnel in Turkey.

3. Evidence. Investigating officers should obtain all material evidence bearing on the incident and the
question of whether the subjects were in the performance of official duties. Such evidence should
include, whenever possible, sworn statements of witnesses, military and civilian police reports, and
other items such as photographs and relevant local directives.


                                     Figure P-3. Official Duty Status


                                                       122
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    a. Witnesses who should be interviewed and whose sworn statements should be taken include the
following:

       (1) The authority directing the activity.

       (2) Persons who were present at the time of the incident. (Extreme tact must be exercised when
dealing with Turkish and third-country nationals so as to preclude allegations of misconduct on the part
of investigating officers.)

       (3) The subjects (if they consent to giving statements after being advised of their rights under
Article 31 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice and their right to counsel).

   b. Translations of Turkish-language police reports and other Turkish language documents should be
obtained for submission with the report of investigation.

4. Reports of Investigation. Reports of investigation should be in substantial conformity with the model
in appendix D and should include—

   a. Concise factual accounts of the facts and circumstances of the incidents, including the following:

       (1) The time, place, nature, and purpose of the acts or omissions.

       (2) The circumstances of the incidents, including the nature and extent of personal injuries and
property damage as well as the status of any claims that may have been filed.

        (3) The sobriety of the subjects, including the degree of intoxication (if intoxicated) and the
results of any sobriety or blood alcohol tests administered.

       (4) The source and substance of any relevant orders or instructions.

       (5) A detailed statement as to why a POV was being used (if a POV was involved).

    b. The date that the subject is scheduled to rotate from his or her current overseas assignment. The
servicing staff judge advocate will advise the ODC Turkey/TJA of any changes in this date.

   c. An analysis of the facts as they relate to duty status.

   d. A finding that the subject was or was not in the performance of official duty.

    e. Maps, diagrams, and other items prepared by the investigating officer that graphically present the
facts and circumstances of the incident when such items assist in comprehending those facts and
circumstances.

5. Staff Judge Advocate. The servicing staff judge advocate will be responsible for providing legal
support to investigating officers and for reviewing reports of investigation for legal sufficiency before
the report is submitted to the local commander.

                             Figure P-3. Official Duty Status—Continued
                                                       123
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
MEMORANDUM FOR COMMANDER, DETACHMENT 1, 39 ABW

SUBJECT: Legal Review—Official Duty Case: Captain Doe


1. Enclosed is an investigation into the duty status of Captain William E. Doe, Detachment 1, 39 ABW,
who, on 13 June 2007, at approximately 1830, was involved in a vehicle accident in Ankara, Turkey,
while operating his POV on Abi Boulevard.

2. The investigation establishes that on the day in question, Captain Doe reported to his place of duty at
0800, as directed by his commander, to participate in the preparation of a briefing scheduled for visiting
officials. At approximately 1815 he completed his performance of duty and departed for his place of
residence. On his way to his residence, he deviated three blocks from the most direct route to purchase
groceries. The duration of this deviation was approximately 3 minutes. After returning to the most direct
route to his place of residence, an oncoming taxi crossed over the centerline and collided with Captain
Doe’s vehicle. There were no personal injuries; however, Captain Doe’s vehicle sustained damage
estimated at $400 and the taxi sustained damages estimated at $250. Turkish authorities assessed half of
the fault against Captain Doe.

3. Because of security concerns, Captain Doe was not in uniform at the time of the accident. Neither
alcohol nor drugs were a factor in the accident.

4. In my opinion, the facts established by the investigating officer support his conclusion that Captain
Doe was in the performance of official duties at the time of the alleged offense. The time and distance of
the deviation were not sufficient to categorize the deviation as material, and it was clear that Captain
Doe had completed the deviation and had returned to the most direct route at the time of the accident.
Accordingly, I recommend a request for a duty certificate be initiated.




Enclosure                                            LIBERTINE JUSTICE
Report of investigation w/attachment                 Captain, USAF
                                                     Staff Judge Advocate


                                    Figure P-4. Sample Investigation




                                                       124
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
MEMORANDUM FOR COMMANDER, DETACHMENT 1, 39 ABW
SUBJECT: Investigation for Determination of Official Duty Status (Captain William E. Doe)

1. Facts and Circumstances. Captain William E. Doe, USAF, FV00000000, Detachment 1, 39 ABW,
on 13 June 2007 at 1830, while proceeding in his POV from his place of duty to his residence, was
involved in an automobile accident with a taxi on Abi Boulevard, Ankara, Turkey. The circumstances
that led up to this accident are as follows:
    a. On Friday, 11 June 2007, Captain Doe’s Commander, Major George P. Black, ordered Captain
Doe to report to his place of duty on Sunday, 13 June 2007, to participate in the preparation of a
briefing. Captain Doe was in civilian clothes for security reasons (encl 3). The normal duty hours for
Captain Doe are 0730 to 1645, Monday through Friday (encl 1).
    b. Captain Doe obeyed that order and remained at his place of duty until 1815 when he departed for
his residence in his POV.
    c. On the way to his residence, Captain Doe briefly departed from the most direct route (Abi
Boulevard) to purchase groceries. This departure took him approximately three blocks north off the most
direct route and was approximately 3 minutes in duration. On completion of his purchase, he returned to
Abi Boulevard and proceeded toward his residence.
   d. After proceeding about two blocks on Abi Boulevard, an oncoming taxi crossed over the solid
centerline and collided with Captain Doe’s vehicle.
   e. Damage to Captain Doe’s vehicle was $400. The taxi sustained damage of $250. There was no
other property damage. There were no personal injuries.
   f. Captain Doe was not in uniform because of security concerns and had not consumed alcoholic
beverages before the accident. The judicial doctor administered a blood test, which proved negative.
   g. Captain Doe is scheduled to rotate from his present assignment in November 2008.
2. Analysis. Although Captain Doe was not at his place of duty during normal duty hours, he was
present as a result of a lawful order of his commander. Travel by military personnel in a POV from place
of duty to place of residence is considered to be in the performance of official duty. It is true Captain
Doe departed from the direct route. However, it was merely three blocks and he was back on the direct
route when the accident occurred. I do not think the departure was a material deviation.
3. Findings. After review of all the evidence and applicable directives, I conclude Captain William E.
Doe was in the performance of official duty when the accident in question occurred.



3 Encls                                             PETER PAUL
1. Statement - Captain Doe                          Captain, USAF
2. Statement - Major Black                          Investigating Officer
3. Statement - Mehmet Zuri

                             Figure P-4. Sample Investigation—Continued

                                                      125
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
I, WILLIAM E. DOE, Captain, USAF, FV00000000, Detachment 1, 39 ABW, was, at 1830 on 13 June
2007, involved in an automobile accident while proceeding from my place of duty to my residence in
Ankara, Turkey.

I departed the headquarters building at 1815 and proceeded down Abi Boulevard, which is the normal
direct route I travel to go home. I live 2 miles from the headquarters building. About halfway home and
three blocks north on Abi Boulevard is a local grocery store. On the way home that night, I drove off
Abi Boulevard and purchased a few groceries and then got back in my car and drove back onto Abi
Boulevard. This errand took me about 3 minutes. I hadn’t gone more than two blocks when an oncoming
taxi, which had crossed a solid white line, struck my vehicle head-on. The damage to my car was $400.
The damage to the taxi was about $250. The driver was the only occupant of the taxi. I was alone in my
car. There were no personal injuries. I had been ordered to work that day by my Commander, Major
Black, to help prepare a briefing. I had not been drinking before the accident. My normal duty hours are
0730 to 1645 daily, Monday through Friday.




WILLIAM E. DOE
Captain, USAF


SWORN AND SUBSCRIBED BEFORE ME ON THIS 16TH DAY OF JUNE 2007.




T. R. AMSTAG
Captain, USAF
Assistant Staff Judge Advocate

                                                                                                 Encl 1


                           Figure P-4. Sample Investigation—Continued




                                                      126
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                                                 STATEMENT

I, George P. Black, Major, USAF, Branch Chief, Detachment 1, 39 ABW, did, on 11 June 2007, order
one of my subordinates, Captain William E. Doe, to report to the headquarters building on Sunday, 13
June 2007, at 0800 to participate in the preparation of a briefing for visiting dignitaries. He was not in
uniform due to the terrorist threat to U.S. military personnel in the Ankara area. Captain Doe reported as
ordered and departed the headquarters building about 1815 on 13 June 2007.




GEORGE P. BLACK
Major, USAF


SWORN AND SUBSCRIBED BEFORE ME THIS 17TH DAY OF JUNE 2007.




JOHN ZINZSKI
1LT, USA
Administrative Officer

                                                                                                    Encl 2


                                                 STATEMENT


I, Mehmet Zuri, state that I am the owner and operator of a taxi on Abi Boulevard and that on 13 June
2007, while going west on Abi Boulevard, an American hit my car. It was his fault. That is all I have to
say.




MEHMET ZURI

                                                                                                    Encl 3


                            Figure P-4. Sample Investigation—Continued




                                                       127
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX Q
COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION—UNITED KINGDOM

3 AF-UK Legal Services, 25 June 2007

            UNITED STATES COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE INSTRUCTION FOR
                             THE UNITED KINGDOM

Q-1. BACKGROUND
    a. Under USEUCOM Directive 45-3, the Commander, USAFE, is assigned responsibility as the
designated commanding officer (DCO) for the United Kingdom (UK) to implement the provisions of the
Joint Service Regulation concerning the protection of the rights of U.S. personnel who may be subject to
UK criminal law. Pursuant to those directives and AE Regulation 550-50/CNE-C6F Instruction
5820.8K/USAFE Instruction 51-706, paragraph 7, the 3 AF/CV in the UK has been appointed as the
U.S. country representative (USCR) for the UK and acts on behalf of the Commander, USAFE, in
implementing the Joint Service Regulation and as the POC with UK authorities and the U.S. diplomatic
mission in all matters relating to the exercise of UK criminal jurisdiction over all U.S. personnel.
  b. The Commander, Naval Activities, UK (COMNAVACTUK), is the liaison agent with respect to
USMC and USN personnel for the COMUSNAVEUR.
    c. Within this framework, commanders, staff judge advocates (SJAs), and legal officers are
delegated authority to deal directly with local UK law-enforcement agencies and establish local
procedures to simplify or expedite the handling of foreign criminal jurisdiction (FCJ) matters as long as
these procedures comply with the spirit of this instruction.

Q-2. PURPOSE
The publications referenced in paragraph Q-1a establish the policy and procedures of the USCR for
providing the maximum protection of the rights of all U.S. personnel under the NATO Status of Forces
Agreement (SOFA) and for establishing a uniform reporting system in matters involving the exercise of
UK criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel. While 3 AF/CV in the UK is appointed as the USCR, the
administration of the FCJ program is conducted by the 3 AF-UK Legal Services on behalf of the USCR.
The 3 AF-UK Legal Services is therefore the appropriate POC for most FCJ matters.

Q-3. RESPONSIBILITY OF COMMANDING OFFICERS
   a. Commanding officers will use orientation periods, commander’s calls, formations, and all other
appropriate means to notify U.S. personnel of their rights and obligations in the UK and of their
susceptibility to UK criminal law. When possible, judge advocates should help plan and present these
programs.
    b. Commanding officers will establish, with the assistance of their SJAs or legal officers, procedures
with local UK law-enforcement authorities so that all UK criminal proceedings involving U.S. personnel
are promptly reported to the appropriate U.S. military authorities.
    c. Commanding officers will ensure that the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services) and, in the case of
USMC and USN personnel, the Navy Liaison Agent (COMNAVACTUK SJA), are made action or
information addressees, as appropriate, on all reports required by chapter 4 of the Joint Service
Regulation. For Army personnel, an information copy of all reports will be given to HQ USAREUR/7A
(AEAJA-IL). Paragraph Q-15 provides specific requirements on the numbers of copies and addressees.
                                                       128
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    d. It is an essential command responsibility to keep the USCR fully advised of all matters concerning
the exercise of FCJ over U.S. personnel. In all cases when U.S. personnel are confined or released from
confinement by UK authorities, the USCR will be notified of the facts by telephone as soon as possible
(3 AF-UK Legal Services, Royal Air Force Base Mildenhall, DSN 238-3278/3531/3533).

   e. Army and Air Force commands will deal directly with the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services).
USMC and USN commands with attorneys assigned may deal directly with the USCR (keeping the
COMUSNAVEUR and the COMNAVACTUK advised). Other USMC and USN commands should
coordinate through the COMNAVACTUK.

Q-4. JURISDICTION OVER OFFENSES

    a. Article VII of the North Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of their Forces (NATO SOFA)
determines whether UK or U.S. authorities have jurisdiction over offenses (and, in concurrent
jurisdiction cases, who has the primary right to exercise jurisdiction). U.S. military authorities have
exclusive jurisdiction over persons subject to U.S. military law for offenses punishable by U.S. law but
not by British law. UK authorities have exclusive jurisdiction over offenses punishable by British law
but not by U.S. law. In all other cases, the United States and the UK have concurrent jurisdiction.

    b. U.S. civilians are not subject to U.S. military law during times of peace. For this reason, offenses
committed by U.S. civilian employees and dependents in the UK (with the exception of extraterritorial
offenses under Title 18 and offenses that fall under the Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Act) are
within the exclusive jurisdiction of British authorities. Civilian employees and dependents are provided
protection by the NATO SOFA, and U.S. military authorities will protect their rights as required and
permitted by DOD Directive 5525.1 and the Joint Service Regulation.

    c. In cases where the United States and the UK have concurrent jurisdiction, Article VII of the
NATO SOFA provides that the United States has the primary right to exercise that jurisdiction (to try
the military offender for the alleged offense) in cases where the offense is solely against U.S. security, or
against the person of a member of the force (a military member), a member of the civilian component, or
a dependent of either. The United States will also have the primary right to exercise jurisdiction when
the offense is against the property of the United States, or the property of a member of the force, civilian
component, or a dependent of either. Finally, the United States will have the primary right to exercise
jurisdiction when the offense arises out of an act or omission done in the performance of official duty. In
all other cases of concurrent jurisdiction, the British authorities have the primary right to exercise that
jurisdiction.

   d. It is the policy of the United States that U.S. authorities will—
        (1) Exercise their jurisdiction in every case where they have the primary right and when it is
legally possible to do so. In any case where British authorities do not recognize and accede to assertion
of the U.S. primary right to exercise jurisdiction, the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services) must be notified
immediately for guidance and appropriate action.
        (2) Maximize U.S. jurisdiction by securing waivers (either formally or informally) from the
British authorities of their primary right to exercise jurisdiction wherever possible.
        (3) Request that the British authorities withhold action in cases where they have exclusive
jurisdiction when it appears that the commander concerned can take suitable corrective action and it
appears otherwise possible under all the circumstances.
                                                       129
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
Q-5. WAIVERS OF JURISDICTION

   a. When the United States has the primary right to exercise jurisdiction, a waiver will not be granted
without the approval of higher authority in accordance with paragraph 1-7c of the Joint Service
Regulation. All requests for such waivers in the UK will be referred to the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal
Services) for advice and guidance.

    b. When the UK has the primary right to exercise jurisdiction, British authorities rarely waive that
right. In cases where the UK does waive its right to exercise jurisdiction, the Director of Public
Prosecutions in England and the Lord Advocate in Scotland are authorized to issue formal waivers of
jurisdiction. In addition, formal waivers of jurisdiction may be provided by the Chief, Crown Prosecutor,
of the Crown Prosecution Service for the area involved.

        (1) It has been informally agreed with local constabularies near U.S. bases in England and with
local procurators fiscal in Scotland that UK authorities will not prosecute drug-use offenses occurring on
U.S. installations. These cases should be handled by U.S. authorities whenever possible.

        (2) British authorities (usually the police) occasionally indicate that they do not wish to deal with
a case. These cases also should be handled by U.S. authorities, if possible. When dealing with British
police in these matters, the term waiver of jurisdiction should be avoided. Negotiations should be
informal and refer to handing over the case to U.S. authorities. In serious cases where a waiver of
British jurisdiction is of particular importance to the United States, and local authorities are reluctant to
hand over the case, the full facts will be reported to the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services). The USCR
will take up the matter directly with the Director of Public Prosecutions, Lord Advocate, or Chief,
Crown Prosecutor, as appropriate, and advise the command concerned.

    c. All questions involving waivers of jurisdiction must be referred in the first instance to the
servicing SJA or legal officer of the local command concerned.

Q-6. THE VISITING FORCES ACT OF 1952
The basic agreements in the NATO SOFA concerning the exercise of criminal jurisdiction over U.S.
personnel in the UK have been enacted into British municipal law by the Visiting Forces Act (VFA) of
1952.

    a. British police and judicial officers will usually be unfamiliar with the NATO SOFA but will be
aware of the VFA. All SJAs and legal officers should have the VFA available and should use the precise
language of, and cite applicable references from, the VFA in addition to the NATO SOFA when
corresponding with British authorities. This is particularly important to cases where the United States is
asserting the primary right to exercise jurisdiction, when providing certification that an alleged offense
arose in the course of official duty, and when providing certification that a named and described person
is a deserter or absentee without leave from the U.S. Forces.

     b. The VFA conflicts with the terms of the NATO SOFA in some respects and there are cases when
a literal reading of the VFA would give the primary right to exercise jurisdiction to UK authorities
(usually with cases involving UK “dependent” victims). Any case in which British authorities insist on
an interpretation of the VFA that appears to contravene the plain language of the NATO SOFA should
be referred to the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services) for advice and guidance.



                                                        130
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
Q-7. DUTY STATUS CERTIFICATES IN MOTOR VEHICLE CASES

    a. The United States has the primary right to exercise jurisdiction over members of the U.S. Forces in
the case of offenses arising during the performance of duty. British authorities usually agree that traffic
and motor vehicle offenses committed by U.S. military personnel proceeding directly to or from their
places of duty arise during the performance of duty. On receipt of certification by an appropriate
authority (from the SJA legal officer of the command concerned) stated in the language of section 11(4)
of the VFA, British authorities will concede that U.S. authorities have the primary right to deal with the
case. In some areas, local police officials will accept verbal notification.

CAVEAT: If the alleged offense is not punishable under U.S. law, the U.S. authorities have no
jurisdiction and the British authorities may not accede. Usually, however, administrative action of a
disciplinary nature will satisfy British authorities that the offense is punishable under U.S. law. This is a
difficult issue and such cases should be handled with care depending on local practice. The USCR (3
AF-UK Legal Services) should be contacted for advice in these cases.

   b. It is the policy of the USCR that, with respect to cases of duty performance involving motor
vehicles, the following rules be followed:

       (1) Duty certificates should be issued when the following applies:

        (a) The Servicemember was driving an official vehicle within the scope of his or her
employment and no material deviation is evident.

           (b) The Servicemember was driving a privately owned vehicle (POV) to or from his or her
place of duty from or to his or her residence and the alleged offense was mainly attributable to his or her
need to arrive at either place.

       (2) Duty certificates should not be issued for the following:

           (a) POV cases where the alleged violation is due to failure to observe prerequisite conditions
for driving, such as driving without a drivers license or failure to have a current vehicle safety test
(“MOT” certificate) or insurance.

           (b) When the alleged offense is due to failure to have a POV in safe or roadworthy condition.

            (c) POV cases where the Servicemember was originally stopped by civil police for a driving
violation that leads to the discovery that he or she has not complied with prerequisite conditions or that
his or her vehicle is unsafe or not roadworthy so that he or she is charged with the two types of offenses.

       (3) In all cases in which duty certificates are not issued, no suggestion must be made that U.S.
authorities are waiving the primary right to exercise jurisdiction.

           (a) There usually will be no need to correspond with UK officials. If there is a need to
correspond, the appropriate British authority will be notified only that the offense has not arisen out of
the performance of duty and that the command does not intend to deal with the case under the laws of
the United States.



                                                        131
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
           (b) In cases where a duty certificate has been issued, the appropriate command will take
immediate action to properly dispose of the alleged offense. At the conclusion, the British authorities
should be notified that appropriate disciplinary action has been taken unless, as in the London area, the
local practice is to notify them only on request.

    c. Duty certificates will usually be issued by the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services) and will include
the information in section 11 of the VFA. Figure Q-1 is an example of an official duty certificate.


                           OFFICIAL DUTY CERTIFICATE

This is to certify that (grade, name, unit, location, civilian address, and military postal address) was in
an official duty status under the provisions of Article VII, paragraph 3(a)(ii), of the NATO Status of
Forces Agreement; and section 11(4) of the Visiting Forces Act 1952; at the time of the accident in
which (he or she) was involved ((location/description of accident) on (date)). The alleged offense arose
out of or in the course of (his or her) duty and will be dealt with by U.S. military authorities under U.S.
law.


FOR THE COUNTRY REPRESENTATIVE:

(3 AF-UK Legal Services)

cf:
(local unit SJA)
USAFE/SJA


                             Figure Q-1. Sample Official Duty Certificate


Q-8. SERVICE OF PROCESS
The service of UK criminal process will be effected on U.S. military installations in accordance with the
Joint Service Regulation. In the case of USAF personnel, 16 Air Force Instruction (AFI) 51-711 (which
will soon be republished as a 3 AF-UK AFI) applies. SJAs and legal officers should be aware that U.S.
personnel are sometimes arrested for offenses and charged by the police at that time. Unless there is
close liaison with both the local police and U.S. investigators (Office of Special Investigations and the
Naval Criminal Investigative Service), some of these cases may go unnoted. It is therefore important to
closely liaise with UK police officials and continue to remind them of their obligations to report cases
involving the arrest of U.S. personnel in accordance with Article VII, paragraph 5(b), of the NATO
SOFA.

Q-9. CUSTOMS AND REVENUE OFFENSES

   a. Local UK authorities have no power to waive or hand over customs and revenue cases informally.
For this reason, applications for waivers of UK jurisdiction will be made only by the USCR (3 AF-UK
Legal Services) pursuant to the recommendations of the commander concerned.


                                                       132
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
       (1) SJAs and legal officers should take necessary steps to ensure that local police or revenue and
customs process servers serve criminal process on U.S. military installations at the office of the
servicing SJA or legal office instead of by mail. The procedures in 16 AFI 51-711 should be followed to
the extent possible.

        (2) Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC) has agreed to send copies of the notices of
intent to prosecute by mail to the local SJA or legal officer and to provide the service of summons at the
office of the servicing SJA or legal officer. At that time, the servicing SJA or legal officer will give the
date eligible for return from overseas (DEROS) or rotation date of the accused to the HMRC.

    b. The HMRC may “compound” certain offenses by dealing with them as administrative matters
instead of through criminal charges. This procedure (which is usually at the request of the accused)
involves an out-of-court settlement and payment of an administrative penalty. Individuals who are
accused of committing customs offenses should be informed of this procedure and the consequences.
The HMRC has agreed to notify the appropriate legal office of these cases. The SJA, legal officer, or
commander concerned should advise the HMRC of the member’s rotation or discharge date and should
monitor the case so that the HMRC can be notified if it appears that the member will leave the UK
before the penalty has been paid.

Q-10. ROTATION AND REASSIGNMENT OF U.S. PERSONNEL SUBJECT TO UK
CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

    a. When U.S. authorities have been notified that U.S. personnel are under investigation pending
criminal charges (including customs offenses) by UK authorities, or when U.S. personnel have been
served with criminal process, these personnel will be placed on “international hold” status to prevent
their inadvertent departure from the UK pending the completion of court proceedings. Applicable
Service directives will be followed. In the case of USAF personnel, AFI 51-703 applies. Special
procedures apply to cases of personnel scheduled for return to the continental United States for
discharge. The USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services) should be consulted for guidance and advice in these
cases.

    b. As soon as a member, dependent, or civilian is identified as being under investigation for a serious
offense in the UK (as defined in AR 27-50/SECNAVINST 5820.4G/AFJI 51-706, paragraph 1-8), the
following procedures should be followed:

       (1) Ensure that the DEROS or separation date of the individual (if a member of a military
service) is not imminent. If the member is about to separate, work with the member’s unit to see if the
individual will voluntarily extend past his or her separation date. If the individual refuses, inform the
police authorities handling the case of the date the individual is expected to leave military service and
will no longer be subject to military control. In either event, the member must be placed on international
hold until his or her separation date.

       (2) The local legal office should ensure that the commander of the individual’s unit places the
individual on international hold by issuing a letter to that effect. The commander will serve this letter to
the individual and require the individual to acknowledge and sign the order. The legal office will then
correspond with the outbound assignments office and request that the individual be placed on
international hold. The individual’s records will be annotated with a “Code 13” to indicate that he or she
is on hold.


                                                       133
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
        (3) If the individual is a dependent or member of the civilian component, the legal office will
draft a letter for the commander or supervisor to send to the individual informing that person that he or
she is being placed on international hold and may not leave the country at U.S. Government expense or
be reassigned (if a civilian employee) until he or she is released from international hold. In cases
involving dependents of military sponsors, the sponsor must sign a letter acknowledging that he or she is
aware of the international hold. In cases involving dependents of civilian employees, the employee will
also sign. A copy of this letter will be sent to the military personnel flight (MPF) (or appropriate
personnel office).

       (4) If the individual is a minor, the international hold letter will be served on the sponsor.

        (5) After the court action has been concluded or the individual is released from further criminal
proceedings, legal offices should correspond with the MPF and request the individual’s removal from
international hold. Individuals will not be kept on international hold in order to complete their sentence.
The courts or the applicable probation service should be notified if the person is due to leave the country
before completing his or her sentence (such as community service). The courts may then consider
whether an amended order or further action is necessary. Commanders should try to keep the individual
in the country to complete his or her sentence if possible. In all cases where a Servicemember is
scheduled to depart the country before completing his or her sentence, 3 AF-UK Legal Services should
be contacted for advice and guidance.

    c. In general, personnel rotation, reassignment, or discharge will not be delayed in order to give an
individual time to pay a fine imposed by a British court (or an administrative penalty). In addition, no
commitment will be made to UK authorities that these persons will be kept in the UK to permit such
payment. When appropriate, local UK authorities should be advised that the accused member will be
departing the UK on a certain date. Any case in which difficulty is encountered because of a convicted
person’s imminent departure must be reported to 3 AF-UK Legal Services or the
COMNAVACTUK/SJA, as appropriate.

   d. Figures Q-2 and Q-3 are examples of international hold letters.




                                                       134
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                MILITARY INTERNATIONAL HOLD LETTER


MEMORANDUM FOR (Member’s Grade and Name)

SUBJECT: International Hold


1. You have been arrested by the British Police and suspected of committing (list offenses).
Accordingly, there is criminal action now pending against you. In accordance with Air Force Instruction
51-703, paragraph 4.2.1, you are being placed on international hold. You are hereby ordered not to
depart the host country (United Kingdom) until all criminal proceedings against you have been
concluded and you are released from international hold. You are required to acknowledge in writing the
restrictions being placed on your travel.

2. Please sign and return the following statement.




                                                    Commander’s signature block

I, (member’s name), acknowledge the order issued to me, and that I will not depart the host country until
all pending criminal proceedings against me have been concluded and I am released from international
hold.

ACKNOWLEDGED: (             date       ) at (        location          ).




                                                    Member’s signature block
                                                    Social security number


                           Figure Q-2. Military International Hold Letter




                                                      135
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
                       C I V I L I A N (or D E P E N D E N T, as applicable)
                        INTERNATIONAL HOLD LETTER


Name
Unit or Civilian Address
Dear (Civilian’s Name):
   You have been arrested by the British Police and suspected of committing (list offenses). As a result,
you may face criminal prosecution. In accordance with Air Force Instruction 51-703, paragraphs 4.2.2
and 4.2.3, you are being placed on international hold.
[As applicable]:
   As a civilian employee, you will not be transferred, reassigned, or allowed to use any type of U.S.-
funded transportation to leave the host country (United Kingdom) until all criminal proceedings against
you have been concluded and you have been properly released from international hold.

    As a dependent Family member, you will not be transferred from the host country on military orders
or be given any kind of U.S.-funded transportation until all criminal proceedings against you have been
concluded and you are properly released from international hold. Your sponsor is also required to
acknowledge this statement.
   Please sign and return the following acknowledgement affecting your travel entitlements.

                                                      Sincerely,




                                                      Commander’s signature block


I, (civilian employee’s or dependent’s name), acknowledge that I will not be allowed to use any type of
U.S.-funded transportation or leave the host country (United Kingdom) until I am properly released from
international hold.

ACKNOWLEDGED: (               date       ) at (        location          ).




                                                      Civilian’s or dependent’s
                                                      signature block

                    Figure Q-3. Civilian or Dependent International Hold Letter
NOTE: International hold letters for minor dependents should be addressed to and acknowledged by the
dependent’s sponsor.
                                                        136
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
Q-11. BAIL

     a. In England, cash bail is not posted. Bail consists of a personal promise by accused personnel that
if they fail to appear to answer to their bail, they will personally pay a certain sum to the court. In
addition, sureties may be required. These are other persons who will promise to personally pay a certain
sum to the court if the accused does not appear. Sureties must be private individuals, not corporations,
and contracts to indemnify sureties are illegal. Under the Bail Act, an accused is entitled to bail unless
good cause is shown why bail should be denied. Grounds to deny bail include belief that a defendant
would do one of the following:

       (1) Fail to surrender to custody.

       (2) Commit an offense while on bail.

       (3) Interfere with witnesses or otherwise obstruct the course of justice.

    b. Furthermore, a defendant may not be granted bail if the court believes that the defendant should be
kept in custody for his or her own protection; he or she is in custody already for other reasons; there was
not enough time to investigate the circumstances to enable a decision to be made as to bail; or the
defendant has been arrested or convicted of a breach of bail offense. Further conditions may be attached
to a grant of bail such as curfew or a requirement that the accused report at set times to a police station,
be required to live at a specific address, or remain within a specific area.

    c. Courts are frequently more willing to grant bail in circumstances when an accused will be released
to U.S. military custody or where military restrictions will be placed on the accused while on bail. If a
court requires a surety, it may agree to accept a commissioned officer as the surety. This officer is
personally responsible to the court. If provision of bail by the U.S. Government is properly approved in
accordance with the applicable directives, arrangements can be made to provide the necessary sum to the
officer acting as surety in case the accused fails to appear. In Scotland, cash bail is posted. The USCR (3
AF-UK Legal Services) has authority to approve the provision of bail in the case of USAF personnel.
The COMNAVACTUK (SJA), APO AE 09510, has authority to approve the provision of bail for
USMC and USN personnel. The Commanding General, 21st Theater Sustainment Command (21st
TSC), APO AE 09325 (message address: CDR 21ST TSC CMD KAISERSLAUTERN GERMANY
//AERJA-BD//), has authority to approve the provision of bail for Army personnel.

Q-12. COUNSEL FEES
The Commanding General, 21st TSC, in the case of Army personnel; the COMNAVACTUK UK (SJA)
in the case of USMC and USN personnel; and the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services) in the case of
USAF personnel have the authority to approve the payment of counsel fees and other necessary and
reasonable expenses incident to representation in civil and criminal proceedings in the UK. In addition,
all U.S. personnel in the UK have the right to apply for various types of legal aid in the form of “advice
and assistance, advocacy assistance, and representation for criminal offenses.” In Scotland, the legal aid
scheme is administered by the Scottish Legal Aid Board. Applications will be considered under the same
terms as those applicable to UK citizens. Legal representation will be granted in most criminal cases
when the solicitor is contracted with the Legal Services Commission and the court decides that it is in
the interest of justice that the individual is legally represented. If the person receives representation in
Crown Court, the judge may require a contribution to pay for the fees. The following procedures will be
followed in respect to requests for provision of counsel fees in the absence of legal aid or advice
provided by UK authorities:
                                                       137
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    a. Requests for counsel fees must be submitted in writing by the accused to his or her immediate
commander, who will refer the request to the servicing SJA. Requests must include the following
information:

       (1) Name, grade, social security number, and organization of the accused.

        (2) A summary of criminal charges of the complaint, including a citation of pertinent sections of
local law and a brief statement of the substance of the allegations against the accused.

       (3) In criminal cases, the maximum punishment if the accused is convicted.

       (4) Factual justification for approval within the established criteria under paragraph 2-4 of the
Joint Service Regulation.

      (5) The expected date of trial or hearing and the name and location of the court or administrative
agency that will consider the case.

       (6) The name, address, and qualifications of selected counsel.

       (7) The scope and extent of anticipated services to be rendered by the selected counsel.

       (8) The estimated amount of the fee and other expenses and a comparison of the proposed fee
with fees paid in comparable cases by local national civilians, including a statement of hourly and other
charging rates applied by the selected counsel.

       (9) If British legal aid has been refused, the reasons for refusal.

       (10) If British legal aid has not been applied for, a statement of the reasons for not applying.

       (11) If British legal aid has been granted subject to a contribution, the details of the calculation of
the contribution.

       (12) If appropriate and reasonably available, a statement of insurance coverage indicating the
type and amount of coverage, name and address of the insured, and availability of counsel service under
the insurance contract.

    b. The SJA will make recommendations and consult with the commander on requests for counsel
fees and other expenses. If the SJA believes that the accused’s request does not fall within the
established criteria for the provision of counsel fees, he or she will advise the installation commander,
who will forward the request with his or her recommendation to the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services);
Commanding General, 21st TSC; or COMNAVACTUK UK (SJA); as appropriate. If the SJA
determines that the accused’s request for counsel fees falls within the established criteria, he or she
will—

       (1) Prepare a request for purchase (Air Force Form 9 for USAF activities) summarizing the
proposed procurement of services of legal counsel. The purchase request must cite section 1037, Title
10, United States Code; and the applicable directives as authority.



                                                        138
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
        (2) In consultation with the accused, decide on a counsel who is satisfactory to the accused. The
military legal advisor may be used in this decision. Then contact the counsel to negotiate an agreement
for the provision of his or her services and ascertain the total estimated costs for the service to be
provided. While these costs should be estimated liberally to avoid overruns, due and proper regard
should be made to the charging rates submitted in accordance with a(8) above.
       (3) Obtain a citation and certificate of funds over the signature of the local accounting and
finance officer in the space provided on the procurement request.
       (4) Obtain the approval of the appropriate commander in the space provided on the procurement
request. The appropriate commander is usually the commander of the base where the accused is
stationed.
        (5) Arrange for the execution of the counsel-fee agreement and its schedule. SJAs may be
appointed as contracting officers for the purpose of hiring counsel in accordance with paragraph 2-7e of
the Joint Service Regulation (see f below for USAF). The agreement must include a clause stating that it
is not binding on the U.S. Government until approved by the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services);
Commanding General, 21st TSC; or COMNAVACTUK UK (SJA); as appropriate. It must also include
the following clause exempting payment of value-added tax in connection with the services rendered:


                                             CERTIFICATE

The services rendered on behalf of (name) are delivered at a price exclusive of value-added tax under
arrangements made with Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs pursuant to an agreement between the
Governments of the United Kingdom and the United States of America dated March 1952. I hereby
certify that these services were purchased from United States appropriated funds for the United States’
official purposes only. Invoices or vouchers for payment hereunder will be itemized so as to provide the
same information as is required for the time being on application for payment of fees under the Legal
Aid scheme. Vouchers for any disbursements claimed must be attached to the invoice. The solicitor will
provide all such case papers or documents as may be requested by the Government in support of the
invoice.


        (6) Submit two copies of the file (one of which will be returned) indicating the final action to be
taken by the appropriate approval authority. In the UK, the approval of counsel fees is delegated to
installation SJAs (but no lower). The authority to deny counsel fees has not been delegated and remains
with the DCO for the UK (Commander, USAFE). The appropriate authority will take final action
approving or disapproving the request for counsel fees and other expenses. (The local finance office will
need additional copies of all documents in the file except the contract.)
      (7) When a contribution is ordered by the court, SJAs will satisfy themselves that the solicitor or
counsel in the case was contracted with the Legal Services Commission and that the unusual
circumstances are recorded in accordance with the Joint Service Regulation, paragraph 2-7c.
    c. When immediate retention of counsel is required, the local SJA may provide approval by
telephone or message. In such cases, a certificate by the local SJA indicating the date the approving
authority approved the request in an amount specified will be included in the file. Local SJAs should,
when considering the immediate retention of counsel, take account of the possible subsequent
availability of British legal aid and make provision for only those services necessary before granting
legally aided representation.
                                                       139
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
    d. In proceedings where the established criteria under the Joint Service Regulation appear to the SJA
to exist but confirmation of their existence is subject to legal investigations by selected counsel,
consideration will be given to approve the payment of counsel fees limited to the investigation (for
example, approval for expert advice or a legal opinion from a barrister).

   e. The SJA is responsible for ensuring that the accused is advised of his or her right to request
counsel at U.S. Government expense as well as the availability of British legal aid. If the accused
declines to avail him- or herself of these rights, a written notation of the refusal will be included in the
case file.

    f. All USAF base SJAs in the UK are designated contracting officers for the purpose of paragraph 2-
7 of the Joint Service Regulation. Each USAF base SJA may designate a lawyer on his or her staff using
a memorandum of appointment (app E of the Joint Service Reg), a copy of which will be filed with the
USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services).

Q-13. TRIAL OBSERVERS

    a. In August of each year, the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services) will submit a list of proposed trial
observers to the U.S. defense attaché at the U.S. Embassy for formal appointment as UK trial observers
in accordance with paragraph 1-5a of the Joint Service Regulation. Commands in the UK with assigned
U.S. lawyers will provide updated lists of nominees to the 3 AF-UK Legal Services for the upcoming
year in July. If qualified U.S. lawyers join commands after the appointment date, their names should be
submitted to the USCR for interim appointment.

    b. Trials will be observed and reported in accordance with paragraph 1-8 of the Joint Service
Regulation. Trial observers may attend trials for minor offenses at the discretion of the servicing SJA or
legal officer but are not required to submit a formal report. Trial observer reports should indicate
whether or not accused persons have been advised of their rights with respect to the provision of counsel
fees and the payment of other costs by the U.S. Government, as well as British legal aid. The report
should also indicate whether or not the accused was advised of his or her right to jury trial (if
applicable), representation by counsel in general, and with respect to pleas. In addition, the maximum
possible sentence should be stated.

    c. In all cases involving U.S. personnel, regardless of whether or not a trial observer is assigned, a
unit observer in or above the grade of E7 should attend and be prepared to give the court personal
information about the accused if the court requests. The unit observer will give an informal report of the
proceedings to the servicing SJA or legal officer. The unit observer will also inform the accused’s
immediate commander of the disposition of the case.

    d. Certain trials in the UK are held in private (for example, juvenile courts, wardship proceedings,
childcare proceedings, applications in chambers). Under normal circumstances, trial observers would not
be permitted to be present during the hearing. However, the courts have inherent discretion to permit any
person to be present during the trial. If any hearings are to be held in private, local judge advocates
should contact the clerk of the relevant court and ask permission for a trial observer to attend. If
approval is not given, trial observers should be prepared to attend court on the day of the hearing and
apply to the court directly for consent to be present during the trial.




                                                        140
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
Q-14. PRISON VISITS
U.S. personnel in UK prisons will be visited each month in accordance with chapter 3 of the Joint
Service Regulation. All prison visit reports must be signed or endorsed by the appropriate SJA or legal
officer. Comments should be comprehensive enough to give reviewers an accurate picture of conditions.
Action taken or considered as a result of prison visits should be noted on DD Form 1602. Copies of visit
reports by chaplains should also be referred to the servicing SJA or legal officer. Problems involving
access to prisoners or prison conditions in the UK should be referred promptly to the USCR (3 AF-UK
Legal Services).

Q-15. REPORTS

   a. Annual reports (Joint Service Reg, para 4-4) will be prepared by the USCR for all U.S. Army and
USAF personnel in the UK. U.S. Army and USAF commands will be requested to provide local feeder
reports to the USCR at the close of the reporting period. The annual report for USMC and USN
personnel will be prepared by COMNAVACTUK with additional copies to the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal
Services), USAFE/JAI, and USEUCOM (ECJA).

  b. The USCR will submit confinement reports twice a year for all U.S. personnel confined in the
UK.

    c. Trial observer reports (Joint Service Reg, para 4-6) will be submitted to the USCR (3 AF-UK
Legal Services) (one original and three copies). In addition, one copy of the USMC and USN reports
will be submitted to COMNAVACTUK.

    d. Monthly prison visitation reports (Joint Service Reg, para 4-7) will be submitted to the USCR (3
AF-UK Legal Services) (one original and two copies). In addition, one copy of USMC and USN reports
will be submitted to COMNAVACTUK.

    e. Reports of serious or unusual incidents will be submitted in accordance with paragraph 4-8 of the
Joint Service Regulation, with information copies to the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services), USAFE/JAI,
USEUCOM (ECJA), and, for USMC and USN reports cases, to COMNAVACTUK. For USAF cases,
base offices will use the Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction Management System to submit reports. Base
offices should also provide direct communication of incidents to the USCR (3 AF-UK Legal Services).
For USAF cases only, the report must include the race of the personnel involved.

    f. For Army personnel, a copy of all reports (a through e above) will be sent to the 21st TSC SJA and
to HQ USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-IA).




                                                      141
                         AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
APPENDIX R
GENERAL COURT-MARTIAL CONVENING AUTHORITIES IN USEUCOM

R-1. ARMY

   a. CG, USAREUR/7A, APO AE 09014.

   b. Commanding General, V Corps, APO AE 09014.

   c. Commanding General, 21st Theater Sustainment Command, APO AE 09325.

   d. Commanding General, United States Army Southern European Task Force, APO AE 09630.

  e. Commanding General, Seventh United States Army Joint Multinational Training Command, APO
AE 09036.

R-2. NAVY

   a. Commander, USNAVEUR, PSC 802, Box 2, FPO AE 09499-0002.

   b. Commander, CNE-C6F, Unit 50148, FPO AE 09501-6002.

   c. Commander, Navy Region, Europe, PSC 8802, Box 20, FPO AE 09499-0020.

   d. Commander, Submarine Group Eight, PSC 817, Box 16, FPO AE 09622.

   e. Commander, Naval Support Activity Naples, PSC 817, Box 1, FPO AE 09622.

   f. Commanding Officer, Naval Air Station, Sigonella, PSC 812, Box 1000, FPO AE 09627.

   g. Commander, Naval Activities Spain, PSC 819, Box 1, FPO AE 09545.

   h. Commander, Naval Activities United Kingdom, PSC 821, Box 60, FPO AE 09421.

   i. Director, Navy Europe Programs, Resources and Support, FPO AE 09622.

R-3. AIR FORCE
Commander, USAFE, APO AE 09094.




                                                    142
                       AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
GLOSSARY

SECTION I
ABBREVIATIONS

3 AF/CV          Vice Commander, Third Air Force
3 AF-UK          Third Air Force
3 AF-UK/JA       Staff Judge Advocate, Third Air Force
21st TSC         21st Theater Sustainment Command
31 FW/JA         Staff Judge Advocate, 31st Fighter Wing
39 ABW/JA        Staff Judge Advocate, 39th Air Base Wing
52 FW/JA         Staff Judge Advocate, 52d Fighter Wing
65 ABW/JA        Staff Judge Advocate, 65th Air Base Wing
426 ABS/JA       Staff Judge Advocate, 426th Air Base Squadron
AFJI             Air Force joint instruction
AFOSI            Air Force Office of Special Investigations
ALUSNA           American Legation, United States Naval Attaché
AOR              area of responsibility
AWOL             absent without leave
cf               copy forwarded
CG, USAREUR/7A   Commanding General, United States Army Europe and Seventh Army
CMA              cognizant military authority
CNA/FCJ          Commander, U.S. Naval Activities, Spain, Foreign Criminal Jurisdiction Officer
CNA/SJA          Staff Judge Advocate, Commander, U.S. Naval Activities, Spain
CNE-C6F          Commander, U.S. Naval Forces Europe/Commander, U.S. Sixth Fleet
COMNAVACTUK      Commander, Naval Activities, United Kingdom
COMUSAFE         Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
COMUSNAVEUR      Commander, United States Naval Forces, Europe
CONUS            continental United States
CPP              Codice di Procedura Penale
CTA              Comprehensive Technical Agreement
DATT             defense attaché
DCM              Deputy Chief of Mission
DCO              designated commanding officer
DEROS            date eligible for return from overseas
DOD              Department of Defense
DOJ              Department of Justice
E7               sergeant first class (Army); chief petty officer (Navy); master sergeant (Air Force)
ECJA             Judge Advocate, United States European Command
ETS              expiration term of service
EURSWA           Europe and Southwest Asia
FCJ              foreign criminal jurisdiction
HQ USAREUR/7A    Headquarters, United States Army Europe and Seventh Army
HMRC             Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs
ID               identification
JA               judge advocate
JAI              Office of the Staff Judge Advocate General/International Law, United States Air
                   Forces in Europe
MAAG             military assistance advisory group
                                                 143
                    AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
MDCA             Mutual Defense Cooperation Agreement
MFA              ministry of foreign affairs
MOJ              ministry of justice
MP               military police
MPF              military personnel flight
NATO             North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NATO SOFA        North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement
NEPRS            Navy Europe Programs, Resources and Support
NSA              navy support activity
ODC              office of defense cooperation
ODC/SJA          Staff Judge Advocate, Office of Defense Cooperation, Spain
ODC Turkey/TCH   Chief, Office of Defense Cooperation, Turkey
ODC Turkey/TJA   Staff Judge Advocate, Office of Defense Cooperation, Turkey
OIC              officer in charge
OJA              Office of the Judge Advocate, Headquarters, United States Army Europe and
                    Seventh Army
OPR              office of primary responsibility
PD               policy directive
POC              point of contact
POV              privately owned vehicle
SECNAVINST       Secretary of the Navy instruction
SJA              staff judge advocate
SOFA             Status of Forces Agreement
SSN              social security number
TBD              to be determined
TIAS             United States Treaties and Other International Acts Series
TMO              transportation management office
UCMJ             Uniform Code of Military Justice
UNTS             United Nations Treaty Series
USAF             United States Air Force
USAFE            United States Air Forces in Europe
USAREUR          United States Army Europe
USASETAF         United States Army Southern European Task Force
USC              United States Code
USCR             United States country representative
USDAO            United States defense attaché office
USEUCOM          United States European Command
USMC             United States Marine Corps
USN              United States Navy
USNAVEUR         United States Naval Forces, Europe
U.S.             United States
USSSO            United States Sending State Office
UST              United States Treaties and Other International Agreements
VFA              Visiting Forces Act




                                                 144
                    AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
SECTION II
TERMS

component commander
For the purpose of this publication, component commanders are as follows:

● CG, USAREUR/7A (AEAJA-IL-I), APO AE 09014-9351.

● Commander, USNAVEUR (FJA), PSC 802, Box 2, FPO AE 09499-0002.

● Commander, USAFE (JAI), APO AE 09094-0100.

country liaison agent
The officer appointed by a component commander to act as POC for units and personnel of the Service
in foreign criminal jurisdiction matters, to perform certain other delegated responsibilities of the
component commander in a country for which the component commander is not the designated
commanding officer, or for other circumstances as indicated in the basic publication, paragraph 8.

designated commanding officer
The component commander assigned single-Service responsibility within a particular country or
countries for protecting the rights of U.S. personnel who may be subject to criminal trial in foreign
courts.

fair treatment
Treatment in which rights, privileges, and protection are substantially equivalent to rights given to
persons in custody of U.S. military authorities, and not less than those given to local national citizens
under local law and practice.

fair trial
A foreign criminal judicial proceeding in which the accused is—

● Given the procedural rights, privileges, and protections that are guaranteed by applicable international
agreements (for example, NATO SOFA, Article VII, paragraph 9 (this pub, app A)).

● Not prejudicially denied substantial rights and procedural safeguards guaranteed by the U.S.
Constitution in criminal proceedings in the various U.S. State courts. (Fair trial rights are at
http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/corres/pdf/d55251wch2_080779/d55251p.pdf.)

● Given the same substantive rights and procedural safeguards as local nationals. A trial is not
considered to be unfair solely because it is not conducted in the same way as trials are conducted in the
United States.

incident
Any act or omission by U.S. personnel that involves foreign interests and could result in criminal
proceedings by a foreign court or authority. The term proceedings includes but is not limited to arrest,
detention, confinement, service of criminal process, pretrial investigation, interim proceedings, trial,
post trial proceedings, and service of sentence.



                                                       145
                          AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
Joint Service Regulation
The term used in this publication to refer to AR 27-50/SECNAVINST 5820.4G/AFJI 51-706.

minor offense
An incident that does not result in serious personal injury, death, or extensive property damage, and for
which a foreign court would not normally impose a prison sentence.

receiving state
The foreign country in which a visiting force is stationed or through which it is passing in transit.

sending state
The country to which the visiting force belongs.

tacit consent
Consent that is given inadvertently or that is not expressly stated in writing.

unified commander
For the purpose of this publication, the Commander, USEUCOM (ECLA), APO AE 09128.

U.S. country representative
The senior officer appointed by the designated commanding officer to act as the POC for the Services
with the respective U.S. diplomatic mission and with the national authorities of a particular foreign
country regarding the exercise of foreign criminal jurisdiction over U.S. personnel.

U.S. Forces personnel
Military personnel of the U.S. Armed Forces, regardless of nationality; civilians who are U.S. nationals
and are serving with, employed by, or accompanying the U.S. Armed Forces; and their Family members.

U.S. personnel
U.S. military personnel, regardless of nationality; civilians who are U.S. nationals and are serving with,
employed by, or accompanying the U.S. military forces; and their Family members. Although attaché
personnel and other military personnel serving under the direction of a chief of a U.S. diplomatic
mission may enjoy diplomatic status and are not considered U.S. personnel for the purpose of this
publication, commanders and senior military officers will ensure, in coordination with and on approval
of the chief of the respective U.S. diplomatic mission, that such personnel are provided the benefits and
protection of this publication.

visiting force
The military forces of one country stationed temporarily in the geographic area of another country with
the latter’s consent.




                                                        146
                           AE Reg 550-50/CNE-C6F Inst 5820.8K/USAFE Inst 51-706 ● 26 Nov 07
