BY ORDER OF THE                                            HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 51-902

                                                                          10 DECEMBER 2009
                                                             Certified Current 31 December 2013
                                                                                           Law

                                                               FUNDRAISING AND ON-BASE
                                                                          SOLICITATION



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/JA                                                    Certified by: HQ USAFA/JA
Supersedes: USAFAI 51-902,                                           (Maj Richard A. Williams)
            12 December 2000                                                           Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-9, Civil Law for Individuals,
and establishes procedures to obtain approval for fundraising and on-base commercial
solicitation. It applies to all individuals and organizations that want to engage in commercial
solicitation or fundraising on United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) property, except
individuals or companies requesting permission to sell products or services in the lobby of the
Base Exchange or at other Army & AF Exchange Service (AAFES) facilities. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed
of in accordance with the AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for listing of
references.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. Commercial Solicitation. Commercial solicitation includes any attempt to conduct private
business on USAFA property. This includes, but is not limited to, selling items such as milk
delivery, insurance, cosmetics, real estate, home improvements, kitchenware, etc. Also included
are free promotions by businesses or their agents (such as Welcome Wagon).
2                                                        USAFAI51-902 10 DECEMBER 2009


    1.1. No person has authority to enter the USAFA and transact personal commercial
    solicitation as a matter of right. Commercial solicitation on USAFA will be permitted only if
    the solicitor complies with Department of Defense (DoD) and USAFA instructions, is duly
    licensed under the applicable Federal and State law, and has a specific appointment with the
    individual concerned.
    1.2. All commercial solicitations will be by specific invitation only, and may be conducted
    only in family housing (excluding dormitories), the Community Center, or Arnold Hall
    (when cadets are the inviters). Appointments with DoD personnel will not be held while the
    person is at work or in “on-duty” status. DoD personnel who are at work or in “on-duty”
    status will not be contacted, either by telephone or in person, for the purpose of securing an
    appointment.
    1.3. Financial presentations, including financial planning and home buying seminars, are not
    permitted on USAFA, except for educational presentations conducted by the Airman and
    Family Readiness Center or other agency tasked with such education. Under no
    circumstances shall educational presentations be conducted by commercial agents, including
    representatives of loan, financial, insurance, or investment companies.
    1.4. The Commander, 10th Air Base Wing (10 ABW/CC), may revoke permission to
    conduct business on the USAFA for failure to abide by these rules.
2. Fundraising. Fundraising includes any organized method of collecting funds or material for
recognized charities, nonprofit organizations, social activities, or unit welfare funds. The
Combined Federal Campaign (CFC) and the Air Force Assistance Fund (AFAF) Campaign are
the primary means of charitable fundraising on Air Force installations. As a general rule, no
other fundraising activities will be authorized during those campaigns.
    2.1. The approval authority for fundraisers is delegated to the Commander, 10th Force
    Support Squadron (10 FSS/CC), except that requests for fundraisers during the CFC or
    AFAF campaigns must be approved by 10 ABW/CC.
    2.2. Private organizations are composed of individuals acting exclusively outside the scope
    of any official capacity. They operate on DoD installations with the written consent of the
    installation commander. Unofficial activities and organizations, such as unit coffee funds,
    flower funds, and other small, usually interoffice activities, do not require approval from the
    installation commander as long as they do not have assets that exceed a monthly average of
    $1,000.00 over a 3-month period.
    2.3. Both private organizations and unofficial activities and organizations shall be self-
    sustaining, primarily through dues, contributions, service charges, fees, and special
    assessments of their members. Occasional fundraisers may be permitted, but ordinarily no
    more than two fundraisers per calendar year will be approved.
    2.4. Fundraising activities will not compete with any AAFES or nonappropriated fund
    instrumentality. Fundraising activities will not be conducted in the workplace. DoD
    personnel will not engage in fundraising activities while at work or in “on-duty” status.
    2.5. Requests for fundraisers shall be submitted on AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, to
    Resource Management Flight (10 FSS/FSR) at least 4 weeks in advance of the event. The
    staff summary sheet shall provide for coordination by 10 FSS/FSR, AAFES, Staff Judge
USAFAI51-902 10 DECEMBER 2009                                                                3


   Advocate (HQ USAFA/JA), and approval by 10 FSS/CC. If the event will be held during the
   CFC or AFAF campaigns, 10 ABW/CC will be the approval authority. Some fundraising
   activities will require insurance coverage. In those cases, proof of insurance must be
   submitted with the request.
      2.5.1. The first paragraph of the staff summary sheet shall set out in detail where and
      when the fundraiser will be held, the type of fundraiser, its purpose, and how the funds
      will be used.
      2.5.2. The second paragraph of the staff summary sheet shall indicate the number of
      fundraisers the requester has held during the calendar year. No more than two
      fundraisers per requestor will ordinarily be approved each calendar year.
      2.5.3. 10 FSS/FSR will return requests that fail to comply with these requirements to the
      requestor for correction.
   2.6. 10 ABW/CC may withdraw permission to operate or conduct fundraisers on the USAFA
   for failure to comply with this instruction.
3. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   3.1. Prescribed Forms. No forms are prescribed.
   3.2. Adopted Forms.
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                           RONALD J. WILLIAMS, Colonel, USAF
                                           Staff Judge Advocate
4                                                    USAFAI51-902 10 DECEMBER 2009


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DODI 1000.15, Private Organizations on DoD Installations
DODD 1344.07, Personal Commercial Solicitation on DoD Installation
DODD 5035.1, Combined Federal Campaign Fund-Raising Within the Department of Defense
DODD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation
AFI 34-223, Private Organization Program
AFI 36-3101, Fundraising Within the Air Force
AFPD51-9, Civil Law for Individuals

Terms
AAFES—Army & AF Exchange Service
AFAF—Air Force Assistance Fund
CFC—Combined Federal Campaign
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
