BY ORDER OF THE                                            HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 34-103

                                                                                 9 MARCH 2011

                                                                                           Services

                                                              PEREGRINE PINES FAMCAMP

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 FSS/FSCO                                           Certified by: 10 FSS/CL (Mr. Gary S.
Supersedes: USAFAI34-103, 6 September                                                 Garland)
            2007                                                                       Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-1, Air Force Services
Combat Support Programs, 1 November 1997. This instruction prescribes procedures governing
the operation and use of the Family Campground (FamCamp), which is under the control of the
Outdoor Recreation Center, United States Air Force Academy (USAFA). This instruction
applies to all personnel utilizing the Peregrine Pines FamCamp and is written to best serve the
entire customer base of the facility. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard (ANG). The intent of the FamCamp is to
provide an opportunity for rest and relaxation of military families while visiting USAFA. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates office symbols from the 10th Services Division to the 10th Force Support
Squadron throughout. Paragraph 2.3.2. has changed to show 90% of reservations instead of
80%.
1. ELIGIBILITY:
   1.1. Patron eligibility is outlined in AFI 34-262, Services Programs and Use Eligibility.
   1.2. Exceptions to eligibility and priority, due to the unique mission of USAFA, are:
2                                                             USAFAI34-103 9 MARCH 2011


       1.2.1. USAFA cadets will be given top priority for Parents’ Weekend and Graduation.
       1.2.2. As guests of USAFA, alumni will retain priority status for class reunions,
       regardless of their military affiliation at that time.
2. POLICIES:
    2.1. Reservations:
       2.1.1. Active duty personnel can make reservations 90 days in advance and all other
       eligible patrons can make reservations within 60 days of their arrival for the months of
       May 1 to September 30 (High Season). There will be no reservations for October 1 to
       April 30 (Low Season). Availability during Low Season will be on a first-come, first-
       served basis. (Exceptions to Reservation Policy are outlined in Paragraph 2.1.2.)
       2.1.2. The USAFA cadets (for their immediate families) can make reservations for two
       sites up to one year in advance for Graduation and for one site up to one year in advance
       for Parents’ Weekend, for a total of two weeks per year. At all other times of the year,
       cadets will retain eligibility of other active duty personnel. The USAFA Class Reunion
       participants may also make reservations one year in advance, one site for one week.
       2.1.3. Eligible patrons may make a reservation by providing a valid credit card number
       (Visa or Master Card). The reservation will then be considered “guaranteed” and a site
       will be saved for that eligible user. Specific sites cannot be guaranteed, due to the
       objective of maximum occupancy.
       2.1.4. The credit card will be charged for one night for no-shows. If reservations are
       cancelled 48 hours prior there will be no cancellation fee. If the user does not arrive by
       0900 the following day, or has not been heard from, the reservation will be cancelled and
       the site made available to another eligible user.
       2.1.5. Eligible patrons are authorized to sign-in one bonafide guest only (one site). The
       sponsor must be present at check-in time and be responsible for guest/family members.
       The USAFA cadets may make check-in arrangements for their guests via email since
       their schedules may be restrictive, but must use a base email account. No group
       reservations will be accepted unless approved by the Community Support Flight Chief,
       and all requests must be submitted in writing.
    2.2. Length of Occupancy:
       2.2.1. Reservations will be for a period up to 30 days. Maximum stay at FamCamp, per
       family, during the High Season is 30 days. Any requests to stay longer must be in
       writing and approved by the Community Support Flight Chief.
       2.2.2. Exceptions to the 30-day rule include PCS or TDY personnel assigned to USAFA
       (Copy of Orders required), and the Space Available Policy outlined below.
       2.2.3. A sponsored guest is limited to 14 days only.
    2.3. Space Available Policy:
       2.3.1. A request for an extension may only be made on the day prior to departure. The
       present and projected occupancy rate will determine whether the extension will be
       granted and for how long. Because USAFA is a vacation destination and not all travelers
USAFAI34-103 9 MARCH 2011                                                                  3


       make reservations, a portion of the park will remain available for “drive ups,” as opposed
       to being occupied by those that have stayed for 30 days or more.
       2.3.2. If occupancy and projected reservations are 90% or greater at the time of the
       request, an extension will not be granted. If occupancy and projected reservations are
       less than 90%, an extension will be granted for the period up to 90% occupancy or 7
       days, whichever comes first. There is no limit to the number of Space Available
       extensions, if occupancy warrants.
3. PRESCRIBED AND ADOPTED FORMS.

3.1. Prescribed Forms.

No forms are prescribed.

3.2. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                            TODD W. ROBISON, Col, USAF
                                            Vice Commander, 10th Air Base Wing
 4                                                         USAFAI34-103 9 MARCH 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services Combat Support Programs, 1 November 1997
AFI 34-262, Services Programs and Use Eligibility, 27 June 2002

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN— Air Force Manual
AFPD— Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC— Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS— Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG— Air National Guard
OPR— Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA— United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI34-103 9 MARCH 2011                                                                            5


                                          Attachment 2
                                  RULES & REGULATIONS

A2.1. . Sponsors are responsible for the safe and proper conduct of dependent children, guests,
pets, etc., at all times while using the FamCamp and surrounding areas.
   A2.1.1. No one under the age of 18 will be allowed to camp without an adult with them.
   A2.1.2. An adult sponsor must accompany children less than 12 years of age at all times.
   A2.1.3. Pets not having complete and current immunizations are not permitted in the
   FamCamp area. Pets must be on a leash no longer than 6 feet in length and accompanied
   when outside the trailer/vehicle. Secure kennels are permissible to be outdoors, but not after
   quiet hours. Pets must be picked up after, regardless of where, at all times.
A2.2. No vehicles, trailers, equipment, etc., will be left unlocked or unattended without
permission of the FamCamp Manager. FamCamp will not be responsible for lost or stolen
articles.
A2.3. The consumption of alcoholic beverages in the FamCamp area as well as on USAFA by
individuals less than 21 years of age is prohibited.
A2.4. No open campfires (wood burning) are authorized. Personnel utilizing barbeque grills
must clean them and the surrounding area and dispose of debris in containers provided by
FamCamp. Hot charcoal must be extinguished with water.
A2.5. Hunting is not permitted on the USAF Academy. Firearms are prohibited at FamCamp;
they must be secured at the Security Forces Armory.
A2.6. Before departing the FamCamp, tenants will police area.
A2.7. Personnel using laundry facilities will clean up after each use.
A2.8. No additional external propane tanks allowed during High Season.
A2.9. Prior to moving into a site, all personnel must check-in at the FamCamp office during
normal business hours or with resident night caretaker during non-business hours.
A2.10. There will be no vehicle maintenance allowed in sites, nor the complete washing of
motor homes. Guests must utilize the Auto Hobby Shop or off-base facility for such activities.
A2.11. There is a limit of 8 people per site, 2 vehicles, and 1 tent (in RV site) or 2 tents (tent
sites) limit of 2 weeks in tents. No horse trailers allowed.
A2.12. The designated quiet hours are 2200 to 0800. No loud partying, loud TV, radio, or stereo
are permitted after this time. Early risers and those hooking up and/or departing before 0800
must be considerate of their sleeping neighbors.
A2.13. Primary use of the FamCamp is for recreation and should not be construed as a year
round living facility. PCS/TDY personnel should make every effort to limit their stay.
A2.14. The FamCamp sites will not be used for business purposes!
A2.15. All matters of concern regarding the FamCamp, not covered herein, will be addressed by
the 10 FSS/FSC.
