BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                USAFE INSTRUCTION 32-7047
US AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                                              14 NOVEMBER 2003
                                                                     Certified current on of 21 March 2014
                                                                                         Civil Engineering

                                                          ENVIRONMENTAL OPEN ENFORCEMENT
                                                             ACTION TRACKING AND REPORTING



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAFE/CEVQ                                                          Certified by: HQ USAFE/CEV
       (Ms. Lauren D. Colunga)                                                   (Lt Col Stuart D. Hartford)
Supersedes USAFEI 32-7047, 9 September 1997.                                                       Pages: 8
                                                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction implements DoD Instruction 4715.5, Management of Environmental Compliance at
Overseas Installations; AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality; and AFI 32-7006, Environmental Programs
in Foreign Countries. This instruction establishes requirements for managing environmental open
enforcement actions (OEA). Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed processes in
accordance with Air Force Manual 37-139, Records Disposition Schedule. This instruction is applicable
to all United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) installations.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.


This revision more clearly indicates that the term “open enforcement action” refers only to violations of
environmental standards that have been validated by the HQ USAFE Environmental Protection Commit-
tee (EPC) Compliance Subcommittee. This revision places the responsibility for opening and closing
enforcement actions with this committee. Although installations are responsible for the correction of envi-
ronmental violations at their base, and they oversee day-to-day progress toward the closure of environ-
mental violations, installations will not make the determination to close an OEA. This revision expands
the definition of a closed enforcement action, specifies closeout procedures, clarifies initial reporting pro-
cedures, establishes new reply deadlines for both HQ USAFE/CEV and installations, and makes other
minor clarifications. Finally, this revision now prescribes the use of USAFE Form 58, Potential Open
Enforcement Action Written Report, and USAFE Form 59, Open Enforcement Action Management Plan,
when reporting possible OEAs and management action plans to HQ USAFE/CEV.
2                                                              USAFEI 32-7047 14 NOVEMBER 2003


                                                Chapter 1

                             BACKGROUND AND RESPONSIBILITIES

1.1. Background . This instruction establishes requirements for USAFE installations to comply with the
tracking and reporting requirements of AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality. The primary goal of this
instruction is to identify the responsible parties and describe procedures necessary to validate, correct and
close open enforcement actions.

1.2. Responsibilities:
    1.2.1. The HQ USAFE EPC Compliance Subcommittee will review environmental violations submit-
    ted by USAFE installations, validate or invalidate these violations as open enforcement actions
    (OEA), and make the final determination regarding OEA closure.
    1.2.2. The HQ USAFE Environmental Division (HQ USAFE/CEV) will chair the EPC Compliance
    Subcommittee, direct the development of OEA policy, allocate resources, and oversee installation
    progress toward the closure of OEAs.
    1.2.3. Installations shall comply with this instruction, country-specific DoD Final Governing Stan-
    dards (FGS), the Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document (for countries where there
    are no FGS) and other program execution policies. Installations are directly responsible for the resolu-
    tion of environmental violations and the oversight of corrective actions on a day-to-day basis.
       1.2.3.1. Installations shall work aggressively to properly validate, track and close OEAs as soon
       as possible. HQ USAFE/CEV’s goal is to have no OEAs.
USAFEI 32-7047 14 NOVEMBER 2003                                                                             3


                                                 Chapter 2

                         OPEN ENFORCEMENT ACTION DESCRIPTION

2.1. Open Enforcement Action (OEA). An OEA is a written notice from a host nation regulatory
authority indicating one or more violations of host nation environmental requirements that has been vali-
dated by the HQ USAFE Environmental Protection Committee (EPC) Compliance Subcommittee. The
cited condition must reflect at least one of the following criteria:
   2.1.1. Noncompliance with applicable country-specific DoD Final Governing Standards (FGS) or, for
   countries where no FGS exist, the Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document (OEBGD).
   2.1.2. Noncompliance with US obligations under any applicable international agreement.
   2.1.3. Noncompliance with a host nation environmental requirement not addressed in the FGS or
   OEBGD that has been evaluated by the HQ USAFE EPC Compliance Subcommittee and determined
   to be valid.

2.2. Cleanup OEA. An OEA related to contamination caused by past operations. Cleanup OEAs are also
tracked under the USAFE Cleanup Program.

2.3. Closed Enforcement Action. An OEA that has been closed by the HQ USAFE EPC Compliance
Subcommittee is a closed enforcement action. Closure of an OEA by the Compliance Subcommittee does
not necessarily indicate that the host nation authority has officially closed a violation; this often does not
occur until all corrective actions are completed and inspected by the host nation authority. Before the HQ
USAFE EPC Compliance Subcommittee may close an OEA, one of the following events must occur:
   2.3.1. The host nation authority rescinds the violation.
   2.3.2. The host nation authority indicates by letter that the corrective action or planned corrective
   action is a satisfactory resolution of the cited violation.
       2.3.2.1. If a host nation authority agrees that planned corrective actions will resolve the cited vio-
       lation, then the HQ USAFE EPC Compliance Subcommittee may close the OEA, provided that:
       (1) funding for the project has been allocated in full, and 2) there is a clear indication that the
       project will be completed in a reasonable amount of time (as determined by HQ USAFE/CEV).
   2.3.3. The host nation authority does not respond to the installation within 60 days of receiving writ-
   ten notification that the violation has been corrected. Written notification to the host nation authority
   will be provided in both English and the host nation language.

2.4. Enforcement Action. An enforcement action is a written notice from a host nation regulatory
authority reporting one or more violations of local, regional, or federal host nation environmental require-
ments.

2.5. Estimated Closure Date. The date the installation expects the OEA to be eligible for closure by the
HQ USAFE EPC Compliance Subcommittee. This date may differ from the estimated fix date.

2.6. Estimated Fix Date. The date the installation expects all violations associated with an OEA to be
corrected.
4                                                            USAFEI 32-7047 14 NOVEMBER 2003


2.7. Installation . An installation is any main operating base (MOB), geographically separated unit
(GSU), or site on USAFE’s real property records (e.g., communications site).

2.8. Potential Enforcement Action. A verbal or written notice from a host nation regulatory govern-
mental authority indicating one or more violations of host nation environmental requirements that has the
potential to be validated as an open enforcement action by the HQ USAFE EPC Compliance Subcommit-
tee.
USAFEI 32-7047 14 NOVEMBER 2003                                                                            5


                                                Chapter 3

                                    POLICY AND PROCEDURES

3.1. Potential OEA Reporting Procedures:
   3.1.1. The Installation Environmental Protection Committee (EPC) Chairperson will notify HQ
   USAFE/CEV, within one workday after receiving written notice from host nation regulatory authority,
   that activity on the installation or by installation organizations violate host nation environmental stan-
   dards. Initial notifications may be made by telephone to HQ USAFE/CEV (DSN 480-6382); however,
   USAFE Form 58, Potential Open Enforcement Action Written Report, must be submitted to HQ
   USAFE/CEV within two duty days after the potential OEA is received. USAFE Form 58 may be sub-
   mitted in person to HQ USAFE/CEV, by fax (DSN 480-9231), or by electronic mail
   (mailto:USAFE.CEV@ramstein.af.mil).
      3.1.1.1. If a visit or inspection by a host nation authority generates, or is likely to generate, a
      notice of a serious violation, create significant media attention, or have significant off-base
      impacts (e.g., adversely impact good relations with local communities), the EPC Chairperson shall
      concurrently notify USAFE/CV, NAF/CC, HQ USAFE/PAM and (through HQ USAFE/CE) the
      Environmental Executive Agent.
   3.1.2. Installations will send copies and complete English translations of all host nation and related
   correspondence associated with potential enforcement actions to HQ USAFE/CEV, Unit 3050 Box
   10, APO AE 09094, within 15 days of receipt. This includes all follow-up correspondence sent or
   received between the time a violation is reported and the time a violation is closed (e.g., notification
   of planned or executed corrective actions, the installation’s response to the host nation authority when
   a potential OEA is not validated, or the host nation response to notification of corrective action).

3.2. OEA Validation Procedures:
   3.2.1. Within 15 days of receipt of USAFE Form 58 and applicable host nation correspondence, the
   HQ USAFE EPC Compliance Subcommittee will evaluate the enforcement action to determine if it
   meets the definition of an OEA.
   3.2.2. HQ USAFE/CEV will send written notification to the installation civil engineer indicating the
   results of the subcommittee review within 15 days of making a decision.
   3.2.3. If the violation is validated as an OEA, the installation will follow the reporting procedures out-
   lined in paragraph 3.3.2.
   3.2.4. If the violation is not validated as an OEA, the installation EPC Chairperson, in coordination
   with the host nation installation commander, if any, must provide written notification of planned cor-
   rective actions to the host nation authority. The installation should coordinate responses to the host
   nation authority through its staff judge advocate and public affairs office.
   3.2.5. Installations will forward information copies of all correspondence (including English transla-
   tions) between the base and host nation authorities to HQ USAFE/CEV, whether validated as an OEA
   or not.

3.3. OEA Reporting Procedures:
6                                                                USAFEI 32-7047 14 NOVEMBER 2003


    3.3.1. In addition to the information submitted in USAFE Form 58, the installation civil engineer
    shall submit USAFE Form 59, Open Enforcement Action Management Action Plan, to HQ
    USAFE/CEV within 30 days of being notified that a violation has been validated as an OEA.
    3.3.2. Recurring OEA Reporting Procedures. In addition to submitting USAFE Form 58 and the
    initial USAFE Form 59, installations are responsible for the following additional reporting require-
    ments.
       3.3.2.1. Installation environmental flight personnel shall update and send USAFE Form 59 to
       USAFE/CEV by the third working day of each month until the OEA is closed. USAFE/CEV will
       forward these updated management action plans to the Regional Environmental Office by the 5th
       working day of each month.
       3.3.2.2. Installations shall report OEA information through the quarterly Environmental Stan-
       dards of Excellence data call required by USAFE/CEV.
       3.3.2.3. Installations shall update the OEA portions of the Air Force Internet Data Call System
       (located at http://www.afcee.brooks.af.mil/da/dusd/starthere.asp) on a quarterly or
       semi-annual basis, as required by HQ USAF/ILEV.
       3.3.2.4. OEAs related to contamination caused by past operations, will also be tracked under the
       USAFE Cleanup Program and given the status of “Cleanup OEA.” Projects to correct violations
       associated with these OEAs will be supported if sites are confirmed by HQ USAFE EPC Cleanup
       Subcommittee to meet DoD overseas cleanup policy requirements.

3.4. Closeout Procedures:
    3.4.1. Within 15 working days after completing all measures to close an OEA, the installation civil
    engineer will send written notification to the applicable host nation authority stating that all actions to
    correct the violation have been completed. A copy of this notification must also be sent to HQ
    USAFE/CEV.
    3.4.2. Alternatively, if a project has been developed to correct all violations associated with an OEA
    and funding for the project has been allocated in full, the installation environmental coordinator, in
    coordination with the installation EPC Chairperson, will send written notification to the applicable
    host nation authority with a complete description of the planned activities. This notification shall be
    sent to the host nation within fifteen working days after funding is allocated, and a copy must be sent
    to HQ USAFE/CEV.
    3.4.3. If the host nation authority does not respond to the notification within 60 days, the installation
    EPC Chairperson must send HQ USAFE/CEV a written statement indicating the status of the viola-
    tion and the lack of host nation response.
    3.4.4. The installation civil engineer must forward copies of all correspondence from the host nation
    authority either rescinding the violation, or approving proposed or completed actions to correct the
    violation, to HQ USAFE/CEV within 15 days of receipt.

3.5. Final OEA Closure Determination:
    3.5.1. Upon receipt of all relevant correspondence and documentation, the HQ USAFE EPC Compli-
    ance Subcommittee will evaluate the status of the OEA and determine closure eligibility based on the
USAFEI 32-7047 14 NOVEMBER 2003                                                                            7


   definition of a Closed Enforcement Action (paragraph 2.3.). HQ USAFE/CEV will notify either the
   installation EPC Chairperson or installation civil engineer of the final closure decision in writing.
   3.5.2. If an OEA is closed prior to completing all corrective actions (paragraph 3.4.2.), the installation
   must continue to track the violation until the host nation authority has closed it. The installation civil
   engineer shall send written notification and correspondence regarding the closed enforcement action
   to HQ USAFE/CEV when the host nation authority closes the action.
   3.5.3. If the Compliance Subcommittee determines that the OEA cannot be closed, tracking will con-
   tinue until all issues have been resolved and the Compliance Subcommittee closes the OEA.

3.6. Forms Prescribed:
USAFE Form 58, Potential Open Enforcement Action Written Report
USAFE Form 59, Open Enforcement Action Management Action Plan



                                                      JON D. VERLINDE, Colonel, USAF
                                                      The USAFE Civil Engineer
8                                                         USAFEI 32-7047 14 NOVEMBER 2003


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD Instruction 4715.5, Management of Environmental Compliance at Overseas Installations
DoD Instruction 4715.8, Environmental Remediation for DoD Activities Overseas
DoD Directive 6050.16, DoD Policy for Establishing and Implementing Environmental Standards at
Overseas Installations
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality
AFI 32-7006, Environmental Program in Foreign Countries

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
EPC—Environmental Protection Committee
FGS—Final Governing Standards
O&M—Operations and Maintenance
OEA—Open Enforcement Action
OEBGD—Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFEI—USAFE Instruction
