BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                       INSTRUCTION 36-710
(USAFE)                                                                                  26 JULY 2005
                                                                     Certified Current 7 November 2011
                                                                                             Personnel

                                                        ADMINISTRATION OF RESIDENT NON-US
                                                               CITIZEN PERSONNEL - TURKEY



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAFE/A1CP (Mr. Peter Blaettner)                                Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1CP
                                                                                     (Ms. Marcia Miller)
Supersedes USAFEI36-710, 22 July 2002                                                           Pages: 4
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-7, Employee and Labor Management Rela-
tions. It establishes policy for the employment and management of a resident non-US citizen work force
by the United States (US) Forces in Turkey and outlines the employment arrangement governing this
work force and provides for further administrative implementation of valid employment conditions. This
publication applies to resident non-US citizen personnel who are members of a work force under individ-
ual employment contracts with the US Forces in Turkey. Ensure that all records created as a result of pro-
cesses prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of
Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at: https://webrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision changes orga-
nizational symbols to reflect Headquarters United States Air Forces in Europe (HQ USAFE) A-Staff
nomenclature. Organizational office symbols have changed from DPC to A1CP in the certifier line, from
DPC to A1C in paragraph 2.4., from DPCP to A1CP in the OPR line, and in paragraphs 3.2., 3.3., 3.4.,
and 3.5. It also updates the approving official’s signature block.


1. Terms Explained:
   1.1. Resident Non-US Citizen Personnel. Resident non-US citizen personnel are members of a
   work force under individual employment contracts with the US Forces in Turkey. They fall into one of
   three categories:
2                                                                        USAFEI36-710 26 JULY 2005


       1.1.1. Those who are members of or pay solidarity dues to a recognized Turkish labor union who
       has concluded a current valid collective labor agreement with the US Forces, and who are subject
       to this labor agreement by virtue of their membership or solidarity status.
       1.1.2. Those individuals who are neither members of nor solidarity dues payers to a union who
       have a current valid collective labor agreement with the US Forces, and who are subject to the
       terms of that labor agreement, by virtue of an individual employment contract.
       1.1.3. Those individuals who are subject to the terms of the labor agreement by virtue of occupy-
       ing an out-of-scope position specified in the labor agreement to which they have been assigned
       based on an individual employment contract.
    1.2. Collective Labor Agreement. A collective labor agreement is a document outlining employ-
    ment and pay conditions negotiated between a labor union authorized to bargain under Turkish law
    and the US Forces as employer of the work force at that work site.
    1.3. Work Site. The activity or group of activities of the US Forces, identified by a separate work site
    registration number assigned by Turkish authorities.

2. Employment Policies:
    2.1. Employment by the US Forces will be consistent with local laws and practices as defined in DOD
    1400.25-M, Department of Defense Civilian Personnel Manual (CPM), and USEUCOM Directive
    30-6, Administration of Civilian Employees in the United States European Command Area of Respon-
    sibility.
    2.2. Selection for appointment and in-service placement will be based on qualification standards
    developed by the US Forces.
    2.3. Final employment is subject to satisfactory completion of trial period, medical examination, and
    background investigation prescribed by the US Forces.
    2.4. Rates of pay and conditions of employment are subject to negotiation by the US Forces with
    authorized unions, or in the absence of authorized unions, are established by the US Forces based on
    industry practices for comparable conditions. Authority to establish rates of pay and total compensa-
    tion levels for all non-US citizen personnel, as defined in paragraph 1.1. above, whether negotiated
    with a recognized union or established by the US Forces, rests at the component commander level
    (Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe (COMUSAFE)). This authority is carried out by the
    Chief, Civilian Personnel & Personnel Resources (HQ USAFE/A1C) on behalf of COMUSAFE and
    may not be re-delegated.
    2.5. Pay grades are assigned by the US Forces based on the value of the major duties performed by
    the employee.
    2.6. Members of the resident non-US citizen work force are free to join or not to join a labor union.
    The US Forces will not subject an employee to reprisal, duress, or adverse action because of his mem-
    bership or non-membership in a labor union.

3. Administrative Policy:
USAFEI36-710 26 JULY 2005                                                                             3


  3.1. The conditions of employment and pay negotiated or established and published by the US Forces
  for the resident non-US work force will be recognized and abided by all US Forces activities regard-
  less of source of funds from which that work force is paid.
  3.2. Interpretations and procedural instructions to implement employment and pay conditions will be
  provided by the USAFE Civilian Policy Branch (HQ USAFE/A1CP) or by the 39th Mission Support
  Squadron, Civilian Personnel Flight (39 MSS/DPC). Consultation between the two offices and
  approval by HQ USAFE/A1CP is required prior to implementation. Pay scales reflecting negotiated
  union pay increases will be completed, prepared and distributed by 39 MSS/DPC.
  3.3. Local supplementation of procedural instructions, where necessary, will be subject to the concur-
  rence of HQ USAFE/A1CP through 39 MSS/DPC.
  3.4. Administrative requirements for the resident non-US work force will be met by US Forces Civil-
  ian Personnel Offices as outlined in pertinent Air Force or Armed Forces Exchange Service (AAFES)
  publications unless exemption from compliance with such requirements is contained in instructions
  from HQ USAFE/A1CP or 39 MSS/DPC.
  3.5. All requests for personnel and position actions will be submitted to the servicing US Forces per-
  sonnel flight or office. Appointments, changes in grade, changes in work or pay status, and separa-
  tions will be made only by or with the approval of the servicing personnel flight, office, or HQ
  USAFE/A1CP, as required.



                                             JOHN A. SNIDER, Colonel, USAF
                                             Director of Personnel
4                                                              USAFEI36-710 26 JULY 2005


                                       Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DOD 1400.25-M, Department of Defense Civilian Personnel Manual (CPM)
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor Management Relations
USEUCOM Dir 30-6, Administration of Civilian Employees in the United States European Command
Area of Responsibility

Abbreviations and Acronyms
COMUSAFE—Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
US—United States
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
