BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3536

                                                                            4 DECEMBER 2014

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                             ALLOCATION OF CADET TIME

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/CWTS                                                        Certified by: USAFA/CW
                                                                    (Brig Gen Stephen Williams)
Supersedes:    USAFAI36-2014,                                                          Pages: 24
               15 July 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-20, Accession of Air Force
Military Personnel, and prescribes procedures for the allocation of cadet time. It establishes the
sources of authority for determining the specific uses of cadet time and for granting excusals
from approved duties, activities, or events. It establishes eligibility requirements for excusals
and the limitations on the amount of academic classes from which cadets may be excused. It
includes a list of priorities that determine precedence when conflicts occur. Any United States
Air Force Academy (USAFA) agency requesting cadet time will comply with the authorizations,
precedence, eligibility requirements, and procedures contained in this instruction. In case of
conflicts with other USAFAI or guidance, this instruction takes precedence. This publication
does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the Air National Guard (ANG).
Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to USAFA Cadet
Wing Training, Scheduling Division (USAFA/CWTS), 2354 Fairchild Drive, Suite 4A4,
USAFA, CO 80840, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication;
route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management Systems
(AFRIMS) Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been renumbered from United States Air Force Academy Instruction
(USAFAI) 36-2014 to USAFAI 36-3536 to align with the AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force
 2                                                                               USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014


Academy, being implemented. This instruction has been substantially revised and should be
thoroughly reviewed.

Chapter 1—CADET EXCUSAL AUTHORITIES                                                                                                         3
      1.1.   Command, Time Allocation, and Excusals. ...........................................................                            3
      1.2.   Attendance and Excusal from Scheduled Duty. .....................................................                              5
      1.3.   Procedures for Obtaining USAFA Scheduling Committee Coordination. ............                                                 7
      1.4.   General Guidance and Policies for Excusing Cadets from Duty. ..........................                                        8
      1.5.   Individual SCAs: ....................................................................................................          9
      1.6.   Group SCAs. ..........................................................................................................        12
      1.7.   Course Absences. ...................................................................................................          14
      1.8.   Intercollegiate Athletic Authorizations. .................................................................                    14
      1.9.   Airmanship Authorizations. ...................................................................................                15

Chapter 2—NONACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS AND SICK CALL                                                                                           17
      2.1.   Nonacademic Appointments. .................................................................................                   17
      2.2.   Sick Call. ................................................................................................................   17

Chapter 3—CADET PHYSIOLOGICAL TRAINING PROGRAM                                                                                             18
      3.1.   Who Must Participate. ...........................................................................................             18
      3.2.   Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................       18

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             19

Attachment 2—ORDER OF PRECEDENCE                                                                                                           22

Attachment 3—AUTHORIZED ACADEMIC EXCUSAL TIME FOR
             INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETICS                                                                                                     24
USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014                                                                3



                                         Chapter 1

                           CADET EXCUSAL AUTHORITIES

1.1. Command, Time Allocation, and Excusals.
   1.1.1. The Superintendent (USAFA/CC) exercises overall command authority and
   operational control (OPCON) of permanent party personnel and cadets. USAFA/CC through
   the Academy Board exercises overall authority for the allocation of cadet time and
   establishes the Schedule of Calls (SOC). The Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW) through
   the Group and Squadron Air Officers Commanding (AOC) exercises command authority,
   OPCON and Administrative Control (ADCON) as well as Tactical Control (TACON) during
   times in the SOC not directed to other Mission Elements. USAFA/CW, the Dean of Faculty
   (USAFA/DF), the Director of Athletics (USAFA/AD), and the 306th Flying Training Group
   Commander (306 FTG/CC) have the authority to excuse cadets from scheduled activities
   within their respective Mission Element (ME). To facilitate the diverse requirements and
   challenging schedules of cadets across all MEs, the USAFA Scheduling Committee was
   established as a standing committee of the Academy Board per USAFAI 36-3540, The US
   Air Force Academy Board, to serve as a central coordinating activity. Cadets must attend all
   scheduled formations and accomplish all duties unless excused by the proper authority.
   1.1.2. The USAFA Scheduling Committee acts on behalf of the Superintendent and the
   Academy Board when reviewing requests that involve the loss of scheduled academic,
   military, athletic, airmanship, or personal time.
      1.1.2.1. The chairman of the Scheduling Committee is the Director of Training Support
      (USAFA/CWT) or his/her (grade equivalent) designated representative. The Chair acts
      on behalf of the Superintendent and enforces institutional perspectives. Decisions of the
      Scheduling Committee Chair are final. The voting members of the committee are
      representatives from USAFA/AD, USAFA/CW, and USAFA/DF. The 306 FTG/CC,
      while not a voting member, serves as an advisory member to the board. Designated
      representatives of each ME Commander/Director and the 306 FTG/CC act on their behalf
      for the daily conduct of the Scheduling Committee. Since these individuals represent
      their commanders, coordination can be accomplished and decisions made immediately,
      minimizing coordination with each ME Commander/Director on issues where established
      guidelines can be followed.
      1.1.2.2. The USAFA Scheduling Committee reviews requests for cadet excusals and
      activities schedules. The committee convenes every Tuesday during the academic
      year. Special meetings are convened as required at the request of an ME
      Commander/Director or Vice Commander/Director or as described in paragraph 1.3.9.
      for telephone votes. During summer periods, cadet excusals are coordinated through
      their AOCs and program managers as described in paragraph 1.1.4.
      1.1.2.3. The USAFA Scheduling Committee votes on cadet excusal requests. For cadet
      excusals, the Scheduling Committee possesses authority, and members vote based on
      conflicts and concerns over issues within their respective ME (i.e., the USAFA/DF
      representative votes based on conflicts within Dean of Faculty activities); a unanimous
      vote (3 out of 3 approving) is required for approval. The Scheduling Committee Chair
4                                                        USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014


       has final authority on any Scheduling Committee Action (SCA) brought forward on
       appeal as well as any SCA decisions that do not reach a unanimous vote.
       1.1.2.4. The Scheduling Committee must be notified as soon as possible when planning a
       major event that requires group participation. To avoid conflicts, a review of the Cadet
       Wing Strategic Calendar (CWSC) must be part of the planning process. USAFA/CWTS,
       on behalf of the Scheduling Committee maintains the CWSC. The CWSC lists all major
       ME events for the academic year. Organized group activity SCAs will be posted in Cadet
       Administrative/Management Information System (CAMIS) with the committee’s
       decision.
       1.1.2.5. If an SCA request is disapproved, the requestor may speak with the committee
       members, the ME Vice/Deputy Commander represented by a disapproving vote, and/or
       choose to amend the SCA, and then may resubmit request. For individual requests only,
       if the cadet requestor is still not satisfied, they may forward the request to appeal through
       their respective Group AOC who may appeal the decision to the Scheduling Committee
       Chair as described in 1.1.3.3. below.
    1.1.3. Cadets will electronically staff a non-emergency personal excusal request using
    CAMIS no less than 14 calendar days prior to the event. SCA submission outside this time
    period will be automatically disapproved. Cadets may appeal through their chain of
    command. The CAMIS request will also populate the USAFA Form 17, Request for USAFA
    Scheduling Committee Action, as a part of the request. It will route through their respective
    AOC to Cadet Scheduling (USAFA/CWTSA). Prior to submission to the AOC, each cadet
    must have the respective Cadet Squadron Commander’s coordination.
       1.1.3.1. Cadet’s CAMIS input flows first to AOCs. For cadets on probation, AOCs
       should coordinate with the applicable ME program manager (Intercollegiate Coaches as
       applicable, Athletic Recondition (RECONDO) Officer in Charge (OIC) for cadets on
       Athletic Probation, and the Academic Advisor for cadets on Academic Probation) for
       comments and recommendations; if the AOC still supports the cadet’s excusal after
       reviewing all relevant ME input, the AOC will forward the SCA to the Scheduling
       Committee. The Scheduling Committee will then review the SCA and render their votes.
       If an SCA is approved, the Scheduling Committee will post the SCA and forward it to the
       AOC, along with an SCA number.
       1.1.3.2. The Scheduling Committee’s decision is posted in CAMIS for viewing.
       1.1.3.3. A cadet may appeal disapproved individual excusals by garnering Squadron
       AOC support in appeal to the respective Group AOC. If supporting of the excusal, the
       Group AOC will in turn appeal to the Scheduling Committee Chair. The appeal decision
       of the Scheduling Committee Chair is final. Group requests have no direct appeal to the
       Chair; however, the requestor may speak with committee members, the ME Vice/Deputy
       represented by a disapproving vote, and/or choose to amend the SCA, and then resubmit.
       1.1.3.4. If CAMIS is unavailable, AOCs will coordinate their appeal via e-mail or
       telephone. When this occurs, the AOC is ultimately responsible for ensuring a properly
       completed USAFA Form 17 is entered into CAMIS when CAMIS is available.
    1.1.4. Excusals during summer periods (on last day of class in accordance with
    Finals/Summer Prep/Grad Operation Order (OPORD)) will be submitted to Group AOCs and
USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014                                                                  5


   summer program managers. The representative will approve or disapprove requests for
   excusal from summer programs with the following exceptions: See paragraph 1.1.4.5.
      1.1.4.1. Granting of passes during summer programs will be at the discretion of the
      program Group AOC after ensuring all mission requirements are met. Passes may be
      granted by commanders only. The authority to grant passes to cadets in good standing
      may be delegated, but will not be delegated below the squadron AOC level. The
      authority to grant passes to cadets not in good standing, other than honor probation, will
      not be delegated below the program Group AOC. The authority to grant passes for cadets
      on honor probation remains with Commandant of Cadets through USAFA/CWTS.
      Cadets on any type of probation should reference Air Force Cadet Wing Manual
      (AFCWMAN) 36-3501, The Cadet Sight Picture, for proper procedures to obtain
      approval to take passes. The Summer Cadet Wing Commander is responsible, in
      coordination with USAFA/CWTS, for summer pass privileges.
      1.1.4.2. The Dean of Faculty Office of the Registrar (USAFA/DFR) is delegated
      authority from USAFA/DF to approve or disapprove requests for excusal from summer
      academic sessions.
      1.1.4.3. The Deputy Director of Athletics (USAFA/ADP) is delegated authority from
      USAFA/AD to approve or disapprove request for excusals from summer athletic
      conditioning sessions or physical education classes.
      1.1.4.4. The designated summer Group AOC will approve or disapprove requests for
      excusals from scheduled summer airmanship programs; this authority may be delegated
      to the respective flying training squadron commanders.
      1.1.4.5. Normally, cadets are not granted leave except for Thanksgiving, Winter, and
      Spring Breaks, to include one summer period. The Commandant of Cadets through
      USAFA/CWTS and the Summer Cadet Wing Commander will monitor all cadet time to
      ensure appropriate use of resources. If a cadet finishes a summer program early, no
      additional leave will normally be granted. For additional summer leave, the cadet must
      gain approval from the program’s Group AOC prior to coordinating with cadet Summer
      Scheduling Office (USAFA/CWTSS). Refer to AFCWMAN 36-3501, Cadet Sight
      Picture, for emergency leave.
1.2. Attendance and Excusal from Scheduled Duty.
   1.2.1. Overall, cadets and staff will minimize absences from duty. When determining
   whether or not a request should be approved, AOCs and the Scheduling Committee will
   consider cadet Grade Point Average (GPA), Military Performance Average (MPA), Physical
   Education Average (PEA), and probations.
   1.2.2. Extracurricular activities will not meet during scheduled academic, military, athletic,
   or airmanship classes, training, or during Academic Call to Quarters (ACQ).
   1.2.3. The following documents are directive upon cadets and staff:
      1.2.3.1. The Cadet Wing Schedule of Calls.
      1.2.3.2. The Cadet Wing Military Training Schedule.
      1.2.3.3. The Cadet Academic Schedule.
6                                                         USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014


       1.2.3.4. Supplementary and special schedules (i.e., letters of instruction, appointment
       memorandums, USAFA plans, etc.).
    1.2.4. In the event of conflicts in duties or appointments, cadets will follow the order of
    precedence listed in Attachment 2. When conflicts exist, cadets attend the appointment or
    duty of highest precedence and notify all other agencies or officials that the lower precedence
    appointment or duty will be missed. If the conflict concerns duties or events not listed in the
    order of precedence, cadets will contact their AOC for guidance. Cadets will schedule
    appointments and other activities to avoid conflicts if possible.
    1.2.5. A cadet will accomplish the activity with the higher precedence before performing
    another scheduled duty unless suitable arrangements have been made with the instructor or
    program director of the activity of higher precedence.
    1.2.6. Cadets will attend all formations and be present for duty unless excused by proper
    authority. Reference the applicable Air Force Cadet Wing Instruction (AFCWI).
    1.2.7. Cadets traveling on a group/intercollegiate trip may have team officer representatives
    coordinate with academic instructors to give a Graded Review (GR) on a trip. If the trip is
    canceled, curtailed, or delayed, cadets concerned will attend all scheduled duties.
    1.2.8. Cadets who participate in authorized activities or duty away from USAFA or in the
    cadet area will resume normal schedule of calls when they complete that activity or duty.
    Cadets who return prior to taps will sign in and resume attending mandatory activities upon
    release from night call to quarters, unless crew rest for flying programs is required. Cadets
    who return after taps will sign in and resume attending mandatory activities not later than
    eight hours after their return. They are not excused from class attendance, graded reviews,
    formations, intramurals, etc., after the eight hour period. Coaches/Officers in Charge (OIC)
    will make every effort to return to USAFA in time for cadets to be present for their first duty.
    1.2.9. The following restrictions apply to all requests for excusal from all academic, military,
    airmanship, and athletic classes and training:
       1.2.9.1. If cadets are excused from class or training by SCA, cadets will ensure proper
       coordination is made with AOCs, coaches, and/or instructors, as appropriate prior to
       missing any duty. Academic instructors, AOCs and individuals not representing the
       Scheduling Committee are not authorized to excuse cadets from their respective functions
       without an approved SCA. Cadets with approved SCAs who are excused from class or
       training will be responsible for all material covered during their absence. Instructors or
       AOCs may require cadets to make up all graded reviews, graded recitations, laboratory
       periods, and graded Commissioning Education (CE) or mandatory ancillary training. If
       cadets have prior knowledge of the forthcoming absence, they will turn in all homework
       and accomplish all possible military requirements before departure or make suitable
       arrangements with their instructors. If absent from a graded review, the graded review
       will be scheduled with their instructor and be taken prior to their departure, if possible, or
       within 24 hours of return, based on department guidelines.
       1.2.9.2. Cadets with SCA excusals beginning during a normally scheduled academic,
       military, athletic class, or training period will attend as much of the period as possible.
       They may leave class at the appointed excusal time after coordination with the instructor.
USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014                                                                    7


      At the instructor's discretion, these cadets will be considered to have been present for
      purposes of the Cadet Accountability System (CAS).
      1.2.9.3. Cadets having appointments or SCA excusals that end with 30 minutes or more
      remaining in the period will report to scheduled class for the remainder of the period. At
      the instructor's discretion, these cadets will be considered to have been present for
      purposes of CAS.
1.3. Procedures for Obtaining USAFA Scheduling Committee Coordination.
   1.3.1. Individual cadets or Officers in Charge of group events will electronically submit
   USAFA Form 17 to Cadet Scheduling (USAFA/CWTSA) through CAMIS at least 14
   calendar days before the desired date of excusal. SCA requests not meeting submission
   deadlines will be reviewed by the SCA committee to determine if the SCA request should
   utilize the appeal process for approval. A justification for the late submission must be
   provided. Note: All USAFA Form 17’s will be submitted to the Scheduling Committee for
   tracking purposes.
   1.3.2. Requests must be forwarded through appropriate chain of command and cannot be
   reviewed by the Scheduling Committee unless all required information is provided. If the
   request is for an organized recreational or extracurricular club, team, association, committee,
   etc., it must be routed through the appropriate staff coordinator.
      1.3.2.1. Chapel activities (retreats, choirs, trips, etc.) must be coordinated with the Cadet
      Chaplain's Office (USAFA/HCX) before being sent to USAFA/CWTSA.
      1.3.2.2. Course-related trips must be coordinated through the HQ USAFA/DF
      Department Head and HQ USAFA/DFR.
      1.3.2.3. Airmanship-program trips and requests must be coordinated with the 306th
      Flying Training Group Scheduling Committee Representative (306 OSS/OSTR).
   1.3.3. The excusal request must indicate names of each cadet if the group SCA consists of
   less than 50 cadets (Exception: Intercollegiate (IC) team excusals) departure time from
   USAFA, the final destination, and the time of return to USAFA. Cadets not in good standing
   will obtain AOC approval if probations are allowed. This information will be highlighted in
   the SCA request. A detailed itinerary and mode of transportation must be included.
   1.3.4. The start and end of Schedule of Calls-approved academic, military and athletic
   training time, ACQ, airmanship time, and taps must be considered when requesting excusal.
   Review requests for possible realignment to these times.
   1.3.5. A full explanation of the purpose of the request will include the time and date of the
   planned events, whether any cadets participating are on any type of probation, what classes
   or training missed, the number of duty days missed previously, and semester and cumulative
   GPA, MPA, and PEA for all participants.
   1.3.6. The requester or OIC for group events will, on the USAFA Form 17, verify that cadets
   have been properly screened for eligibility according to paragraph 1.4. of this instruction.
   1.3.7. It is the responsibility of the requester or OIC for group events to prepare and process
   temporary duty orders, if required.
 8                                                       USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014


     1.3.8. Cadets must plan well in advance when requesting excusals involving the use of
     airline reduced fares and must have an approved SCA before airline tickets can be purchased.
     Excusals are based on mission requirements, not reduced airfare.
     1.3.9. In the event of an urgent request that must be considered between SCA Committee
     meetings, the requesting agency will electronically submit USAFA Form 17 and then contact
     USAFA/CWTSA to request a vote or a committee input. In this situation, USAFA/CWTSA
     will function as a central coordinator and poll all the members of the committee to reach a
     decision/provide an input. USAFA/CWTSA will notify the requester of the decision/input.
     This process will not be conducted for late or routine requests.
     1.3.10. A semester schedule of events for cadet clubs, chapel events, etc., must be submitted
     on USAFA Form 17. OICs and Cadets In Charge (CIC) are responsible for considering all
     academic, military, airmanship, and athletic obligations when constructing their schedules
     and work to minimize conflicts. Refer to the Cadet Wing Strategic Calendar (CWSC) for a
     listing of USAFA events.
1.4. General Guidance and Policies for Excusing Cadets from Duty.
     1.4.1. Any activity to be held outside of SOC-defined ME time blocks (i.e., Commissioning
     Education (CE) testing during an academic class period or intercollegiate practice during
     Military Call to Quarters (MCQ)) requires SCA.
     1.4.2. The Scheduling Committee must be notified of any major events where maximum
     cadet participation is desired as soon as the requirement is identified in order to check for
     conflicting activities.
     1.4.3. An AOC may deny excused status to any cadet in his or her squadron when, in the
     AOC's judgment, circumstances warrant (Exception: intercollegiate athletics absences &
     academic fieldtrips). When an AOC denies excused status to a cadet, the AOC will
     coordinate with the event ME representative, instructor, or OIC.
     1.4.4. Once a request has been coordinated through the Scheduling Committee and other
     MEs have placed stipulations, (i.e., no probations, no cadets with punishments, no fourth-
     class, etc.), the conditions and restrictions are binding. The Scheduling Committee and
     AOCs must adhere to orders of precedence in this document.
        1.4.4.1. Cadets will not submit personal requests to work around disapproved group
        requests.
     1.4.5. Personal requests to attend weddings, graduations, retirements, family reunions, court
     appearances, etc., will be reviewed and inputs to the AOC will be made based on duty missed
     along with the cadet's standing. Additional events not listed above will be evaluated on a
     case-by-case basis.
     1.4.6. Any request for over 3 days will normally not be approved.
     1.4.7. Cadets on any type of probation or deficient in MPA, GPA, or PEA will normally not
     be excused from duty activities.
     1.4.8. Retreats are voluntary, on a personal basis, and are for rest and renewal. All cadets,
     regardless of standing, are normally authorized one retreat pass per semester. Fourth- class
     cadets are allowed to attend the chaplain-sponsored Doolie retreat before the fall midterm
USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014                                                                    9


   progress report. The Chaplain sponsored Doolie and Upper-class retreats will not count
   against the one per semester limit. Religious retreats begin Last Military Duty (LMD) on
   Fridays and end by ACQ on Sundays and can only be scheduled on non-training weekends.
   Cadets must coordinate with AOCs.
   1.4.9. Fourth-class cadets granted Mission Activity status will have limited participation in
   these activities, in accordance with USAFAI 36-3521, Cadet Extracurricular Activities
   Program, before publication of the fall semester mid-term progress report.
   1.4.10. Cadets are authorized one squadron-sponsor visit per academic year. AOCs should
   refer to Cadet Wing Instruction (AFCWI) 36-20, Cadet Squadron Sponsor Wing Program,
   and will ensure cadets participating with squadron-sponsor trips meet minimum
   GPA/MPA/PEA requirements. Initial approval for absence from classes for a squadron-
   sponsor visit will be for a maximum of one and one-half academic days. This may be
   extended due to airlift requirements. Short notice changes to the SCA may need to be
   coordinated through USAFA/CWTSA due to the dynamic nature of airlift (ref paragraph
   1.3.9.).
   1.4.11. The USAFA Grass Roots program will only be conducted during the Fall semester
   and covers a period not to exceed 2 days. SCA requests for Grass Roots trips and/or similar
   events other than in the fall, as administered by United States Air Force Academy Director of
   Admissions (USAFA/RR) will not be considered. A cadet who volunteers to talk at their
   high school is an example of a Grass Roots event. Cadets who volunteer and are approved to
   participate in the Grass Roots program must accomplish the following requirements:
      1.4.11.1. All Scheduling Committee guidelines and conditions must be met, have
      Admissions Liaison Regional Director (USAFA/RRPR) coordination, and AOC
      approval.
      1.4.11.2. Cadets must possess a cumulative or last spring semester GPA of 2.75 or
      higher, a cumulative or last spring semester MPA of 2.75 or higher, and a cumulative or
      last spring semester PEA of 2.50 or higher, and not be on any type of probation.
      1.4.11.3. Grass Roots visits cannot be made in conjunction with any other trip (squadron-
      sponsor, club trip, etc.).
      1.4.11.4. Fourth-class cadets are not allowed to participate in the Grass Roots program.
1.5. Individual SCAs: the following conditions should be met for each type of individual
request and documentation of such should accompany the request to the AOC and Scheduling
Committee.
   1.5.1. WEDDING:        IMMEDIATE FAMILY (Siblings, Parents) with the following
   conditions:
      1.5.1.1. Cadets may typically only miss 1 day of school.
      1.5.1.2. Instructor coordination.
      1.5.1.3. Responsible for graded work prior to and upon return.
      1.5.1.4. Intercollegiate practice recommendation.
      1.5.1.5. Intramurals/Athletic Reconditioning (RECONDO) recommendation.
10                                                    USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014


     1.5.1.6. Airmanship/Aviation coordination.
     1.5.1.7. Make-up Commandant’s Time/Military/Squadron training.
  1.5.2. WEDDING: NON-IMMEDIATE FAMILY (Cadet is Best Man or Maid of Honor)
  with the following conditions:
     1.5.2.1. Cadets may typically only miss 1 day of school.
     1.5.2.2. Instructor approval. An approved SCA is also required.
     1.5.2.3. Responsible for graded work prior to and upon return.
     1.5.2.4. Intercollegiate practice recommendation.
     1.5.2.5. RECONDO recommendation.
     1.5.2.6. Airmanship/Aviation recommendation.
     1.5.2.7. Make-up Commandant’s Time/Military/Squadron training.
  1.5.3. WEDDING: NON-IMMEDIATE FAMILY (Cadet is only attending) with the
  following conditions:
     1.5.3.1. Excusal is LMD Friday, return ACQ Sunday, first-class cadets return No Later
     Than (NLT) taps.
     1.5.3.2. Responsible for graded work prior to and upon return.
     1.5.3.3. Intercollegiate practice recommendation.
     1.5.3.4. Airmanship/Aviation coordination.
     1.5.3.5. Make-up Commandant’s Time/Military/Squadron training.
  1.5.4. ACADEMY DAYS with the following conditions:
     1.5.4.1. Minimum GPA 2.75, MPA 2.75, and PEA 2.50 (Same as Grassroots)
     1.5.4.2. Weekend trips LMD Friday return by taps Sunday, and no more than one per
     year, per cadet. Or LMD Saturday until ACQ Monday (first-class cadets only).
     1.5.4.3. Must have instructor approval. An approved SCA is also required.
     1.5.4.4. Airmanship, intercollegiate contests and practices take precedence.
     1.5.4.5. Intramurals/RECONDO takes precedence.
     1.5.4.6. No probations of any kind.
     1.5.4.7. Responsible for graded work prior to departure and upon return.
     1.5.4.8. Make-up Commandant’s Time/Military/Squadron training.
  1.5.5. LOCAL COURT APPEARANCE with the following conditions:
     1.5.5.1. Excusal begins 90 minutes prior to time of scheduled court appearance.
     1.5.5.2. Return from court appearance As Soon As Possible (ASAP).
     1.5.5.3. Coordinate with instructors for all missed academics, military training,
     airmanship, Aviation, and athletics.
USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014                                                                11


     1.5.5.4. Make-up Commandant’s Time/Military/Squadron training.
  1.5.6. GRE (Graduate Record Examination) with the following conditions:
     1.5.6.1. Cadets will be authorized a maximum time block of 6 hours for this activity.
     1.5.6.2. Instructor approval. An approved SCA is also required.
     1.5.6.3. Responsible for all graded work prior to and upon return.
     1.5.6.4. GRs take precedence.
     1.5.6.5. Physical Fitness Test (PFT) & Aerobic Fitness Test (AFT) precedence.
     1.5.6.6. Intercollegiate contests and practice (in which the cadet is participating) take
     precedence.
     1.5.6.7. Intramurals/RECONDO recommendation.
     1.5.6.8. Airmanship/Aviation precedence.
     1.5.6.9. Squadron and wing military training precedence.
  1.5.7. INDIVIDUAL REQUEST, NON-USAFA SPONSORED:
     1.5.7.1. Prior to SCA submission, AOCs are responsible for determining if the request is
     significant enough to warrant missing duty (once in a lifetime, etc.); AOCs and cadets
     must strive to ensure the least amount of duty possible is missed.
     1.5.7.2. Instructor approval. An approved SCA is also required.
     1.5.7.3. Finals precedence.
     1.5.7.4. GRs and graded work precedence.
     1.5.7.5. Major military training events precedence.
     1.5.7.6. Airmanship precedence.
     1.5.7.7. Intramural recommendation.
     1.5.7.8. RECONDO precedence.
     1.5.7.9. AOCs are responsible for tracking number of days missed for personal SCA
     requests.
  1.5.8. INDIVIDUAL REQUEST: DEATH OF NON-IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER
  (GRANDPARENTS, AUNTS, UNCLES, COUSINS AND CLOSE FRIENDS) with the
  following conditions:
     1.5.8.1. AOCs are responsible for entering the electronic USAFA Form 17 in CAMIS as
     soon as practical, but no later than 24 hours after their cadet’s departure from USAFA.
     Funerals for individuals listed above must go through the Scheduling Committee for
     votes.
     1.5.8.2. Emergency Leave for death or serious illness of immediate family members can
     be referenced in AFCWMAN 36-3501, Cadet Sight Picture. No SCA is required in this
     case.
 12                                                     USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014


      1.5.8.3. Excusal not to exceed 3 duty days. If a blue weekend follows the service, AOCs
      may approve excusal until Sunday.
      1.5.8.4. Coordinate, in person, with AOC, instructors, coaches, intramurals/RECONDO,
      and airmanship.
      1.5.8.5. Responsible for all graded work prior to departure and upon return.
      1.5.8.6. Make-up Commandant’s Time/Military/Squadron training.
      1.5.8.7. Routine medical appointments will be scheduled during free periods and do not
      require an SCA (ref paragraph 2.1.1. and Chapter 2).
1.6. Group SCAs.
   1.6.1. The following guidelines will be used by the Scheduling Committee in determining
   SCA approval for organized group activities:
      1.6.1.1. Departures for all group events and intercollegiate contests will be coordinated
      to minimize missed duty or class.
      1.6.1.2. All Mission Element requirements generally take precedence.
      1.6.1.3. Cadets will typically not miss Mission Element requirements to participate in
      science fairs, readings, sporting events, non-USAFA sponsored Grass Roots, etc.
      1.6.1.4. Scholars Meetings special guest lectures can only be held during evening lecture
      period.
      1.6.1.5. Home Football games will typically take precedence over group events.
      1.6.1.6. Other than those authorized in the published Schedule of Calls, no meetings or
      events.
      1.6.1.7. Minimize performances for dinners, luncheons, etc. by individuals/groups/clubs.
      1.6.1.8. No dining outs, recognition dinners/ceremonies.
      1.6.1.9. No coaching/playing in downtown leagues.
      1.6.1.10. One Academy concert per semester during the week.
   1.6.2. DINING-INS / DINING-OUTS with the following conditions:
      1.6.2.1. Cadet In Charge will schedule with concurrence of AOC, OIC, and coach or
      department head.
      1.6.2.2. Excusal Times: Monday through Thursday will be from LMD until scheduled
      MCQ or ACQ (whichever is earlier). Friday and Saturday will be from LMD until taps.
      1.6.2.3. AOC approval.
      1.6.2.4. Must meet crew rest requirements.
      1.6.2.5. Evening lectures take precedence.
      1.6.2.6. Intramurals/RECONDO and intercollegiate practices and contests take
      precedence.
      1.6.2.7. Must reserve Mitchell Hall 30 days prior to event (if applicable).
USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014                                                               13


     1.6.2.8. Probations must have AOC approval.
  1.6.3. WING/BASE SPONSOR TRIPS with the following conditions:
     1.6.3.1. No probations.
     1.6.3.2. Depart 1200 Thursday, return 1900 Sunday.
     1.6.3.3. Reasonable slips in time due to airlift limitations are authorized (ref paragraph
     1.4.9.).
     1.6.3.4. Instructor approval. An approved SCA is also required.
     1.6.3.5. Responsible for graded work prior to and upon return.
     1.6.3.6. Intercollegiate contests and practice take precedence.
     1.6.3.7. Intramural recommendation.
     1.6.3.8. RECONDO recommendation.
     1.6.3.9. Airmanship/Aviation precedence.
     1.6.3.10. Make-up Commandant’s Time/Military/Squadron training.
  1.6.4. FIELD TRIPS (COURSE REQUIREMENT) with the following conditions:
     1.6.4.1. Must give one lesson of comp time for one-half day trip and two lessons for an
     all day trip. One trip per class per semester.
     1.6.4.2. AOC coordination.
     1.6.4.3. Instructor coordination.
     1.6.4.4. Must be responsible for all graded work prior to and upon return.
     1.6.4.5. Airmanship/Aviation coordination.
     1.6.4.6. Intercollegiate contests or practice, intramurals, and RECONDO take
     precedence.
     1.6.4.7. Make-up Commandant’s Time/Military/Squadron training.
     1.6.4.8. Earliest departure time for field trips is 0700.
     1.6.4.9. Return time is NLT 1600.
  1.6.5. GROUP EVENTS: USAFA SPONSORED AND/OR MISSION ESSENTIAL
  (DOES NOT INCLUDE INTERCOLLEGIATES) with the following conditions:
     1.6.5.1. Major military training events take precedence.
     1.6.5.2. Final exams take precedence.
     1.6.5.3. Conferences and an active participant: No more than three academic days per
     trip.
     1.6.5.4. Airmanship approval.
     1.6.5.5. Intramural recommendation.
     1.6.5.6. Return Sunday by taps.
 14                                                      USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014


       1.6.5.7. Make-up Commandant’s Time/Military/Squadron training.
1.7. Course Absences.
   1.7.1. Cadets participating in the following activities are authorized excusals as indicated:
       1.7.1.1. Football Contingent. During the fall semester, members of the following
       support organizations, as indicated by primary season status or by the appropriate football
       game operations plan as applicable are, with Scheduling Committee approval, authorized
       absences to participate in away football games:
          1.7.1.1.1. Drum and Bugle Corps.
          1.7.1.1.2. Cheerleaders.
          1.7.1.1.3. Statisticians.
          1.7.1.1.4. Falconers.
          1.7.1.1.5. Photographers.
          1.7.1.1.6. Cadet contingent.
          1.7.1.1.7. Cadet Honor Guard.
1.8. Intercollegiate Athletic Authorizations.
   1.8.1. Primary Season: USAFA/AD will provide a list of each sport’s primary season start
   and stop dates to the Commandant’s Director of Training (USAFA/CWT) and Cadet Wing
   Commander (AFCW/CC) NLT the beginning of each academic year. The remaining weeks
   in the academic year for a particular sport are considered non-primary (i.e. practice and
   conditioning/weight training).
   1.8.2. Team Practice. Scheduled practice is conducted in accordance with the AFCW
   Schedule of Calls, Monday through Friday, to include Saturdays (primary or non-primary
   season). During this time, any scheduled National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)
   practice takes precedence over regularly scheduled military training, formations and
   academic events.
   1.8.3. Silver Saturday Training. Teams participating in intercollegiate competitions on
   Silver Saturdays will be excused from military training preparation and from military training
   [Saturday Morning Inspections (SAMIs), Operational Readiness Inspections (ORIs), parades,
   etc.] from 12 hours prior to the competition departure to 12 hours after sign-in from the
   competition. Cadets in their Primary Season who have scheduled practices will be excused
   from military training preparation and from military training [SAMIs, Operations Readiness
   Inspections (ORIs), parades, etc.] from 12 hours before practice until 8 hours after practice.
   Teams not in their primary season are not excused from Silver Training unless they have an
   approved SCA.
   1.8.4. USAFA/AD will submit NCAA competition schedules to the Scheduling Committee
   in accordance with the excusal limits shown in Attachment 3, or as agreed to by
   USAFA/CW, USAFA/AD, and HQ USAFA/DF, and coordinated through the Scheduling
   Committee with the guidelines given below:
USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014                                                                 15


      1.8.4.1. A Season Schedule is submitted on USAFA Form 17 and when approved, no
      further action is necessary except to submit amendments as soon as possible to the
      Scheduling Committee for approval.
      1.8.4.2. Use the following excusal times as a guideline for all varsity sports:
          1.8.4.2.1. Home Contest. Excused seven hours before the contest or as agreed to by
          USAFA/CW, USAFA/AD, and HQ USAFA/DF, and coordinated with the
          Scheduling Committee.
          1.8.4.2.2. Local Area Contest (no overnight stay). Excused in time to arrive at the
          game site at least two hours before contest time.
          1.8.4.2.3. Away Contest (overnight stay). Excused in time to arrive at the contest
          site no earlier than 48 hours before contest time.
   1.8.5. Determine return times by distance and mode of travel. Upon completion of any
   contest, cadets will revert to limitations prescribed in paragraph 1.2.6. of this instruction.
      1.8.5.1. Home contest excusals will terminate no later than two hours after the
      completion of the scheduled event. Cadets will then abide by limitations prescribed in
      paragraph 1.2.6. of this instruction.
      1.8.5.2. Away contest excusals terminate one hour after the coach releases the team.
1.9. Airmanship Authorizations.
   1.9.1. Regularly scheduled airmanship courses and associated crew rest takes precedence
   over non-silver Saturday directed cadet group or squadron military training and formations
   (i.e., Blue Weekends), and weekday regularly scheduled military training, formations, and
   events during DDT and PDT (IAW USAFA SoC). The 306 FTG Scheduling Committee
   Representative will submit SCAs for all other weekend airmanship training IAW para 1.9.2.
   1.9.2. Any additional mission-required airmanship courses or events and associated crew
   rest for which an SCA has been submitted and approved (IAW para 1.2.9), takes precedence
   over Saturday wing-wide military training and formations (i.e., Silver Weekends), non-silver
   Saturday directed cadet group or squadron military training and formations (i.e., Blue
   Weekends), and weekday regularly scheduled military training, formations, and events
   during DDT and PDT (IAW USAFA SoC).
   1.9.3. USAFA/CWTS in coordination with CWTT will notify the 306 FTG of one Silver
   Weekend per semester during which maximum airmanship cadet participation is required.
   Airmanship cadets will not participate in training at the airfield during such Silver Weekends
   except for those cadets with an approved SCA preparing for, or participating in, aerial
   competitions and/or aerial events at USAFA or TDY locations.
   1.9.4. Cadets actively participating in airmanship programs (flyovers, static displays, and
   jump demonstrations ) during football games are excused from the march-on, but must attend
   the game once airmanship operations cease for the day, and be dressed in airmanship
   program approved UOD. Cadets involved in assembly and disassembly of the static displays
   are dismissed upon completion of their duties and are not required to attend the game.
   Cancellation of flyovers, static displays, and/or jump demonstrations does not excuse
   airmanship cadets from march-on and/or the game; those cadets will participate in march-on
16                                               USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014


  (in AFCW UOD) if decision-time permits, and attend the game. Otherwise, they will be
  dressed in airmanship program approved UOD.
  1.9.5. Crew rest for airmanship programs (regularly scheduled and any additional
  airmanship courses and/or events for which an SCA has been approved) takes precedence
  over evening lectures/events, both academic and military.
USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014                                                                   17


                                           Chapter 2

                  NONACADEMIC APPOINTMENTS AND SICK CALL

2.1. Nonacademic Appointments.
   2.1.1. Uniform fittings, routine medical and dental appointments, etc., are mandatory duties
   and must be scheduled during free periods during the academic day. These events do not
   require an SCA. However, cadets cannot miss duty. This type of event must be scheduled
   during non-duty time. Flight and graduation physicals and the fourth-class visual exams may
   be scheduled during academic time with Scheduling Committee approval.
   2.1.2. If a conflict occurs, call the agency with which you have an appointment to reschedule
   the appointment during a free period. Under no circumstances will cadets intentionally make
   appointments that are in conflict with any classes or duties, including Physical Education
   classes.
   2.1.3. If an appointment conflicts with another appointment or duty, cadets follow the order
   of precedence listed in Attachment 2.
2.2. Sick Call.
   2.2.1. Cadets may be excused from classes or other duties because of ill health or injury.
   Physicians, physician's assistants (PAs), nurse practitioners (NPs), or dentists are the
   approval authority for medical excusals to the maximum extent possible.
   2.2.2. For cases in which a cadet cannot get an immediate sick call appointment, squadron
   AOCs or AMTs may approve bed rest until the time of the cadet’s appointment but no longer
   than 24 hours. Either the cadet or the AOC/AMT will notify relevant instructors and coaches
   of the cadet’s absence.
   2.2.3. Cadets who desire medical or dental attention should schedule an appointment or
   report to the Cadet Clinic before the start of a class or duty activity. Cadets placed on bed
   rest by an AOC or AMT will not be excused from duty requirements (e.g., academics,
   military training, intramurals, etc.) until such time that confirmed medical or dental attention
   is accomplished (i.e., Cadet Illness/Injury Report).
 18                                                       USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014


                                            Chapter 3

                    CADET PHYSIOLOGICAL TRAINING PROGRAM

3.1. Who Must Participate.
   3.1.1. Physiological training is mandatory for all fourth-class cadets, or upper-class cadets
   who did not complete it during fourth-class year. It takes precedence over most other
   scheduled activities (ref Attachment 2). It is a requirement for Airmanship, Aviation, and
   Summer Programs participation.
3.2. Responsibilities:
   3.2.1. USAFA/CWTSA (Cadet Scheduling).
       3.2.1.1. Coordinates dates of training with Peterson Air Force Base (PAFB).
       3.2.1.2. Coordinates bus and meal arrangements.
       3.2.1.3. Updates status when notified by PAFB that training is complete.
       3.2.1.4. Schedules squadrons for training dates. Intercollegiate athletes will be
       scheduled during their secondary season so training does not conflict with primary season
       competition and practice.
       3.2.1.5. One week before training date, USAFA/CWTSA notifies all scheduled cadets
       and provides AOCs with courtesy copy of the notification list of cadets who are
       scheduled to attend physiological training the following week.
       3.2.1.6. Briefs cadet selected to act as CIC for the trip.
       3.2.1.7. The day prior to the scheduled training notifies each cadet and his/her AOC with
       a notification of selection to attend training.
       3.2.1.8. Follows up on cadets who do not complete training.
   3.2.2. Cadets:
       3.2.2.1. Follow instructions provided by USAFA/CWTSA.
       3.2.2.2. Follow procedures established for medically clearing the Cadet Clinic.
       3.2.2.3. Will not be rescheduled due to an academic failure. Cadets who fail to show up
       for training will not be re-scheduled until after all other cadets have been scheduled.




                                              MICHELLE D. JOHNSON, Lieutenant General
                                              Superintendent, United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014                                                       19


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel, 23 December 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
USAFAI 36-3540, The US Air Force Academy Board, 2 May 2012
USAFAI 36-3521, Cadet Extracurricular Activities Program, 21 March 2012
AFI 51-602, Boards of Officers, 2 March 1994
AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 23 August 2011
AFI 36-3504, Disenrollment of United States Air Force Academy Cadets, 9 July 2013
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 25 May 2011
Prescribed Forms
USAFA Form 17, Request for USAFA Scheduling Committee Action
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACQ—Academic Call to Quarters
ADCON—Administration Control
AFB—Air Force Base
AFCWI—Air Force Cadet Wing Instruction
AFT—Aerobic Fitness Test
AMT—Academy Military Trainer
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
BCT—Basic Cadet Training
CAMIS—Cadet Administrative Management Information System
CAS—Cadet Accountability System
CCQ—Cadet Charge of Quarters
CE—Commissioning Education
CIC—Cadet In Charge
CWSC—Cadet Wing Strategic Calendar
EI—Extra instruction
GPA—Grade Point Average
 20                                                   USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014


GR—Graded Review
GRE—Graduate Records Evaluation
IC—Intercollegiate
IP—Instructor Pilot
JAG—Judge Advocate General
LMD—Last Military Duty
LOS—Limited On Season
MCQ—Military Call to Quarters
ME—Mission Element
MPA—Military Performance Average
NCAA—National Collegiate Athletic Association
OIC—Officer In Charge
OPCON—Operational Control
PA—Physician's Assistant
PEA—Physical Education Average
PEP—Physical Enhancement Program
PFT—Physical Fitness Test
RECONDO—Athletic Reconditioning
SCA—Scheduling Committee Action
SOC—Schedule of Calls
TACON—Tactical Control

Terms
Academically At Risk Cadets— Certain fourth-class cadets who are determined by
HQ USAFA/DFR as being at risk based upon academic performance prior to admission to
the Academy. Specific criteria for determining an "at risk" fourth—class cadet is found in
the USAF Academy Curriculum Handbook.
Approval— The affected cadet(s) must have specific permission to attend the requested event or
activity from the appropriate AOC/Instructor/OIC/Coach.
Athletically At Risk Cadets— Certain fourth class cadets who are identified by USAFA/AD for
the Physical Enhancement Program (PEP) based upon their Basic Cadet Training (BCT) fitness
performance.
Cadet Duties and Time— Includes academic, scheduled, personal, military, athletic,
airmanship, and activities time, each managed by a Mission Element.
USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014                                                                21


Coordination— The affected cadet(s) must notify, in person, or receive a response from their
AOC/Instructor/OIC/Coach at least two duty days in advance of missing any class, training, or
scheduled activity prior to signing out using an SCA.
Course Absence— An absence from one regularly scheduled meeting of a course that appears
on a cadet's academic schedule. Absence from both periods of a double period course counts as
only one course absence. Absence during an unscheduled academic period is not a course
absence.
Last Military Duty— Point in the duty day after which a cadet has no further duty
requirements.
Pass— Issued by commanders. They are privileges, not rights. They are authorizations for
cadets to exceed limits after LMD.
Precedence— The specified program/activity takes priority and the cadet(s) involved must be
present for that program/activity before engaging in another program/activity.
Mission Activity Status— Those Cadet Club activities which promote and support the Air
Force
Academy mission or benefit the Cadet Wing and other recognized activities or teams.
Scheduling Committee Action— A cadet approval process required for any organized cadet
activity that falls outside of the normal Schedule of Calls. An approved SCA is an authorization
to deviate from the SOC but not from duty. An SCA may also authorized cadets to exceed
limits.
Trip— Activities conducted off the Academy (unless authorized by pass or privilege) regardless
of the time or number of days involved; requires coordination through the USAFA Scheduling
Committee.
 22                                                    USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 2
                                ORDER OF PRECEDENCE

A2.1. Appointment with the, Superintendent, Commandant of Cadets, Dean of the Faculty, and
the Director of Athletics or the Vice acting on their behalf.
A2.2. Courts-martial or appointment with a board of officers convened under AFI 51-602,
Boards of Officers, AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution. Appointment with a
Hearing Officer under AFI 36-3504, Disenrollment of United States Air Force Academy Cadets.
A2.3. Appointment to appear before the Military Review Committee, the Academic Review
Committee, the Physical Education Review Committee, the Summer Training Review
Committee, or an Honor Board (to include Honor Board jury duty).
A2.4. Appointment with Cadet Military Counsel (Defense Counsel or Judge Advocate General
(JAG) for cadets facing judicial or non-judicial punishments.
A2.5. Graded Reviews.
A2.6. Physiological training.
A2.7. Graduation physicals scheduled for the cadet by USAFA/CWTS or by Medical Group
Commander (10 MDG/CC).           Routine appointments or graduation physical follow-up
appointments do not take precedence over class.
A2.8. Varsity and Junior Varsity scheduled intercollegiate competition.
A2.9. USAFA Command Center duty, Group or Squadron CCQ duties. (Note: Squadron
leadership will make every effort to schedule so cadets do not miss class, physical education,
fitness testing, airmanship, or cadet professional military education. No individual cadet may
miss more than two days per semester to perform Squadron CQ duty).
A2.10. Regularly scheduled academic, airmanship, or physical education classes, intramurals,
Intercollegiate Practice, PFT, AFT, Athletic Reconditioning, CE and regularly scheduled wing-
wide military training and formations. Evening lectures will take precedence during all events,
except crew rest for airmanship.
A2.11. Appointment with the squadron AOC, 306th Flying Training Group Commander (306
FTG/CC), 94th Flying Training Squadron Commander (94 FTS/CC), 98th Flying Training
Squadron Commander (98 FTS/CC), 557th Flying Training Squadron Commander (557
FTS/CC), or 306th Operation Support Squadron Commander (306 OSS/CC). Commanders will
make all reasonable efforts to resolve conflicts with classes, PFT, AFT, intramurals, athletic
conditioning, intercollegiate practice, etc.
A2.12. Appointment to take a make-up final exam.
A2.13. Mission Activity practice or participation.    (Cadets in good standing as defined in
applicable AFCWI.)
A2.14. Appointment to take a make-up graded review.
A2.15. Commandant of Cadet directed squadron, group, and wing military training and
formations (nonscheduled).
USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014                                                                   23


A2.16. Other duties (except extracurricular activities) take precedence over the serving of
military re-training unless specifically accepted by the AOC.
A2.17. Routine medical or dental appointments made by the cadet.
A2.18. Attendance at extra instruction (EI) will take precedence over all extracurricular
activities. Procedures for excusal from intramurals, military training, or intercollegiate practice
in order to attend EI are contained in USAFAI 36-3509, Extra Instruction and Hospital
Instruction for Cadets.
A2.19. Appointment with a chaplain.
A2.20. Appointment with academic, military, or physical education instructors or staff
members.
A2.21. Meetings related to cadet training programs (i.e., safety, trip contingency briefings,
escort duty, summer training programs, driver’s training, airmanship, special projects, finance,
etc.). If missed, must be made up as soon as possible.
A2.22. Chapel programs (i.e., choir rehearsals, denominational activities, religious council
meetings, Special Programs in Religious Education (SPIRE) meetings, etc.).
A2.23. Meetings of organized extracurricular activities as listed in USAFAI 36-3521, Cadet
Extracurricular Activities Program.
24                                                                     USAFAI36-3536 4 DECEMBER 2014


                                                   Attachment 3
        AUTHORIZED ACADEMIC EXCUSAL TIME FOR INTERCOLLEGIATE
                             ATHLETICS

ACADEMIC EXCUSAL TIMES (PRIMARY SEASON VARSITY TEAMS)
                  CATEGORY/SPORT                                  AUTHORIZED EXCUSAL

Non-Mountain West Conference (MWC)             Days, plus Conference and NCAA Qualifying/Championship Competition

Boxing (Men)                                   8 days
Fencing (Men and Women)                        12 days, no more than 8 per semester

Gymnastics (Men and Women)                     10 days, no more than 8 per semester

Ice Hockey (Men)                               16 days split over 2 semesters

Lacrosse (Men)                                 10 days, no more than 8 per semester
Rifle (Men and Women)                          10 days, no more than 8 per semester

Soccer (Men)                                   10 days, no more than 8 per semester

Water Polo (Men)                               10 days, no more than 8 per semester

Wrestling (Men)                                10 days, no more than 8 per semester

MWC                                            Days, plus MWC and NCAA Qualifying/Championship Competition

Cross Country (Men and Women)                  8 days
Golf (Men)                                     14 days, no more than 8 per semester

Indoor Track (Men and Women)                   8 days

Outdoor Track (Men and Women)                  8 days

Soccer (Women)                                 10 days, no more than 8 per semester

Swimming (Men and Women)                       10 days, no more than 8 per semester

Tennis (Men and Women)                         14 days, no more than 8 per semester

MWC (SCHEDULED)                                Days, plus MWC and NCAA Championship/Bowl Competition
Basketball (Men and Women)                     14 days split over 2 semesters
Baseball (Men)                                 14 days, no more than 12 per semester

Football (Men)                                 10 days

Volleyball (Women)                             12 days, no more than 10 per semester
Cheerleading                                   12 days split over 2 semesters

Non-Varsity Teams                              Days
Varsity Reserve Football Team                  4
Junior Varsity Teams                           3

Note: Athletes competing in contests are excused from academic classes not to exceed the total number of days as
shown. For example, a Primary Season Varsity Team is authorized to miss up to ten total days a year or 60 total
class periods (six periods a day), not to include conference and NCAA qualifying and championship competition.
Authorization to exceed the total number of days must be approved by the USAFA Scheduling Committee. In
individual sports, if a coach decides to count the team excusal by monitoring each athlete’s actual periods or days
missed, the coach is responsible to ensure no athlete exceeds the total number of days authorized.
