BY ORDER OF THE                                              HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                               ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 44-101

                                                                              22 FEBRUARY 2012

                                                                                            Medical

                                                              CADET HEALTHY EATING AND
                                                                     WELLNESS PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 AMDS/SGPF                                                       Certified by: 10 AMDS/CC
                                                                                (Col Karen Heupel)
                                                                                          Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 44-1, Medical Operations. This
instruction applies to all United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) personnel. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)       Records       Disposition       Schedule      (RDS)       located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

1. INTRODUCTION:
   1.1. Eating disorders and unhealthy eating behaviors can lead to significant physical and
   psychological complications and even death (see Attachment 2 for detailed Background).
   Nutritional and eating issues represent a spectrum ranging from healthy to unhealthy and the
   normal range for many cadets is neither optimally healthy nor pathological. Thus, the
   majority of cadets are an appropriate target for nutrition education and eating disorder
   awareness information. Prevention and early intervention can prevent cadets from a
   diagnosis of an eating disorder and can also improve their eating behaviors before the
   behaviors impact their daily activities, academics, physical fitness, and/or military training.
   A cadet who cannot complete his or her training at USAFA or who later develops an eating
   disorder is a tremendous loss to the Air Force.
2                                                        USAFAI44-101 22 FEBRUARY 2012


    1.2. The scope of the Cadet Healthy Eating and Wellness (CHEW) program includes
    preventing the development of eating or nutritional issues (primary prevention), identifying
    and providing interventions for at-risk cadets (secondary prevention), and helping those
    cadets who have developed significantly disordered eating (tertiary prevention). This
    instruction will detail the objectives of the CHEW program, the responsibilities of the
    primary team members, and the processes to achieve the objectives.
2. OBJECTIVES:
    2.1. Educate cadets and USAFA staff about healthy eating, nutritional guidelines, warning
    signs of an eating disorder, safe ways to achieve and maintain a healthy weight, and
    resources to access help and/or treatment for these issues.
    2.2. Implement screening and identification guidelines for providers, Air Officers
    Commanding (AOCs)/Academy Military Trainers (AMTs), Athletic Department
    (USAFA/AD), and other USAFA staff and ensure these individuals understand the
    procedures and agencies to contact when dealing with cadet nutrition and eating problems.
    2.3. Standardize evaluation and treatment procedures for cadets identified with at-risk eating
    behaviors.
    2.4. Provide a multidisciplinary forum for ongoing support and treatment.
    2.5. Provide guidelines for determining when a Medical Evaluation Board (MEB) is
    necessary.
3. RESPONSIBILITIES:
    3.1. The members of the team include, but are not limited to:
       3.1.1. Dietitian
       3.1.2. Provider from the Cadet Clinic (preferably adolescent medicine specialist,
       women’s health specialist and/or sports medicine specialist)
       3.1.3. Provider from the Peak Performance Center (PPC)
       3.1.4. Mental Health (MH) provider
       3.1.5. Preventive Medicine physician
       3.1.6. Representative from the Athletic Department (Athletic Trainer, administrator, or
       PE staff)
       3.1.7. Representative from the Preparatory School
    3.2. Consultants to the team may include a cadet representative, a Chaplain, a Dental Clinic
    representative, a representative from Dean of Faculty (USAFA/DF) and others as indicated
    (e.g., AOC, representatives from Health and Wellness Center (HAWC), Integrated Delivery
    Service (IDS), etc.). For the purpose of this instruction, only the responsibilities of the
    primary members will be defined.
    3.3. All members will:
       3.3.1. Educate cadets and USAFA staff about healthy eating, nutritional guidelines,
       warning signs of an eating disorder, safe ways to achieve and maintain a healthy weight,
       and resources to access help and/or treatment for these issues.
USAFAI44-101 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                   3


     3.3.2. Assist the team in the development and provision of screening and identification
     guidelines for providers, AOC/AMTs, USAFA faculty, and Cadet Wing leadership.
     3.3.3. Know and/or follow standardized identification, evaluation, and treatment
     procedures based on the role of the member as outlined in paragraphs 3.4. through 3.9.
     for cadets identified with at-risk eating behaviors.
     3.3.4. Contribute to a multidisciplinary forum for evaluation and treatment (only
     credentialed providers will provide evaluation and treatment recommendations).
     3.3.5. Assist the team in the determination of necessity for Medical Evaluation Board
     (MEB).
  3.4. In addition to roles defined in paragraph 3.3., the Dietitian will:
     3.4.1. Assist with the normalization of the client’s weight and eating behavior.
         3.4.1.1. Recognize the client’s symptoms and the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
         of Mental Disorders, Version IV (DSM-IV) criteria for diagnosing an eating disorder.
         3.4.1.2. Evaluate the client’s current food intake patterns.
         3.4.1.3. Estimate and determine the client’s appropriate weight goal.
         3.4.1.4. Support the client as he/she tries new eating behavior.
         3.4.1.5. Help the client normalize his/her eating pattern.
         3.4.1.6. Assist the client in understanding the connection between emotions and
         behaviors.
         3.4.1.7. Teach the client how to maintain a healthy body weight.
         3.4.1.8. Work together with other professionals providing treatment to the client.
     3.4.2. Assess the client’s present nutritional status, lifestyle and health risk status,
     biochemical and anthropometric values, psychosocial, cultural, ethnic, literacy, and
     developmental skills, physical limitations, and economic factors, family dynamic, and
     motivation and readiness to change.
  3.5. In addition to roles defined in paragraph 3.3., the Cadet Clinic Provider will:
     3.5.1. Screen for eating disorders through psychosocial review, screening tools, and
     dietary review at medical appointments.
     3.5.2. Assist colleagues in the identification of at-risk patients, either through counsel or
     referral.
     3.5.3. Evaluate the medical stability of identified patients.
     3.5.4. Provide periodic and routine re-evaluation of identified patients as part of routine
     health maintenance. The provider will work closely with other members of the team to
     identify at-risk patients for more closely monitored medical evaluation. The provider, in
     conjunction with the team as indicated, will evaluate if the cadet is safe to participate in
     training, sports, flying activities, or other activities that may put the cadet or others in
     jeopardy.
     3.5.5. Provide medications as indicated, e.g. for co-morbid conditions.
4                                                         USAFAI44-101 22 FEBRUARY 2012


       3.5.6. Refer to inpatient hospitalization if at-risks patients are determined to be medically
       unstable.
       3.5.7. Assist in placing appropriate patient candidates in outpatient programs.
       3.5.8. Refer all evaluated patients to dietitian and counseling by PPC or MH provider.
    3.6. In addition to roles defined in paragraph 3.3., the PPC and MH providers will:
       3.6.1. Screen for eating disorders through screening tools and dietary review.
       3.6.2. Assist colleagues in the identification of at-risk patients, either through counsel or
       referral.
       3.6.3. Conduct treatment for individuals who are referred for or who present with
       unhealthy eating patterns or eating disorders and collaborate with nutritionist, cadet
       medical clinic, dentist, AOC, and others as appropriate.
       3.6.4. Offer cognitive behavioral therapy, if indicated.
       3.6.5. Provide periodic and routine re-evaluation. The provider will work closely with
       other members of the team to identify at-risk patients for more closely monitored medical
       evaluation.
       3.6.6. Assist in placing appropriate patient candidates in outpatient programs.
       3.6.7. Refer all at-risk patients or cadets diagnosed with eating disorders to the dietician
       and a medical provider for evaluation.
    3.7. In addition to roles defined in paragraph 3.3., the Preventive Medicine physician will:
       3.7.1. Develop a mechanism to track population-based trends of at-risk eating behaviors
       and eating disorders and report on such metrics at team meetings and at the Trainee
       Health Working Group (THWG).
       3.7.2. Provide evidence-based recommendations to the team regarding primary,
       secondary, and tertiary prevention of disordered eating and exercise behaviors and poor
       nutrition.
       3.7.3. Keep minutes at team meetings and report activities of the team to the Trainee
       Health Working Group on a periodic basis.
    3.8. In addition to roles defined in paragraph 3.3., the Athletic Department representative
    will:
       3.8.1. Provide the perspective of coaching staff, athletic trainers, and athletes and serve
       as a liaison with the Athletic Department regarding healthy eating and exercise behaviors.
       3.8.2. Be involved in evaluation and treatment only if the cadet is an athlete and the
       representative has been given permission.
    3.9. In addition to roles defined in paragraph 3.3., the Preparatory School representative will:
       3.9.1. Incorporate the education and identification procedures into the Preparatory
       School environment.
USAFAI44-101 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                 5


     3.9.2. Provide the cadet candidates and Preparatory School leadership, instructors,
     coaching staff, athletic trainers, and other staff with current information on where cadet
     candidates with concerns about eating or exercise behaviors can seek care.
     3.9.3. Serve as a liaison for the Preparatory School for issues related to eating and
     exercise behaviors.
4. PROCEDURES TO ACHIEVE OBJECTIVES OF PROGRAM.
  4.1. Objective 1. Educate cadets and USAFA staff about healthy eating, nutritional
  guidelines, warning signs of an eating disorder, safe ways to achieve and maintain a
  healthy weight, and resources to access help and/or treatment for these issues.
     4.1.1. Provide prevention/education to the general cadet population during Nutrition
     Awareness Month and Eating Disorders Awareness Week as well as other arranged
     times.
     4.1.2. Partner with Athletic Department to educate cadets and staff involved on
     intercollegiate teams on eating for peak performance. One venue for cadet athlete
     education is the Student Athlete Advisory Committee (SAAC).
     4.1.3. Cadet involvement, such as through the PEER (Personal Ethics and Education
     Representative) program, will be used to identify ways to reach the cadets and most
     effectively communicate information. The PEER Educators will also be asked to assist in
     the dissemination of information.
     4.1.4. Ongoing venues for dissemination information include USAFA website, parents’
     newsletter, posters throughout campus, and through briefings to squadrons.
  4.2. Objective 2. Implement screening and identification guidelines for providers,
  AOC/AMTs, athletic department (USAFA/AD) and other USAFA staff and ensure
  these individuals understand the procedures and agencies to contact when dealing with
  cadet nutrition and eating problems.
     4.2.1. The team will provide briefings, updates, and education to members of the
     USAFA community in forums such as Grand Rounds and Prostaff (for 10 MDG), In-
     service Days (for USAFA/AD and Human Performance Lab), and briefings to Cadet
     Wing leadership including AOCs and AMTs, in order to provide education about
     screening and identification guidelines and the process at USAFA as outlined in this
     instruction.
     4.2.2. Membership on this team will be maintained and current names and contact
     numbers of Team members will be provided to the above groups in order that at-risk
     cadets can be referred in a timely manner.
  4.3. Objective 3. Standardize evaluation and treatment procedures for those cadets
  identified with at-risk eating behaviors.
     4.3.1. Cadets identified by any provider as being at-risk for unhealthy eating behaviors
     will be referred to a dietitian, cadet clinic provider, and either a PPC or MH provider. If
     the cadet has already been evaluated by a MH provider, an evaluation in the PPC is not
     required. However, if a cadet is being seen by a provider in the PPC and the provider
6                                                       USAFAI44-101 22 FEBRUARY 2012


       feels that the cadet meets diagnostic criteria for an eating disorder, referral to a MH or
       medical provider may occur.
       4.3.2. All members from team will conduct treatment for individuals who are referred for
       or who present with unhealthy eating patterns, at-risk behaviors or eating disorders.
       Provider-specific responsibilities are outlined in paragraph 3. Responsibilities.
       4.3.3. Providers will collaborate with all members of team as appropriate.
    4.4. Objective 4. Provide a multidisciplinary forum for ongoing support and
    treatment.
       4.4.1. The team will meet at least monthly, and ideally twice a month. At each meeting,
       agenda items related to the Objectives as outlined here will be discussed and action items
       identified and assigned to team members.
       4.4.2. Case discussion will also be included at each meeting. Once a cadet has been
       identified by a team member as being at-risk or diagnosed with an eating disorder, he or
       she may be included in case discussion by the privileged providers on the team.
       Individual cadets will not be discussed when non-privileged providers (e.g.
       representatives from USAFA/AD, HAWC, etc.) are present. The team will also identify
       and request consultation from outside agencies or individuals as indicated to ensure that
       the multidisciplinary forum best meets the needs of the CHEW Program.
       4.4.3. Members of team are expected to attend team meetings regularly.
       4.4.4. The team will collaborate with both on and off base agencies that offer resources
       to cadets related to nutrition and/or eating disorders.
       4.4.5. The Preventive Medicine physician will collect and analyze trends in prevalence
       of at-risk cadets and those diagnosed with eating disorders. The minutes of the Team
       meetings will be summarized and reported at least quarterly to the Trainee Health
       Working Group (THWG).
    4.5. Objective 5. Outline guidelines for when a Medical Evaluation Board (MEB) is
    necessary.
       4.5.1. Once a cadet has been referred to a member of the team for at- risk behavior, the
       team must ensure that he or she has a complete evaluation by the dietitian, cadet clinic
       provider, and MH provider.
       4.5.2. If the cadet is given a diagnosis of an eating disorder by any member of the team
       or another privileged provider, the team will review the cadet’s medical records.
       4.5.3. Disordered eating is a spectrum of behaviors and disorders that may or may not fit
       criteria defined in AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards. IAW AFI 48-123,
       conditions that warrant an MEB include:
          4.5.3.1. Conditions that are expected to have persistent duty impairment (more than 1
          year despite treatment).
          4.5.3.2. Conditions associated with recurrent duty impairment (2 or more episodes of
          impairment in 12 months).
USAFAI44-101 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                             7


        4.5.3.3. Conditions which require continuing psychiatric support (e.g. weekly
        psychotherapy in order to function) beyond one year.
        4.5.3.4. Conditions requiring use of lithium, anticonvulsants, or antipsychotics for
        mood stabilization.
     4.5.4. The team will take conditions listed in paragraph 4.5.3. into consideration when
     determining whether a cadet needs to be referred for MEB. An MEB for an eating
     disorder does not automatically result in disenrollment.




                                         TIMOTHY D. BALLARD, COL, USAF, MC, CFS
                                         Commander, 10th Medical Group
 8                                                    USAFAI44-101 22 FEBRUARY 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 48-123, Medical Examinations and Standards, 24 September 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Athletic Department
AF—Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AMT—Academy Military Training Noncommissioned Officer
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
CHEW—Cadet Healthy Eating and Wellness
DF—Dean of Faculty
DoD—Department of Defense
DSM IV—Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Version IV
ED—NOS—Eating Disorder-Not Otherwise Specified
HAWC—Health and Wellness Center
IDS—Integrated Delivery Service
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PEER—Personal Ethics and Education Representative
PPC—Peak Performance Center
MHC—Mental Health Clinic
MEB—Medical Evaluation Board
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAAC—Student Athlete Advisory Council
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI44-101 22 FEBRUARY 2012                                                                      9


                                          Attachment 2
                        BACKGROUND ON DISORDERED EATING

A2.1. Eating disorders and unhealthy eating behaviors can lead to significant physical and
psychological complications and even death. The three major categories of eating disorders are
anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and eating disorders not otherwise specified (ED-NOS). In
addition, there are men and women who engage in unhealthy eating or exercise behaviors who
do not meet diagnostic criteria for any of the above categories, but whose current actions can
have serious consequences. This includes men and women with “energy imbalance,” i.e. in
whom energy intake (in the form of calories) does not match the energy expenditure (amount of
calories burned in exercise, training, daily life). This may be a particular issue among athletes
and could result in diminished bone density, fractures or other injuries, and long-term effects on
bone and reproductive function (in women).
A2.2. In the general population, estimates for the categories of eating disorders are 0.9-1% for
anorexia, 1.5-2.5% for bulimia, and 15% for ED-NOS (1,2). Estimates on college campuses
have generally been higher in all three categories. The prevalence of anorexia nervosa and
bulimia nervosa in female American university students is estimated to be up to 4.2% and 19%,
respectively (3). More alarmingly, one study demonstrated that 61% of female American
university students report behaviors that do not meet diagnostic criteria, but include chronic
dieting, binge/purging, and subclinical bulimia nervosa (4). In another study, 21% of male
university students displayed eating attitudes and behaviors characteristic of disordered eating
(5). Anorexia, in particular, is concerning as it has the highest death rate of any mental illness,
up to 20%.
A2.3. Because the population at USAFA (including the Preparatory school) is similar in age to
that at other college campuses and due to the added pressures, including the need to meet fitness
standards and the military curriculum, it is likely that unhealthy eating and exercise behaviors are
also present among USAFA cadets. The Health Behaviors Inventory was administered to 490
cadets in 2011 and demonstrated that, on average, most female cadets wanted to be 8.5 pounds
lighter than their current weight, even though the average weight of female cadets was in the
healthy range. Of female cadets in this study, 19.4% stated they have engaged in some type of
disordered eating, although very few admitted to having been diagnosed with an eating disorder.
In particular, as all cadets are considered student athletes and are often physically active, “energy
imbalance” may be an issue that many cadets face at some point during the course of their
USAFA career. There is no current estimate of the prevalence of this issue among cadets, but
injuries such as stress fractures can be a sign of “energy imbalance” (known as “female athlete
triad” in women). The Health Behaviors Inventory found that 10% of female cadets and 5% of
male cadets control weight by skipping meals and 24% of female cadets and 10% of male cadets
have fasted for 1 or more days in order to lose weight. Restricting calorie intake in this way can
potentially result in injuries or significant medical problems.
A2.4. One study among Active Duty military women supports the notion that serving in the
military may be associated with a higher prevalence of eating disorders. In this study, the overall
prevalence was 1.1% for anorexia, 8.1% for bulimia, and 62.8% for ED-NOS among all service
women (6). As we are preparing cadets to be healthy officers and effective leaders, it is critical
that we identify unhealthy eating and exercise behaviors now in order to prevent significant
 10                                                 USAFAI44-101 22 FEBRUARY 2012


medical problems or death in the future. Screening tools such as the EAT-26 and other
published tools can help providers identify the scope of a cadet’s abnormal behaviors (7).
