BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 32-2001

                                                                                   9 APRIL 2014

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                FIRE PREVENTION PRACTICES AND FIRE
                                                PROTECTION ENGINEERING STANDARDS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 CES/CEF                                                         Certified by: 10 CES/CC
                                                                        (Lt Col Patrick J. Carley)
Supersedes:    USAFAI32-2001,                                                             Pages: 6
               2 February 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-20, Fire Emergency Services.
The direction contained establishes and assigns fire prevention and fire protection engineering
standards, policies, procedures, and responsibilities on the United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA). It provides guidance to assist commanders in protecting property and personnel under
their control. This instruction applies to all personnel and activities occupying or utilizing
property on USAFA and off-base sites, including tenant units, vendors, concessionaires,
contractors, and their employees. Should any existing contract requirement or statement of work
conflict with guidance contained in this instruction, a request to modify that provision to comply
with this instruction shall be forwarded to the Contracting Officer for inclusion in the next
modification accomplished on the contract. This publication does apply to the US Air Force
Reserve, Air National Guard, and Civil Air Patrol. Refer recommended changes and conflicts
between this and other publications to 10 CES/CEF, 6202 Pine Drive Suite 100 USAF Academy,
Colorado 80840, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                USAFAI32-2001 9 APRIL 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes include
updating facility manager responsibilities and consolidating requirements.
1. Objective. The objective of the fire prevention program is to reduce or eliminate the
potential for fires, thereby reducing loss of life, injury and property damage if a fire occurs.
Achievement of this objective requires commander’s support at all levels and the active
participation of all personnel. Sound fire prevention practices help provide a safe environment
for our personnel to live and work.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. 10TH AIR BASE WING COMMANDER (10 abw/CC): The 10 ABW/CC exercises
     primary responsibility through the Base Civil Engineer. The 10 ABW/CC will be notified
     when a hazard creating an imminently dangerous situation cannot be resolved by concerned
     parties to determine if it should be eliminated, an operation should be discontinued, or
     implementation of interim controls will be necessary to reduce the risk posed by the
     situation.
     2.2. UNIT COMMANDERS: Unit Commanders/Directors are responsible for overall fire
     safety within their unit. Unit Commanders/Directors will:
        2.2.1. Develop a fire safety program based on the identified risk in their facilities and
        operations. Formal fire inspections and risk analyzes are provided by the Fire Prevention
        Office (10 CES/CEF).
        2.2.2. Ensure all facility managers receive training on procedures and processes to
        complete their duties.
        2.2.3. Initiate appropriate administrative or disciplinary action against personnel who
        willfully damage or tamper with fire protection systems and devices, initiate false reports,
        or fail to comply with the fire prevention policies or practices through misconduct,
        disregard for fire directives, or negligence.
     2.3. EMPLOYEE SUPERVISORS: Employee supervisors at all levels are responsible for
     fire safety in their work areas and operations. Training requirements are outlined in Air
     Force Instruction 91-203, Chapter 6, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety
     Instruction. Fire Prevention personnel are available to assist in developing and customizing
     this training. Training is required annually.
     2.4. FACILITY MANAGERS: Each facility manager is responsible to the unit commander
     for the condition of all facilities under their authority. Facility managers or alternates will:
        2.4.1. Develop fire prevention procedures appropriate for their facility. Fire Prevention
        personnel are available to assist.
        2.4.2. Conduct periodic fire prevention inspections of assigned facilities and initiate
        corrective action on fire hazards or deficiencies found during the inspection.
        2.4.3. Ensure all fire extinguishers, exit lights, and emergency lights are inspected on a
        monthly basis to ensure proper operating condition. Emergency lights and exit lights
USAFAI32-2001 9 APRIL 2014                                                                         3


      shall be tested for no less than 30 seconds once a month. Discrepancies involving fire
      extinguishers should be referred to the fire extinguisher maintenance section at 333-2902.
      2.4.4. Ensure exit doors in facilities are unobstructed and unlocked at all times while the
      facility is occupied. Draperies, decorations, or placards must not block exit signs or
      doors.
      2.4.5. Ensure exits, entryways, fire hydrants and fire department connections are kept
      free of snow and ice accumulation.
      2.4.6. Ensure no locks, padlocks, hasp, bars, chains, or other devices are installed on any
      door used to exit an area or facility.
      2.4.7. Ensure fire rated doors are kept closed at all times, with the exception of those
      equipped with magnetic releases. Doorstops or other non-approved devices will not be
      installed on fire rated doors.
      2.4.8. Ensure fire evacuation drills are conducted at least annually. Occupancies that
      require more frequent drills are listed in Table 2.1.

Table 2.1. Fire Evacuation and Relocation Drill Schedules.
 Occupancy                        Frequency                        Notes
 Educational                      Monthly while in session         May be deferred due to
                                                                   severe or inclement weather
 Health Care                      Quarterly for each shift         To familiarize facility
                                                                   personnel only – evacuation
                                                                   not required
 Day Care Centers                 Monthly while in session         May be deferred due to
                                                                   severe or inclement weather
                                                                   – not less than four shall be
                                                                   conducted before drills are
                                                                   deferred


3. Fire and Emergency Reporting Methods and Procedures:
   3.1. EMERGENCY REPORTING: When a fire is discovered, the first and primary
   objective is to implement the emergency action plan for the facility or area. This plan should
   include evacuation procedures, instruction on activating the fire alarm system and directions
   to call 911. All fires and emergency incidents must be reported by calling 911, even if the
   fire has been extinguished. If a fire alarm is activated in a building, occupants should still
   call 911 after evacuating the facility to provide additional information. When reporting an
   emergency, include as much information as possible, including the facility address or
   building number, nature of the emergency, your name and telephone number.
   3.2. FALSE ALARMS: If the alarm activation is known to be an accident, please call 911
   immediately to cancel the emergency response.
 4                                                               USAFAI32-2001 9 APRIL 2014


4. General Fire Prevention Practices:
     4.1. EXTENSION CORDS: Extension cords shall not be used as a substitute for permanent
     wiring. They cannot be attached to structures, run through doors, doorways, windows, holes
     in walls, ceilings, under carpet, etc. Extension cords will be in serviceable condition and
     approved by a recognized testing agency or laboratory. Only three wire cords may be used;
     frayed, deteriorated, spliced, or otherwise degraded cords will not be used. Multi-outlet
     assemblies must have a built-in surge protector. The use of surge protectors and/or extension
     cords, in combination, is prohibited.
     4.2. MECHANICAL ROOMS: Mechanical rooms, including communication rooms, shall
     not be used to store items other than those necessary for the function of installed equipment.
     4.3. COMBUSTIBLE AND FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS: All combustible or flammable
     liquids will be stored in approved flammable storage cabinets or lockers unless the facility is
     specifically designed for flammable liquids storage.
     4.4. WELDING, CUTTING, AND BRAZING. Welding, cutting, or brazing will not be
     accomplished until a valid AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit, has been issued by the
     Fire Department. Permits are not required for authorized welding shops.
     4.5. OPEN FLAME OR FIRES: No open fires, other than campfires in an approved area,
     are permitted unless approved by the Fire Department. The use of charcoal or propane fueled
     BBQ grills, chimeneas or fire pits are allowed on the Academy and during all events hosted
     at the Falcon Football Stadium parking lots. These cooking and/or warming fires must be
     attended while in use. Unattended fires will be extinguished.
     4.6. SPACE HEATERS: Only Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listed space heaters equipped
     with automatic shut-off devices that will shut off the heater if it tips over are authorized.
     There must be at least 36 inches of clearance from combustibles such as drapes, trashcans, or
     furniture. Space heaters must be plugged directly into a wall receptacle; they may not be
     plugged into multiple outlet strips or an extension cord.
     4.7. GENERAL STORAGE PRACTICES: Storage of items must provide a minimum of 18
     inches clearance between ceilings, and any fire detection devices or appliances, and fire
     sprinkler heads. Users must maintain a minimum of 3 feet clearance in front of and to the
     sides of electrical circuit panels.
     4.8. CANDLES AND OTHER TYPES OF FLAME-PRODUCING DEVICES: The use of
     open-flame devices such as candles, liquid or solid fuel burners, incense, etc., must be
     approved by the Fire Chief.
     4.9. FIREWORKS: Personal fireworks are prohibited on the Air Force Academy.
     4.10. COOKING IN AIR FORCE FACILITIES: Cooking is prohibited in all buildings
     except those areas specifically designated for kitchen use. Cooking appliances will not be
     left unattended when in use. Lids should be readily available for the control of grease fires
     when cooking. Do not attempt to remove a burning pan from the stove. Place a lid on the
     pan; turn off the heat, then call 911. Turkey fryers or similar open flame cooking appliances
     shall not be operated indoors, on combustible decking, or within 25 feet of any structure. A
     fire extinguisher must be present when using a turkey fryer or similar open flame cooking
     appliance.
USAFAI32-2001 9 APRIL 2014                                                                       5


5. Decorations and Arrangements for Special Events and Gatherings:
   5.1. NOTIFICATION OF SPECIAL EVENTS: The Fire Prevention office (333-2051) must
   be notified prior to all special events held in base facilities where the occupant load may be
   exceeded.
   5.2. DECORATIONS AND FURNISHINGS: Decorations, curtains, drapes, etc., must not
   obstruct installed fire protection devices, hang from installed fire protection devices, block
   egress routes or exits, or interfere with the normal function of exits.
      5.2.1. Holiday tree lighting and wiring must bear the UL seal of approval and be in good
      condition. Holiday lighting should not be left plugged in when the facility is unoccupied.
      Outdoor lighting and extension cords used for that purpose will be weatherproof and will
      be specifically designed for use outdoors.
      5.2.2. Live holiday trees are prohibited in the following types of occupancies:
      dormitories, public assembly, hospitals, and schools. In other occupancies, trees shall not
      obstruct egress to exits and must be kept away from sources of heat.
   5.3. OCCUPANT LOAD: The fire prevention office will provide maximum occupant load
   information for any facility or area, upon request. It is the facility manager’s responsibility
   to ensure the posted occupant load is not exceeded. An exception to the occupant load can be
   approved by the Fire Chief in accordance with the Life Safety Code.
6. COMMERCIAL KITCHENS:
   6.1. Food preparation or cooking that emits grease-laden vapors shall be protected with a
   hood and duct system that is equipped with an installed fire-suppression system. The duct
   system will vent to the outside of the facility.
   6.2. Openings in hoods leading to the duct will be protected with filters that fit tightly.
   Cooking shall not be accomplished when these filters are not in place, or if the filters are not
   properly secured.
   6.3. Kitchen ranges, hoods, filters, and surrounding area below the filters shall be cleaned at
   least daily or more often as needed by the employees.
   6.4. Cooking appliances must be completely aligned under hoods at all times while in
   operation.
   6.5. Thermostats on deep fat fryers will be tested at least annually. Tags or other appropriate
   documentation indicating the test results shall be maintained for each appliance tested.




                                             RICHARD W. FOGG, Col, USAF
                                             Commander, 10th Air Base Wing
 6                                                          USAFAI32-2001 9 APRIL 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 32-20, Fire Emergency Services, 21 June 2012
AFI 91-203, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Instruction, 15 June 2012
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
NFPA Codes and Standards
Adopted Forms
AF Form 592, USAF Hot Work Permit
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
