BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
US AIR FORCES IN EUROPE (USAFE)                                  INSTRUCTION 36-701

                                                                                3 MARCH 2011

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                     EMPLOYMENT OF LOCAL NATIONAL
                                                     EMPLOYEES AT OTHER THAN THEIR
                                                         REGULAR PLACE OF WORK OR
                                                                DOMICILE (GERMANY)

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFE/A1KC                                                Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1K
Supersedes: USAFEI 36-701, 11 August                                       (Mr. Robert C. Maier)
            1997                                                                       Pages: 19


This instruction implements AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations. It
contains implementing provisions on Attachment R of the Collective Tariff Agreement of 16
Dec 1966 for the Employees of the Sending States Forces in the Federal Republic of Germany
(CTA II), as well as out-of-tariff provisions regarding benefits and compensation of employees
for expenses that arise in connection with employment outside the regular place of work or
domicile, or duty trips performed at the permanent duty station. This instr uction also contains
policy and procedures with regard to out-of-tariff benefits in case of appointment or transfer of
employees from outside of the commuting area of the new permanent duty station. It applies to
all employees of the US Forces in the Federal Republic of Germany administered by a US Air
Force Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF) under the terms of the CTA II. It does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in the publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command.
 2                                                             USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This docume nt is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
reflects all legal, tariff, and administrative changes since the last revision in 1997. The
attachments were revised comprehensively and the former attachments 8 (Allowances on
Transfer or Recruitment from Outside the Commuting Area), 9 (Reimbursement of Moving
Expenses), and 12 (Commuters Allowance) are merged into the new Attachment 7 (Payments in
Cases of Transfers or Appointments from Outside the Commuting Area). The previous
attachments 10 (Special Provisions for Civilian Service Unit Personnel), 11 (Reimbursement of
Employment Interview Travel Expenses), and 13 (Maintenance Subsidy) were rescinded entirely.


1. General/Content. Attachment R, CTA II outlines the basic tariff provisions for
reimbursement of expenses incurred while performing official duty travel, duty trip, or
employment outside the permanent duty location. Imple menting instructions on Attachment R
as well as out-of-tariff provisions in connection with appointment of employees from outside the
commuting area or employment outside the regular place of work or domicile are contained in
the appendices as listed below:
     1.1. Attachme nt 1 contains general provisions and instructions governing temporary duty
     (TDY) travel and implements CTA II, AttachmentR, Part I, General Provisions.
     1.2. Attachme nt 2 implements CTA II, AttachmentR, Part II, Reimbursement of
     Transportation Costs.
     1.3. Attachme nt 3 implements CTA II, AttachmentR, Parts III and IV, Travel Allowance
     for Several- Day Duty Travel and Day Allowance for One-Day Duty Travel.
     1.4. Attachme nt 4 regulates the payment for duty travel outside Germany (CTA II,
     AttachmentR, Part V).
     1.5. Attachme nt 5 regulates the reimbursement of cost of return transportation of remains of
     deceased employees.
     1.6. Attachme nt 6 implements CTA II, AttachmentR, Part VI on official duty trips not
     qualifying as duty travel in the meaning of CTA II, AttachmentR, Part I.1a.
     1.7. Attachme nt 7 contains provisions for payments associated with an employee’s transfer
     or recruitment from outside the commuting area.
2. Forms Prescribed:
     2.1. USAFE Form 264, Temporary Duty Back for Non-US Citizen Personnel (Germany);
     2.2. USAFE Form 832, Travel Expense Voucher (Non-US, Germany).
USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011                                                             3


3. Forms Adopted:
   3.1. DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DOD Personnel.




                                        CARLA H. GAMMON, Colonel, USAF
                                        Director, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
 4                                                              USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011


                                          Attachme nt 1
                                   GENERAL PROVISIONS

The implementation provisions in this attachment refer to CTA II, AttachmentR, Part I.
A1.1. Definition of duty travel and travel orders (Paragraph I-1.a):
The conditions of duty travel are met if an employee is directed to temporarily perform official
business or to participate in training or education measures outside his or her permanent duty
location (municipality) at distances of 15 km or more from the place of duty.
     A1.1.1. The place of duty is the location where the employee regularly reports for work
     (shop, office, or suchlike). Large area installations which extend over several municipalities
     are considered one duty location with the consequence that a trip, even if the distance
     exceeds 15 km from the origin to the destination within the same installation is considered a
     vicinity trip and not duty travel.
     A1.1.2. With the exception of the cases listed in para.A1.1.3., duty travel has to be directed
     by issuing a travel order (DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DoD
     Personnel). Supervisors will ensure that travel orders are issued before the start of the duty
     travel. Exceptions are only admissible under very special circumstances, if mission
     requirements or emergencies do not allow postponing duty travel until a travel order can be
     issued.
        A1.1.2.1. A DD Form 1610 will be prepared in accordance with the provisions of AFI
        33-328, as well as the pertinent supplementary guidance by HQ USAFE. Other
        provisions of AFI 33-328, to include amendments as well as the provisions of Chapter 4
        of the Joint Travel Regulations, Volume II (JTR), in regard to preparation, distribution,
        and validity of travel orders will be applied unless they are in contradiction to CTA II,
        App. R and the implementation provisions in this instruction.
        A1.1.2.2. Block 16 of DD Form 1610 will list CTA II, App. R and this instruction as the
        basis for payment of travel expenses or other allowances. USAFE Form 264, Temporary
        Duty Back for Non-US Citizen Personnel (Germany), (to be used as the reverse to DD
        Form 1610) contains a list of frequently occurring authorizations, requirements, and
        restrictions. The pertinent reference numbers are to be listed in block 16 of DD Form
        1610. Other authorizations/restrictions such as day-/night allowance, authorization for
        reimbursement of actual hotel costs, or authorization of a rental car also have to be
        annotated in block 16.
        A1.1.2.3. Group travel of at least three employees may be directed by issuance of letter
        orders if data referred to in paragraphs A1.1.2.3.1 through A1.1.2.3.5 below is identical
        for all employees. For this purpose, a DD Form 1610 may be used as well. The obverse
        of a letter order shall contain the same information as printed on a DD Form 1610 or the
        data that would have to be entered for an individual travelling. On the reverse, all
        travelers have to be listed by name and with the required personal and official data as
        follows:
            A1.1.2.3.1. Type of duty travel reimbursement.
USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011                                                                         5


           A1.1.2.3.2. External duty location or locations, dates of departure and completion of
           duty travel.
           A1.1.2.3.3. Furnishing of quarters and/or meals.
           A1.1.2.3.4. Mode of travel.
           A1.1.2.3.5. Incidental expenses.
   A1.1.3. Generally, a DD Form 1610 is not required for one-day duty travel in country or a
   vicinity trip. In these cases, travel expenses will be calculated and reimbursed using USAFE
   Form 594. The procedures as well as the respective pay categories are established in
   USAFEI 36-709, Time and Attendance Reporting for Non-US Citizen Employees.
A1.2. Duration of Duty Travel, Para.R-I.2.:
Duty travel begins with the departure from the directed point of departure and ends upon return
to the directed destination. The employing agency establishes the point of departure and the
destination of duty travels. If a DD Form 1610 is issued, block 11 has to be filled out
accordingly. If the employee's domicile is outside his permanent duty station, these locations are
established as follows:
   A1.2.1. The place of duty will be considered the point of departure if the employee has to
   report to the employing agency before beginning the duty travel or if the distance between
   the destination and the place of duty is shorter than the one between the destination and the
   employee's domicile.
   A1.2.2. The employee's domicile will be considered the point of departure if the distance
   between the employee's domicile and the destination is shorter than the one from the place of
   duty or if it is in the interest of the employing agency in regard to the completion of business,
   comparable costs, or other considerations. Generally, the domicile from which the employee
   normally commutes to the place of duty will be the point of departure and return, and it is
   irrelevant if it is the primary or secondary residence.
   A1.2.3. The point of departure and the point of completion of duty travel may differ if it is in
   the interest of the employing agency.
   A1.2.4. The destination of the duty travel in the meaning of para.R-I.2b may be another
   external duty station or the point of completion of the travel. Regarding the requirement of
   an overnight stay, refer to the provisions on para.R-III.2.a.) in para.A3.1.1.
   A1.2.5. The requirement according to para.R-I.2c to immediately notify the employing
   agency of each interruption of the duty travel is met if the employee notifies his employing
   agency without willful or negligent delay. Generally, this notification should be done by
   telephone.
   A1.2.6. For duty travel extending over a weekend or other off-duty days, the return to the
   point of completion of the travel may be directed for the off-duty days if the official business
   does not require the employee to remain at the destination and the travel expense
   compensation is 25% less than the travel expense compensation that would have to be paid
   otherwise (i.e. if the employee had stayed at the external duty station over the weekend).
 6                                                              USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011


        A1.2.6.1. If the employee remains at the external duty station even though he was
        directed otherwise, the travel expense compensation will be paid that the employee would
        have received if he had complied with the directive.
        A1.2.6.2. If the above mentioned minimum percentage of cost savings is not achieved
        the employee may be allowed to return on weekends and other off-duty days upon
        request. In this case, the travel expense compensation and the day allowance will be paid
        up to the amount the employee would have received as travel allowance if he had stayed
        at the external duty station.
        A1.2.6.3. A directive or authorization of an intermediate return to the permanent duty
        station or residence has to be annotated on the DD Form 1610. Such an interruption is
        not considered to be a termination of the duty travel and there is no need to issue a new
        DD Form 1610 if the employee resumes his duties at the external duty station on the next
        regular duty day.
A1.3. Pay during duty travel, para.R-I.3.: For the duration of the duty travel the employee
continues to receive his regular pay as well as the pertinent tariff allowances for overtime work,
night work, and work on Sundays and holidays performed during the duty travel.
     A1.3.1. Time spent travelling is not work time and therefore will not be considered in the
     determination of overtime work, night work, and work on Sundays and holidays. As a
     principle, duty travel shall be directed in such way that travel time will be spent during the
     employees' regular duty hours and not during their off-duty time.
     A1.3.2. In accordance with para.R-I.3.b) (3), employees who are directed to perform duty
     travel on an otherwise off-duty Saturday, Sunday, or a German legal holiday, i.e. who are
     travelling to or departing from the destination, will receive a lump sum compensation
     amounting to the basic pay for 4 hours. It will not be paid for off-duty or travel- free
     Saturdays, Sundays, or German legal holidays that fall within the period of duty travel. This
     lump sum compensation which does not constitute a compe nsation for hours actually worked
     applies to all employees including those employees who are paid in accordance with a special
     salary tariff.
     A1.3.3. In deviation from para.R-I.3.b), para.R-I.3.c) establishes that motor vehicle
     operators will be compensated for overtime work, night work, work during Sundays and
     holidays that is performed during travel times (time spent driving) if they are required by
     their mission or upon directive by the employing agency to perform work or be on stand-by.
     This applies to operators of government owned vehicles. This exceptional provision also
     applies to other employees who, upon directive by the employing agency, operate a privately
     owned vehicle (POV) to transport persons, goods, or items – excluding items such as a
     briefcase or own work documents or similar – in accordance with their mission (note to the
     minutes on para.R-I.3.c). This has to be annotated on the DD Form 1610 with a
     corresponding remark. Employees who use a POV for personal reasons will not be
     reimbursed for travel times outside their regular work times.
A1.4. Travel Expense Compensation, Para.R-I.4.: For additional expenses incurred due to duty
travel, the employee will receive: Mileage compensation, travel allowance (day allowance, night
allowance), as well as reimbursement of documented incidental expenses.
USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011                                                                         7


  A1.4.1. The employee is required to heed the directives regarding the travel itinerary and the
  mode of transport. If no directives were issued the employee is required to use the most
  economical travel itinerary. Generally, the most direct and shortest route is also the most
  economical. However, additional factors such as road conditions, the number of towns to be
  travelled through, the factor of time, and similar aspects may make a longer distance more
  economical, e.g. if an external duty station may be reached faster via a longer highway
  connection.
  A1.4.2. In accordance with sentence 2 of para.R-I.4.c, travel allowance will not be paid for
  the stay at an employee's place of residence or within a distance of less than 15 kilometers
  (shortest usable road connection) from an employee's domicile even though it is duty travel
  by name. The reimbursement of mileage and incidental expenses remains unchanged.
  A1.4.3. Incidental expenses will be reimbursed if they were required for the performance of
  the external official business or for conducting the duty travel and the amount was
  unavoidable.
     A1.4.3.1. If incidental expenses are claimed, they have to be documented completely with
     bills or receipts; incidental expenses for which one usually can't obtain a receipt (such as
     telephone costs incurred by using a public phone, parking meter fees) require a pertinent
     personal statement.
     A1.4.3.2. The use of a taxi during the performance of official business is admissible if
     neither means of free transport nor public transportation are available or if the use of such
     transportation would be inexpedient under the given circumstances. The pertinent s upervisor
     is responsible for reviewing if the prerequisites for using a taxi were met.
  A1.4.4. Travel expenses will be reimbursed after completion of the duty travel. To that end, the
  employee will immediately send a travel expense voucher (USAFE Form 832, USAFE Travel
  Expense Voucher (Non-US, Germany)) via the responsible Civilian Personnel Flight to the
  Controlling and Services Direction / Foreign Forces Payroll Office (CSD/FFPO). Travel expense
  vouchers not submitted via the personnel office will be returned by the CSD/FFPO.
  A1.4.5. The timelines of Art.49, CTA II are applicable, i.e. the entitlement to travel expense
  reimbursement expires if not requested within 3 months after the completion of duty travel.
  A1.4.6. An advance travel expense reimbursement may be requested with USAFE Form 832
  (block 11). A completely filled out and signed USAFE Form 832 is considered a payment
  authorization if no travel order (DD Form 1610) is at hand to ensure a timely processing of the
  advance payment. The request shall be received at the CSD/FFPO at least 3 days before the start
  of the duty travel. The employing agency and/or the CSD/FFPO determines the amount of the
  advance travel expense reimbursement. The FFPO immediately transfers the advance payment
  funds to the employee's bank account.
  A1.4.7. Travel expense reimbursement for group travel that was directed with a collective travel
  order (letter order) may be processed using a multiple invoice (i.e. USAFE Form 832 and
  attached roster.) On the USAFE Form 832, a reference to the attached roster will be annotated
  instead of the traveler's name, address, and signature. On the roster, the employees listed on the
  letter order will be listed in numerical sequence with full name, grade, and bank account number.
  Each employee will sign a statement confirming the correctness of the entries made in USAFE
  Form 832.
 8                                                                USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011


                                            Attachme nt 2
                    REIMBURSEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION COSTS

The implementation provisions contained in this Attachment refer to provisions of Attachment R,
Part II, CTA II.
A2.1. Para.R-II.1, Mode of Transportation: The supervisor directing the duty travel or the
transportation officer determines the mode of transportation. This includes military aircraft
scheduled and used for transportation of personnel. If it is determined that the use of a military
aircraft is most advantageous for the effective execution of duty travel the employee affected by
such a decision has the option to perform the travel using p ublic or private means of
transportation or the own motor vehicle unless prohibited by special mission requirements.
However, transportation costs will only be reimbursed up to the amount the agency would have
incurred by using a military aircraft. Under no circumstances may an employee be forced to use
an aircraft for duty travel if prohibited for medical reasons and credibly documented by
submission of a medical certificate.
A2.2. Para.R-II.2, Use of Privately Owned Vehicle (POV): Utilizatio n of a POV may not be
directed for the execution of official business but it may be authorized if it is more advantageous
to the Government. Here, the supervisor directing the duty travel has to consider the advantages
and disadvantages, comparable transportation expenses, the travel allowances to be paid, and the
reimbursable incidental expenses, such as:
     A2.2.1. Official business requirements, including the transportation of luggage, tools, and
     equipment.
     A2.2.2. Availability of other means of transport and the effects on the time of productivity in
     relation to the time of travel.
     A2.2.3. Location of the official business in regard to traffic conditions, travel route, and
     weather.
     A2.2.4. Location of the external duty station in regard to the location of the lodging/dining
     facilities and the availability of other than private means of transport between these locations.
     A2.2.5. Advantages in regard to the total expenses if passengers are travelling in the same
     POV on official business.
     A2.2.6. Wage/salary costs resulting from additional travel time and the physical demands on
     the employee (with possible reduction of performance) if the duty travel requires travelling
     of significant distances.
A2.3. If it is determined that the use of a POV is more advantageous for the employing agency,
the employee is entitled to:
     A2.3.1. Payment of mileage allowance for the authorized distance or other routes specified
     in DD Form 1610 between the external duty location(s) and the permanent duty location or
     residence. In cases of POV travel to and from an airport or train station, the double distance
     (POV travel for pick-up and drop-off) may be authorized.
     A2.3.2. Payment of mileage allowance for travels at the individual external duty location
     that are required in the performance of official business.
USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011                                                                         9


   A2.3.3. Reimbursement of expenses for parking fees on the way and at the individual
   external duty station, as well as fees for using ferries, bridges, roads, and tunnels.
A2.4. If the employee is authorized to use his POV exclusively upon his request expenses will
be reimbursed only up to the amount of expenses for the means of transportation the employing
agency would have provided or authorized for the travel between the permanent duty station
(residence) and the external duty station or stations. If the employee had had to use short-
distance transportation at the external duty station (to include travels between the train station /
hotel / external duty station) he will also be paid mileage allowance for the distances that he
would have travelled otherwise with these means of transportation. This compensation will be
paid together with the limited amount specified in sentence 1.
A2.5. The authorization to use a POV for travelling, of special travel itineraries, and possible
travels at the external duty station has to be annotated on the DD Form 1610. If the requirements
of the above paragraph A2.3. are met the appropriate box has to be checked in block 12 of the
DD Form 1610 and a reference to No. 7 on the reverse (USAFE Form 264) be made with the
additional specification of the mileage allowance rate (if applicable to include the increase for
transportation of passengers). In case the conditions of paragraph A2.4. above are met, do not
check block 12 of DD Form 1610 but instead only enter a reference to No. 8 on the reverse.
Additionally, the means of transportation that would have been authorized by the employing
agency for the travel by surface or air have to be annotated in block 16, as well as the maximum
amount for the payment of the mileage allowance.
A2.6. The employee will record travels with a POV at the external duty station on USAFE Form
832 individually, each time listing date, itinerary (from – to), and number of kilometers.
A2.7. Passengers in POVs do not receive travel expense compensation. They will enter "PAS"
as the means of transportation in USAFE Form 832.
 10                                                              USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011


                                           Attachme nt 3
          TRAVEL ALLOWANCE FOR DUTY TRAVEL OF SEVERAL DAYS
             AND DAY ALLOWANCE FOR ONE-DAY DUTY TRAVEL

The implementation provisions contained in this Attachment refer to provisions of Attachment R,
Parts III and IV, CTA II.
A3.1. Travel allowance for duty travel of several days. The travel allowance for duty travel of
several days is comprised of the day allowance (Part III, para.1) and the night allowance (Part
III, para.2).
   A3.1.1. Night allowance. A night allowance IAW para.R-III.2.a) will be paid for each
   overnight required.
       A3.1.1.1. For duty travel of several days an overnight before the beginning of the official
       business is required if the travel time would significantly exceed the time between the
       start of the regular work time and the beginning of the official business as established
       without contribution of the employee. If the official business starts on a Monday or a
       work day following a German legal holiday it should be scheduled, in consideration of
       the provisions of para.R-I.3.b), to start at a time that allows the travel to the duty location
       during the employee's regular work hours on this day.
       A3.1.1.2. Whether an overnight is required after the termination of the official business
       depends on the provisions of para.R-I.2.b. These require the employee to continue
       travelling or return on the same day after completion of the official business if the official
       business or the travel to and the official business did not take more than ten hours and the
       employee is able to reach the destination before 22:00 hrs.
       A3.1.1.3. Night allowance will not be paid if no overnight is required because the travel
       and/or departure was conducted at night.
   A3.1.2. Additional expenses for an earlier travel or later return not required by the official
   business will not be reimbursed. An earlier travel or later departure for personal reasons
   should be annotated on the DD Form 1610 to the extent possible. Travel allowance may only
   be authorized based on the requirements of the official business. This does not affect the
   payment of mileage allowance. Personal travel times deviating from the duty travel itinerary
   will also be annotated on the travel expense voucher.
   A3.1.3. The employing agency will determine the maximum rates for overnights for the individual
   localities in accordance with the rates listed in the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR), Vol.II., App.B
   (http://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/perdiem/perdiemrates.html) and the pertinent entry in DD
   Form 1610. The rate listed for the category "Other" will be applied if the particular duty travel
   destination is not listed in the JTR. The Dollar amounts have to be transformed into Euro amounts
   using the official, four-digit decimal currency exchange rate available on the Internet under
   http://www.21tsc.army.mil/266Finance/Exchangecalculator/Default.asp .
       A3.1.3.1. In exceptional cases where under consideration of previous experience and
       other cost information, or because particularities of the official business require the use of
       lodging facilities above the regular price level, the maximum amount listed in the JTR is
       insufficient, the supervisor directing the duty travel may authorize a higher rate. The
       following remark in block 16 of DD Form 1610 will serve as the payment authorization:
USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011                                                                     11


"The reimbursement of actual overnight expenses for each required overnight is authorized."
       A3.1.3.2. For the reimbursement of required hotel expenses not anticipated before the
       duty travel a pertinent amendment of the initial DD Form 1610 has to be issued based on
       a written statement to be provided by the traveler. In any event, the reimbursement
       amount on the travel expense voucher has to be substantiated by adding the hotel bill(s).
   A3.1.4. Expenses for meals. Expenses for meals are not included in the total amount of the
   night allowance. If the expenses for meals are separately listed on the hotel bill, the
   corresponding amount has to be deducted from the total amount. If the expenses for meals
   are included in the hotel bill, a reduced amount is to be reimbursed in accordance wit h the
   note to the minutes on para.R-III.2.a.
   A3.1.5. Free lodging. Night allowance will not be paid if the U.S. Forces provide the
   employee with own lodging facilities. This is to be annotated on the DD Form 1610. The
   use of free lodging may only be directed if it meets the general standards (c.f. para.R-
   III.2.b.(2)). Night allowance will be paid if the employee has agreed to use free lodging that
   does not meet general standards.
A3.2. Day allowance for one-day duty travel. The provisions on day allowance for one-day
duty travel (R- IV, CTA II) also apply if the employee's work orders require him to regularly
work 15 kilometers or more outside his permanent duty station with a daily return (para.R-I.,
no.1a). Entitlements to reimbursement of travel expenses will be requested in accordance with
USAFEI 36-709.
 12                                                            USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011


                                         Attachme nt 4
          REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES FOR FOREIGN DUTY TRAVEL

On the basis of CTA II, Attachment R, Part V, this Attachment establishes guidelines for the
reimbursement of travel expenses for duty travel outside Germany. Generally, the tariff
provisions for duty travel within the Federal Republic of Germany are applicable, as well as the
pertinent implementation provisions contained in appendices A, B, and C to this instruction
unless they are changed or amended by the provisions of this Attachment.
A4.1. One-day duty travel. For one-day duty travel outside Germany a duty travel order (DD
Form 1610 in connection with USAFE Form 264) is required.
   A4.1.1. The applicable day allowance rates will be established by the directing agency as
   follows: The tax exemption amount for the individual country in which the official business
   has to be conducted will be selected. The rates may be queried on the Internet under
   http://www.bundesfinanzministerium.de by searching for the term "Auslandsdienstreisen".
   If the duty travel is conducted to several countries the amount for the last country in which
   official business is conducted is selected. The pertinent entry (lump sum amount for
   additional meal expenses for the full calendar day) will be made in block 16 of DD Form
   1610.
   A4.1.2. The payable day allowance will be calculated by the CSD/FFPO on the basis of the
   rate specified in para.A4.1.1. depending on the following periods of absence:
       For absences of                        Percentage of the German tax exemption
                                              amount applicable to the individual
                                              country or the specified amount in Euro

       8 hours or more                        33% or at least € 8.00
       12 hours or more                       33% or at least € 14.00
       14 hours or more                       66% or at least € 14.00
A4.2. Several-days duty travel. The directing agency determines the day allowance and the
maximum amounts for night allowance as follows a nd enters the corresponding rates in Euro
(see above – A3.1.3. for exchange rates) in block 16 of DD Form 1610:
   A4.2.1. The day allowance is established according to the individual Local Meals Rate and
   Local Incidental Rate for the individual country/location as specified in the Joint Travel
   Regulations (JTR).
   A4.2.2. The maximum night allowance rate corresponds to the Maximum Lodging Rate for
   the individual country/location. The individual rates for CONUS and OCONUS may be
   queried on the Internet under http://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/perdiem/pdrates.html.
   A4.2.3. The amount of day allowance is not based on actual expenses. If the calculation of
   the day allowance per the JTR results in a total lower than the day allowance amount for duty
   travel within Germany, the latter amount is to be applied.
       A4.2.3.1. On the first day of travel as well as on further travel days, the country one
       arrives at before 12:00 a.m. (local time) is decisive for establishing the binding day
       allowance rate. For the calendar day when the duty travel ends, the rate for the last
USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011                                                                         13


       location in the country outside Germany where official business has been conducted is
       binding. If the return travel takes several days the applicable rate is that of the respective
       country that was reached before 12:00 a.m. (local time). If the duty travel is conducted
       by plane, the country is considered reached at the time of landing.
A4.2.3.2. For the first and the last day of duty travel the payable day allowance rate will be
calculated by the CSD/FFPO based on the following times of absence:

       For absences of                    Percentage of the Day Allowance (JTR rate)
                                          or the specified amount in Euro

       8 hours or more                    50% or at least € 12.00
       12 hours or more                   100% or at least € 24.00

The employee is required to submit receipts on the expenses for overnights to claim night
allowance. For each overnight not substantiated by a receipt only, the night allowance rate for
duty travel in Germany as specified in R-III.2.a. will be reimbursed. Overnight expenses that
exceed the JTR rates require, if possible, prior approval and a corresponding annotation on the
DD Form 1610. The approval may be granted – possibly also after the fact – by the Civilian
Personnel Officer or a supervisor in a corresponding function and depends on the submission of
adequate proof or a written statement regarding the unavoidability of expenses in excess of the
JTR rates.
A4.3. Insurances and other reimbursable expenses:
   A4.3.1. The employee is required to take out a health insurance for the duration of the
   foreign duty travel if the travel lasts longer than one day or if one-day duty travels occur
   frequently. A note on this requirement is to be annotated in block 16 of DD Form 1610. The
   expenses for such a health insurance will be reimbursed upon submission of the pertinent
   receipts.
   A4.3.2. Cost for vaccinations, passport, visa, and other required travel documents will be
   reimbursed.
   A4.3.3. Other, unforeseeable expenses the employee incurs in direct relation with the duty
   travel and beyond his control will be reimbursed upon submission of corresponding
   certificates.
 14                                                            USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011


                                         Attachme nt 5
 EXPENSES FOR TRANSPORTATION OF REMAINS OF DECEASED EMPLOYEES

A5.1. If an employee dies while on duty travel in-country or abroad, an eligible family member
will be reimbursed for the expenses for transportation of the remains to the extent these are not
covered by an insurance. If there is no family member to take care of the transportation and
funeral another authorized person may receive the reimbursement.
A5.2. Reimbursable costs are:
   A5.2.1. Expenses for the transportation from the location of death to the location of the
   funeral or cremation or to the last residence of the deceased if the distance is less.
   A5.2.2. Incidental expenses, such as for the one-time preparation of the corpse for
   transportation, a possibly required metal coffin, as well as transportation documents required
   for crossing borders.
A5.3. The substantiated actual expenses minus the due payments by other cost authorities (e.g.
legally prescribed or private insurances) will be reimbursed.
A5.4. The Civilian Personnel Office will contact the surviving dependents of the deceased
employee and advise them of the possibility of cost reimbursement upon furnishing of pertinent
proof. The required receipts (original bills and possibly other certificates) have to be submitted
to the last employing agency of the deceased and from there will be forwarded with a
confirmation to the Civilian Personnel Office. After proper review it will issue a payment
authorization via AF Form 825, Notification of Personnel Action (Non-US (Germany)).
USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011                                                                             15


                                           Attachme nt 6
                                          DUTY TRIPS

This Attachment contains the implementation provisions on Attachment R, Parts VI, CTA II.
A6.1. Definition of duty trip. Conducting external business constitutes a duty trip if the
prerequisites of duty travel in the meaning of R-I.1.a. are not met because:

- the external duty station is at a distance of less than 15 km from the departure location, or
- the external duty station is at a distance of more than 15 k m from the departure location but is
inside the same community or within the same large-scale installation as the employee's
permanent duty station.


A6.2. Expenses for commercial or public transportation (restricted to the amount for the most
advantageous, available means of transportation), expenses for approved travels with the
privately owned vehicle (POV) and incidental expenses such as parking fees or fees for official
telephone calls will be calculated and reimbursed using USAFE Form 594. It will be filled out
for each month and submitted with the time and attendance list. The reimbursement will take
place together with the payment of earnings.
   A6.2.1. On the USAFE Form 594, expenses have to be annotated individually with the date
   and the following information:
       A6.2.1.1. The kind and fare of the public transportation (original tickets or other original
       receipts have to be added).
       A6.2.1.2. The itinerary (from-to) and distance in kilometers if the POV is used.
       A6.2.1.3. Type, amount, and individual cost of incidental expenses. Original receipts
       have to be added.
       A6.2.1.4. If a receipt cannot normally be obtained (e.g. if parking meters or public
       telephones are used) the employee will add a written statement on the expenses incurred.
       A6.2.1.5. USAFE Forms 594 submitted by full-time released works council members
       will be signed by the same agency representative who is also responsible for signing the
       pertinent time and attendance lists.
   A6.2.2. For the reimbursement of expenses in accordance with this Attachment the issuance
   of a DD Form 1610 is not required.
 16                                                            USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011


                                         Attachme nt 7
PAYM ENTS IN CASES OF TRANSFERS OR APPOINTMENTS FROM OUTSIDE THE
                         COMMUTING AREA

A7.1. General. This Attachment contains guidance and procedures in reference to out-of-tariff
payments incident to transfers or appointments of employees from outside the commuting area.
The commuting area is defined in accordance with Art. 4, para.4.d) of the Tariff Agreement on
Protection from Rationalization Measures, Termination, and Protection of Income (Protection
Agreement).
A7.2. Principles and Requirements.
   A7.2.1. The below listed payments may be considered if an employee is transferred or
   appointed from outside the commuting area of the new duty station and the measure is in the
   best interest of the pertinent employing agency. In particular, this may be the case if the
   following requirements are met:
       A7.2.1.1. A position that is essential for mission accomplishment is to be filled and
       qualified applicants or applicants that could be trained within a reasonable timeframe for
       the tasks are not available within the commuting area of the employing agency.
       A7.2.1.2. An employee is transferred with his position duties or with his agency to
       another location.
       A7.2.1.3. An employee affected by a reduction- in- force is being transferred within the
       framework of the Protection Agreement to another duty station outside t he commuting
       area.
       A7.2.1.4. In case of reduction- in- force and closure of the installation (see above
       A7.2.1.3.) the payments under this Attachment are mandatory if the other prerequisites
       are met and if the employee's residence is also outside the commuting area of the new
       duty station.
          A7.2.1.4.1. The necessary expenses have to be borne by the losing employment
          agency. If applicable, the monies earmarked for the closure of the installation have to
          be used and allocated to the agency that is administratively responsible for the
          measures that have to be performed after the closure.
          A7.2.1.4.2. In case of transfer of the spouse or other family members living in the
          same household who are also employed with the US Forces and who are transferred
          to the same new duty station only one person is eligible for the payments in
          accordance with the below paragraphs A7.3. through A7.8. The employees will
          determine who should claim and receive the payments.
       A7.2.1.5. In the other cases (A7.2.1.1. and A7.2.1.2.), the Civilian Personnel Officer, in
       coordination with the chief of the employing agency, may approve the benefits listed in
       this attachment if an employee is transferred or appointed from outside the commuting
       area of the new duty station and if this measure is in the best interest of subject agency.
USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011                                                                      17


A7.3. Travel Expense Compensation. A travel order may also be issued for a one-time travel
to and from a proposed new duty station so the employee may introduce himself there. The
disbursement will be executed on the basis of a USAFE Form 832 with the travel order attached.
A7.4. Reimbursement of Moving Expenses. An employee may be reimbursed expenses for
moving (realtor fees, transportation expenses, and incidental expenses) if he maintained a
residence outside the commuting area of his new duty station and moves into the commuting
area of the duty station within 12 months after the appointment or transfer. The employing
agency may extend this period if the move was delayed for justifiable personal reasons beyond
the employee's control and the anticipated moving date has been established. Extensions will be
documented on an AF Form 825 and are limited to a maximum of 1 year in individual cases.
Employees requiring a residence permit / work permit may only be reimbursed for moving
expenses if their permit is valid for at least another 12 months after the day of the move. The
authorization of the reimbursement of moving expenses expires if the employment relation ends
before the employee has moved.
   A7.4.1. Realtor Fees. Realtor fees may be reimbursed up to a maximum of the net amount
   of two month's rent.
   A7.4.2. Transportation Expenses. An employee may be reimbursed for transportatio n
   expenses upon request. The authorization will be annotated on the transfer order. For new
   appointments, the authorization as well as restrictions that have to be considered will be
   annotated on the AF Form 825 that establishes the employment relation.
       A7.4.2.1. The reimbursement of transportation expenses for moving items is restricted to
       50 cubic meters for singles and 100 cubic meters for married employees / registered
       cohabitants. Reimbursable transportation expenses include customs fees fo r the moving
       items as well as value added tax as indicated on the invoice.
       A7.4.2.2. Considering that the transportation of moving items by a contract carrier of the
       US Air Forces (via the local transportation office – TMO) is less expensive, this option
       should be used for all transfers, unless special circumstances warrant the application of a
       reimbursement procedure on the basis of invoices by a private carrier. Before initiating a
       move via the TMO, the Civilian Personnel Officer has to ensure that the employee is
       advised of the valid provisions and procedures. This also includes the liability for
       damages on part of the carrier, as well as the procedures for claiming damages.
       A7.4.2.3. The limitation of the cubic measure applies to transportation of moving items
       by a private carrier as well as by an Air Force contract carrier. The Commander/Chief of
       the employing agency may authorize an exception to this limitation if warranted due to
       the number of family members or the size of the household. A pertinent request by the
       employee providing the reasons and the required cubic measure must be submitted and
       approved before the move.
   A7.4.3. Incidental Expenses. To cover incidental expenses (e.g. required procurement of
   curtains, carpets, paint or installation works) a one-time lump sum may be authorized. The
   maximum rates for the lump sum are as follows: Euro 1,050.00 for married employees /
   registered cohabitants; Euro 525.00 for all other employees. These rates will increase by
   Euro 231.00 for each single child, stepchild, or foster child who continues to live together
   with the employee in a joint household.
 18                                                           USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011


   A7.4.4. Payme nt. For the reimbursement of expenses in accordance with the provisions of
   this section (moving expenses) the employee has to submit the travel order, original invoices,
   and other required original receipts to the responsible CPF. The FFPO will do the calculation
   and initiate disbursement on the basis of the payment authorization initiated by the CPF.
   A7.4.5. Return to the Initial Residence after Reduction-in-Force. If the employment of
   an employee who was reimbursed for the expenses for moving to his new duty station is
   terminated within 24 months after his transfer or appointment for ope rational reasons due to
   reduction in force, the employee will be reimbursed the expenses for moving to the vicinity
   of his previous residence. This entitlement expires if the move is not executed within 6
   months after the termination of the employment relation.
A7.5. Overnight Expense Allowance. An overnight expense allowance may be authorized for
employees if they are willing to move without restrictions and occupy non-gratuitous
accommodation at the new duty station.
   A7.5.1. At the time of transfer or appointment, the employee will sign a statement that he is
   willing to move without restrictions and will report all circumstances affecting the receipt of
   the overnight expense allowance to the responsible personnel office without dela y.
   A7.5.2. The overnight expense allowance may be paid from the first day of employment at
   the new duty station until the day of the move to the new residence, but not to exceed 365
   days.
   A7.5.3. The overnight expense allowance rate for o ne calendar day is Euro 14.00. If the
   substantiated overnight expenses are lower than the daily overnight expense allowance rate
   multiplied with the number of calendar days of the corresponding month, only the actually
   substantiated overnight expenses will be reimbursed.
   A7.5.4. The overnight expense allowance will be reclaimed and set off against the monthly
   pay if the employee does not move within the prescribed period. It is cancelled on the day of
   the move or if the employment relation is terminated.
   A7.5.5. Employees may receive a travel expense allowance once a month for travelling to
   their permanent residence and back in accordance with below para.A7.6. Expenses for
   travelling home will not be reimbursed for months the employee spent less than 15 calendar
   days at the new duty station.
A7.6. Commuters Allowance. Employees who have stated in writing that they are willing to
move without restrictions but do not have accommodation at the new duty station and return to
their permanent residence every day will receive a travel expense allowance. The basis for
calculating the travel expense allowance is the difference between the kilometers travelled from
the residence to the old duty station and back and the commute to and from the new duty station.
   A7.6.1. Regardless of the mode of transportation, the commuters allowance is Euro 0.18 per
   calculated kilometer.
A7.6.2 The daily commuters allowance may not exceed the amount of the overnight expense
allowance per work day.
   A7.6.3. The allowance will be authorized on AF Form 825 and is limited to 12 months
   beginning on the effective date of the transfer. The disbursement will occur together with the
   employee's monthly earnings. Payment will be cancelled after the expiration of the
USAFEI36-701 3 MARCH 2011                                                                     19


   authorized period without prior notice. If the employee no longer incurs any travel expenses
   before the expiration of 12 months the payment will be cancelled using an AF Form 825.
A7.7. Housing Allowance. Employees who have not exhausted the full amount of the
authorized overnight expense allowance may receive a monthly housing allowance under the
following conditions.
   A7.7.1. The rent for an appropriate domicile is higher than that at the previous residence and
   exceeds 18% of the employee's monthly basic pay at the time of authorization. The basis
   will be the net rental amount without utilities.
   A7.7.2. The employee is not entitled to a rent subsidy in accordance with the Rent Subsidy
   Act and the rent is not borne jointly with other persons or members of the household. The
   employee will provide a written, binding statement to this effect.
   A7.7.3. The total amount of the housing allowance may not exceed the total amount of the
   overnight expense allowance for 365 calendar days minus the already paid amounts of
   overnight expense allowance or travel expense allowance. The remaining overnight
   allowance of the employee that is to be paid as a monthly housing allowance will be Euro
   150.00 as a minimum. Lesser amounts will be disbursed to the employee as a one-time lump
   sum.
   A7.7.4. The housing allowance paid will be the amount that the rent exceeds 18% of the
   monthly basic pay. If this calculation results in a monthly amount of less than Euro 50.00
   however, a monthly minimum amount of Euro 50.00 will be paid until the remaining sum is
   exhausted. (E.g.: A remaining amount of Euro 175.00 will be distributed to 3 monthly
   amounts of Euro 50.00, Euro 50.00, and Euro 75.00.)
   A7.7.5. If the employee purchases a house or a condominium at the new duty station the
   locally customary rental amount is determined based on the local rental index to calculate the
   housing allowance. The same procedure will be applied for employees who were in
   possession of a house or an apartment at the old duty station.
   A7.7.6. The housing allowance will be paid from the first full calendar month during which
   the new domicile is occupied until the remaining amount of overnight expense allowance that
   the employee is entitled to is exhausted. In any event, the payment of housing allowance is
   stopped the month the employment is terminated.
   A7.7.7. The employee will submit the request for housing allowance with or as an
   attachment to USAFE Form 52 together with a copy of the rental contract via his employing
   agency to the personnel office. The approval and disbursement authorization will be effected
   with AF Form 825. It will indicate the monthly allowance amount as well as the duration of
   payment.
A7.8. Lump Sum Expense Compensation. Employees maintaining an own household who
cannot or do not want to relocate to the new duty location may be granted a lump sum expense
compensation. The employee has to substantiate and, if applicable, provide evidence on the
increased expenses. The lump sum expense compensation amount is Euro 1,200.00. The
employee has to agree in writing that he will pay back the lump sum expense compensation in
the event he resigns from his employment or if the employment is terminated for cause within 12
months after transfer or appointment.
