BY ORDER OF THE USAFE COMMANDER                                        US AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
US AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                                     INSTRUCTION 32-7065
                                                                                  15 OCTOBER 1997
                                                                 Incorporating Change 1, 17 April 2008
                                                                       Certified Current 4 August 2014
                                                                                     Civil Engineering

                                                         CULTURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/CEV                                      Certified by: HQ USAFE/CEV (Col Coullahan)
Supersedes USAFE Instruction 32-7065,                                                   Pages: 9
           28 February 1996

This instruction implements Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 4715.5, Management of Environ-
mental Compliance at Overseas Installations, and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-70, Environ-
mental Quality, by identifying USAFE requirements for a cultural resources management program. It
applies to all US Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) units. It does not apply to US Air Force Reserve or
National Guard units.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This interim change updates terminology and deletes references to outdated databases, Air Force Instruc-
tions (AFI), and training courses. A margin bar indicates newly revised material.


1. General:
   1.1. References, Abbreviations, Acronyms, and Terms. See Attachment 1.
   1.2. Background. DoDI 4715.5, AFPD 32-70, and the Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance
   Document (OEBGD) require the implementation of cultural resources management standards at
   installations and facilities in foreign countries.
   1.3. Concept. This instruction provides a framework to help installations comply with Final Govern-
   ing Standards (FGS) requirements.
   1.4. Responsibilities:
       1.4.1. The Lead Environmental Component (LEC) issues the FGS and revalidates it on a periodic
       basis.
       1.4.2. Environmental Branch (HQ USAFE/A7AV) oversees implementation of installation cul-
       tural resources programs.
2                                                                USAFEI32-7065 15 OCTOBER 1997


       1.4.3. Installations comply with the FGS.

2. Installation Requirements:
    2.1. Background. Cultural resources, artifacts, archeological sites, cultural areas, and historic sites
    are fragile. Protect and manage cultural resources to comply with the FGS.
    2.2. Inventories. Perform cultural resource inventories according to the FGS.
    2.3. Cultural Resources Management Plan (CRMP). Prepare and maintain a cultural resources
    management plan. The installation’s Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
    (ESOHC) chairperson must approve the plan. Include resources on the installations’ geographically
    separated units of responsibility. See Attachment 2 for the suggested cultural resources management
    plan format.
       2.3.1. The CRMP is an integral part of the base comprehensive plan (BCP) (see AFI 32-7062, Air
       Force Comprehensive Planning). Review and update the CRMP every 5 years, or as required, and
       integrate it into the BCP.
       2.3.2. Installations with no known cultural resources will document any cultural surveys per-
       formed, develop contingency plans for undiscovered cultural resources, and address structures and
       sites whose historic significance may become clearer through future evaluation.

3. Assessing Effects and Consulting With Host Nation:
    3.1. Background. Installations must identify what effects projects might have on cultural resources.
    3.2. Assessing Effects:
       3.2.1. Use the environmental impact analysis process (see AFI 32-7061, The Environmental
       Impact Analysis Process) to assess the effects of Air Force undertakings on cultural resources.
       3.2.2. If after assessment the Air Force determines that the undertaking will result in an adverse
       effect to a cultural resource, consult with HQ USAFE/A7AV, the LEC, and appropriate host nation
       authority to determine the proper course of action.
    3.3. Discovery of Resources. If potential host nation cultural resources not previously identified are
    discovered in the course of a DoD action, preserve and protect the newly discovered resources. The
    installation commander decides the final disposition of resources according to the FGS.

4. Cultural Resources Budgeting:
    4.1. Funding Sources: AFI 32-7001, Environmental Budgeting, specifies procedures for obtaining
    cultural resources funding.

5. Training:
    5.1. General In-house Training. The installation’s environmental flight shall present cultural
    resources information and programs at newcomer orientation briefings.
USAFEI32-7065 15 OCTOBER 1997                                3


  5.2. DELETED.



                                L. DEAN FOX, Colonel, USAF
                                Director of Civil Engineer
4                                                                 USAFEI32-7065 15 OCTOBER 1997


                                              Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 4165.14, Real Property Inventory and Forecasting, 31 March 2006
DoDI 4715.5, Management of Environmental Compliance at Overseas Installations, 22 April 1996
DoD 5400.7_AFSUP, DoD Freedom of Information Act, 24 June 2002
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994
AFI 32-7001, Environmental Budgeting, 9 May 1994
AFI 32-7061, The Environmental Impact Analysis Process, 12 March 2003
AFI 32-7062, Air Force Comprehensive Planning, 1 October 1997

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BCP—Base Comprehensive Plan
CRMP—Cultural Resources Management Plan
ESOHC—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
FGS—Final Governing Standards
LEC—Lead Environmental Component
OEBGD—Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document
USAFE—US Air Forces in Europe

Terms
Adverse Effect—Changes that may diminish a cultural resource’s integrity in terms of location, design,
setting, materials, workmanship, feeling, or association. Adverse effects on cultural resources include:
    -Physical destruction, damage, or alteration of all or part of the resource.
    -Neglect of a resource that results in its deterioration or destruction.
    -Encroachment on a resource through construction or development.
Consultation—A process initiated by the installation commander in which the commander confers with
the HQ USAFE, environmental executive agent, and appropriate host nation officials, to reduce or avoid
adverse impacts on known cultural resources.
Cultural Resource—Any historic, archeological, and cultural areas of interest or artifacts significant in
American history (e.g., Cold War facilities) or acknowledged by the host nation as a significant cultural
resource. Physical remains of any prehistoric or historic district, site, building, structure, or object
significant in American or host nation history, architecture, archeology, or engineering. Historic
properties include related artifacts, records, and remains.
USAFEI32-7065 15 OCTOBER 1997                                                                        5


Final Governing Standards (FGS)—Country-specific substantive provisions with which DoD
components must comply. In the absence of a country-specific FGS, DoD components must comply with
the OEBGD.
Geographically Separated Unit (GSU)—Site or facilities detached or off-base from the installation that
has real property responsibility.
Installation—Those DoD facilities that have been assigned a unique DoD installation/station code as
defined by military department regulations issued pursuant to DoDI 4165.14, Real Property Inventory
and Forecasting.
Lead Environmental Component (LEC)—Component or unified commander designated by the
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Acquisition as responsible for developing and publishing the Final
Governing Standards for a specific country.
Overseas Environmental Baseline Guidance Document (OEBGD)—I m p l e m e n t a t i o n g u i d a n c e ,
procedures and criteria for environmental compliance at DoD installations in overseas locations. The
OEBGD is used by the environmental executive agents to develop the FGS and, in the case where no FGS
exists, provides the compliance criteria for use by the Air Force.
Undertaking—Any project, activity or program funded in whole or in part by a Federal agency.
6                                                                  USAFEI32-7065 15 OCTOBER 1997


                                               Attachment 2

                   CULTURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PLAN FORMAT

A2.1. Executive Summary:
    A2.1.1. Summarize the major points of the plan.
    A2.1.2. Identify future directions for the plan.


A2.2. General Information:
    A2.2.1. Authority. The final governing standards (FGS) require management plans be developed for
    the protection and preservation of known cultural resources.
    A2.2.2. Conditions for Implementation, Revision, and Approval. Example: This plan will be
    implemented upon approval by the installation’s Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health
    Council (ESOHC), which is hereby given oversight for the cultural resources program. This plan may
    be revised at any time by submitting a requested revision to the ESOHC through the Environmental
    Flight (CEV). Review and update the cultural resources management plan every 5 years, or in the
    event of a major mission change or a significant resource is identified on the base.
    A2.2.3. Purpose of the Plan. EXAMPLE: This plan is prepared to assist in the conservation of cul-
    tural resources on the installation. The plan acts as a provisional “road map” ensuring cultural
    resources are managed and integrated into all phases of installation and mission planning. The plan
    provides a concise description of the base setting and historical context; identifies known cultural
    resources, management issues and concerns, notification and coordination procedures with the host
    nation; and specifies training requirements.
    A2.2.4. Management Philosophy. Explain the installation’s overall approach to minimizing impact
    on cultural resources, and its approach in managing the resources with the host nation.
    A2.2.5. Installation’s Location and Mission. Briefly describe the installation’s location and mis-
    sion.
    A2.2.6. Organizational Listing, Roles, and Responsibilities. List important base organizations and
    host nation agencies, and discuss their impact on the cultural resources program. Describe specific
    responsibilities for managing the program. Include management plan preparation, program implemen-
    tation and approval, resource maintenance, and reviewing proposed actions for impact on the installa-
    tion’s cultural resources. Identify base and host nation cultural resources authorities’ points of contact.

    A2.2.7. Goals and Objectives. Outline the goals and planning objectives for the installation.
    EXAMPLE:
       A2.2.7.1. Develop and maintain an inventory of cultural resources.
       A2.2.7.2. Use the inventory in base development and mission planning to protect and preserve
       cultural resources.
USAFEI32-7065 15 OCTOBER 1997                                                                             7


      A2.2.7.3. Identify a procedure for notifying host nation personnel in the event there is an archae-
      ological “find.”
      A2.2.7.4. Identify host nation points of contact for on-going coordination related to cultural
      resources.
      A2.2.7.5. Manage cultural resources to provide recreational and educational opportunities for
      base and area residents.

A2.3. Cultural Resources Inventory:
   A2.3.1. Cultural Framework:
      A2.3.1.1. Summarize the known prehistory and history of the installation and surrounding area.
      A2.3.1.2. Identify any known US or host nation-sponsored research projects conducted in the sur-
      rounding area.
      A2.3.1.3. Provide a brief synopsis on the history of the base’s built environment, such as number
      and type of buildings constructed pre-World War II, post-World War II, etc. Include major con-
      struction, architectural styles and building techniques in use at that time.
   A2.3.2. Literature Review. List sources of available literature on the area’s history and prehistory
   and what was reviewed in developing the cultural framework.
   A2.3.3. Resources Inventory:
      A2.3.3.1. Identify host nation and US criteria for determining cultural resources eligibility and
      justification.
      A2.3.3.2. Summarize known cultural resources in tabular and textual formats. Indicate whether
      resources are culturally significant to the US or host nation. Additionally, summarize any past cul-
      tural resources surveys or investigations conducted on the installation; include date of surveys,
      who conducted them, and results.
      A2.3.3.3. If a host nation cultural resources inventory exists and identifies resources on base,
      briefly describe the host nation’s determination on the resources.
      A2.3.3.4. Describe any partnering programs between the Air Force and the host nation to inven-
      tory, manage and protect cultural resources.
      A2.3.3.5. If no installation-wide survey has been conducted, summarize the programming efforts
      taken to accomplish a survey (requirements are identified in the FGS), including fiscal year of
      accomplishment, project numbers, cost, and a detail description of the scope and method of
      accomplishment.
   A2.3.4. Areas of Concern:
      A2.3.4.1. Identify areas of the installation that may provide additional cultural resources, or areas
      considered culturally significant, e.g., architectural style, static displays or other monuments, her-
      itage trails, other special buildings, etc.
      A2.3.4.2. Describe any deficiencies or problems with the known inventory and identify corrective
      action.
   A2.3.5. Mapping:
8                                                                USAFEI32-7065 15 OCTOBER 1997


       A2.3.5.1. Maintain current maps showing locations of all cultural resources assets.
       A2.3.5.2. Ensure maps are incorporated into the base comprehensive planning system. Review
       and update maps when revising the cultural resources management plan.
       A2.3.5.3. Place information identifying sensitive cultural resources in a restricted access file; dis-
       tribute cultural resources maps only to authorized personnel.

A2.4. Compliance Procedures:
    A2.4.1. Issues:
       A2.4.1.1. Identify any unique cultural resources issues confronting the installation.
       A2.4.1.2. Identify potential impacts of cultural resource management on other base programs
       such as cleanup, construction and demolition, and training operations.
       A2.4.1.3. Identify any potential conflicts the cultural resource management program may have
       with mission accomplishment and procedures to mitigate them.
    A2.4.2. Preservation and Mitigation Strategies:
       A2.4.2.1. Prescribe internal review procedures to ensure cultural resources are considered during
       the planning process of Air Force undertakings.
       A2.4.2.2. Identify mitigation techniques for threatened resources. If the resources are significant
       to the host nation, involve the responsible host nation representative.
       A2.4.2.3. Identify preservation techniques for sites the installation consider significant, e.g.,
       maintaining architectural compatibility, special planning procedures for certain buildings, mainte-
       nance of displays, trails, etc.
       A2.4.2.4. Outline a plan for handling inadvertent discoveries of cultural resources. Establish pro-
       cedures for protecting newly discovered items pending final disposition by the installation com-
       mander or host nation.
       A2.4.2.5. Identify proposed maintenance, upgrade, or renovation projects for cultural resources.
    A2.4.3. Consultation Procedures:
       A2.4.3.1. Outline procedures for consulting with the installation office of primary responsibility,
       HQ USAFE, the LEC, and host nation officials.
       A2.4.3.2. Identify the points of contact by name, phone number, and office symbol.

A2.5. Training:
    A2.5.1. Explain how the installation cultural resources managers, in coordination with the base per-
    sonnel office, will incorporate basic information on cultural resources programs into newcomer brief-
    ings.
    A2.5.2. DELETE.

A2.6. Attachments. Attach supplemental information that provides useful reference.
USAFEI32-7065 15 OCTOBER 1997                                                                          9


  A2.6.1. Develop a section of relevant legislation and guidance from the host nation (national and
  local), the United States and the Air Force.
  A2.6.2. In a separate volume, compile list of cultural resources. Archeological site locations are sen-
  sitive information; do not release them to the general public, except as required by AFI 37-131, Free-
  dom of Information Act Program.
  A2.6.3. Attach individual site mitigation plans, if applicable.
