BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                    INSTRUCTION 10-505
EUROPE
                                                                        2 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                                                   Operations

                                                  GEOGRAPHICALLY SEPARATED UNIT
                                                            AND TENANT SUPPORT



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication is available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
               publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFE/A8ZC                                              Certified by: HQ USAFE/A8Z
                                                                                (Col J. Parker)
Supersedes:   USAFEI 25-201, 22 April 2002                                           Pages: 19


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-5, Basing, 26 Nov 93. It
establishes procedures and specific responsibilities for the support of USAFE geographically
separated units (GSU) and other command units in the USAFE Area of Responsibility (AOR) to
ensure consistent and successful support of military personnel, employees and family members.
It describes Command policy and processes to obtain available support, establishes baseline
responsibilities, and assigns Designated Support Wings (DSW) to GSUs and units at support
locations. For deployment support purposes, this instruction replaces USAFE/CV memo,
Subject: Interim Guidance – Supporting Deploying USAF Personnel Assigned to NATO, 23 Apr
2004. This instruction is applicable to USAFE units providing support to GSUs and other tenant
units. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) and their units.

Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command to
USAFE/A8Z at usafe.a8zbasesandforcesdivision@ramstein.af.mil.

Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
See Attachment 1 for a Glossary of References and Supporting Information.
 2                                                         USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes to the
scope of guidance within this document and changes to the order of various paragraphs from the
previous version of this instruction require this revision.
1. General.
     1.1. The Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe (COMUSAFE) ensures all
     USAFE personnel and dependent family members are adequately supported as they adapt to
     the changes and demands of military life at a sister service installation, remote site, or other
     isolated location within the USAFE area of responsibility.
     1.2. Geographically Separated Unit. For the purpose of this Instruction, a GSU is a USAFE
     unit that is not located on its parent unit installation. GSUs may be supported by the unit’s
     parent wing or another DSW. Note: Some USAFE GSUs exist solely to support non-USAFE
     units.
     1.3. Designated Support Wing. The USAFE Wing designated to address all GSU and
     activity support requirements for the units at the assigned locations. For the purpose of this
     instruction, the following Wings are DSWs: 100 ARW (RAF Mildenhall); 48 FW (RAF
     Lakenheath); 501 CSW (RAF Alconbury AB); 52 FW (Spangdahlem AB); 86 AW
     (Ramstein AB); 31 FW (Aviano AB); and 39 ABW (Incirlik AB).
     1.4. Non-USAFE units include North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) units
     (independent of whether the Air Force (AF) is assigned Administrative Agent (AA) for the
     unit), United States European Command (USEUCOM) activities (independent of whether the
     AF is assigned Executive Agent for the activity), non-USAFE AF activities, non-AF
     Department of Defense (DoD) activities, non-DoD US Government activities, and other non-
     US (i.e., international) activities.
2. Policy.
     2.1. General. DSWs should make every effort to ensure that all support provided to their
     respective GSUs is standardized, based on GSU size and location and on DSW capabilities.
     2.2. GSUs. GSUs located on or near non-USAFE installations (such as those operated by the
     Army, Navy, or host nation) will receive support from their host unit as outlined in an
     Interservice Support Agreement (ISSA) IAW DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and
     Intragovernmental Support. If the host is unresponsive, the GSU should contact its parent
     wing/organization for resolution.
     2.3. Air Force as Administrative Agent (AA). NATO-assigned US personnel in units
     assigned to “Air Force” as AA by DOD 7000.14-R, Department of Defense Financial
     Management Regulation, Volume 11A, Chapter 9, “Support of International Military
     Activities,” which provides support guidance for the AA, will be supported strictly IAW
     Chapter 9. Administrative support will be clearly defined in an ISSA. USAFE will not
     provide support for mission-related requirements, support for non-AF-specific service
     requirements, or administrative support beyond AF standardized levels of support.
     2.4. Other service as AA. NATO-assigned US personnel supported by non-USAFE
     organizations (e.g., Army or Navy) should receive support from their AA as outlined in an
USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                  3


  ISSA, IAW DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 11A, Chapter 9, which provides support guidance for
  the AA. If the AA identified in Chapter 9 is unresponsive to its needs, the unit should contact
  EUCOM/J1 to petition the supporting command/service for support. If the NATO unit is
  staffed by AF personnel, AF personnel may contact HQ USAFE/A8Z to coordinate with the
  MAJCOM of the AA organization to provide the required administrative support.
     2.4.1. At the discretion of the DSW commander, USAFE DSWs may provide short-term
     support to meet emergent US personnel (e.g., DoD, DOJ, DOS) requirements. This
     support should be finite and provided only on a reimbursable basis.
     2.4.2. USAFE units will not provide administrative support to Airmen assigned to units
     receiving AA support from another service.
  2.5. Support to non-USAFE units/personnel. USAFE units may provide support to non-
  USAFE units (e.g., AMC, ACC, AFSPC, Canadian Forces) at the discretion of the wing
  commander (with HQ USAFE/A8Z notification) or at the direction of HQ USAFE A5/8/9.
     2.5.1. The USAFE DSW/unit supporting the non-USAFE unit will ensure that a
     Memorandum of Agreement (MOA), Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), ISSA, or
     international agreement is in place prior to providing support. The agreement must
     clearly stipulate that all reimbursable costs incurred by the USAFE unit will be paid by
     the supported unit, IAW DoDI 4000.19 and AFI 25-201, Support Agreements
     Procedures. Failure to pay for services provided will result in withholding or removal of
     those services.
     2.5.2. USAFE DSWs/units will conduct routine reviews of ISSAs with non-USAFE
     units to ensure the support remains properly documented and is reimbursed IAW DoDI
     4000.19, AFI 25-201 and AFI 65-601 V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures.
  2.6. Units desiring residence on USAFE Installations. Any organization or activity desiring
  to move onto a USAFE installation requires COMUSAFE approval. This requirement applies
  also to existing agencies planning a significant mission increase that will drive increased
  facility and/or operating support requirements.
     2.6.1. All requests for beddown actions on USAFE installations will first be routed
     through HQ USAFE A5/8/9 for COMUSAFE approval prior to submission to the Air
     Staff. HQ USAFE A5/8/9 will request that the wing conduct/submit an
     assessment/recommendation to USAFE/A8Z for all beddown requests prior to staffing to
     COMUSAFE.
     2.6.2. USAFE commanders will ensure Headquarters Air Force (HAF)/A8P strategic
     basing processes are followed prior to allowing non-USAFE units to beddown on USAFE
     installations.
     2.6.3. If directed by HQ USAFE, a MOA or MOU between the sponsoring command
     and USAFE will be concluded, prior to the conclusion of the ISSA.
  2.7. Guidance on Air Force civilian personnel servicing arrangements is contained in AFI
  36-105, Civilian Personnel Servicing Arrangements.
 4                                                       USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


3. Procedures.
     3.1. USAFE Unit Support to GSUs. Each USAFE unit tasked to support a GSU shall
     determine the best method for meeting the GSU’s support requirements. All agreements must
     comply with DoD/AF guidance and have accurate accountability of all GSU-related funding
     expenditures and manpower. Refer to DoDI 4000.19 to document support relationships
     between a USAFE DSW and a non-AF GSU Receiver. Use AFI 25-201 to document support
     relationships between a DSW and an AF GSU Receiver.
     3.2. Support to GSUs. Support to GSUs will generally be provided by the DSW located
     closest to the GSU in terms of geography or travel time, even if that DSW is not the GSU’s
     parent wing. Typically, the DSW providing the majority of support will have the GSU’s
     facilities on its real property records and the requirement on their unit manning document
     (UMD). A GSU’s parent wing may determine that the parent wing should be the DSW for
     the GSU. In some cases, DSWs that are not the GSU’s parent wing will provide support for
     GSUs based on negotiated support agreements between the DSW and the GSU’s leadership
     or parent unit.
        3.2.1. MOAs and/or ISSAs between USAFE organizations are not required, unless the
        agreement is needed to document services that are being provided above and beyond the
        wing’s current financial and manpower capabilities. In these cases, since reimbursement
        for services is not required, MOUs shall provide sufficient documentation for future
        Program Objective Memorandums (POM) and requests for increased manpower.
        3.2.2. Attachment 2 contains tables identifying the support relationships between
        USAFE DSWs and GSUs. In some cases, supported units that are collocated may
        actually each be assigned to different DSWs for support.
        3.2.3. Commanders must plan for the inclusion of their assigned GSUs and non-USAFE
        units when considering specific activities: deployment-specific; drinking water,
        Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health (ESOH) support; anti-terrorism
        programs; and incident management.
     3.3. DSW Support Activities for GSUs. In most cases the full-range of support activities
     offered at DSWs cannot be offered at all GSUs. As a result of the limitations inherent with
     being geographically separated, AF members at GSUs are entitled to have Quality-of-Life
     (QoL) concerns addressed by the DSW.
     3.4. Support to NATO Units. Each NATO unit with assigned US personnel (where the AF is
     the AA) will be assigned a USAFE DSW. If the unit considers USAFE support unresponsive
     or inadequate, it should coordinate with the supporting unit (identified in Attachment 2 of
     this Instruction). If coordination with the wing does not satisfy the unit’s needs, it should
     contact HQ USAFE/A8Z for resolution.
        3.4.1. Support (e.g., Demand Reduction, Contingency Exercise Deployment orders,
        deployment personnel support) is provided to NATO-assigned AF personnel by
        Personnel Accounting Symbol (PAS) code. The first two digits of the PASCODE
        designate which force support squadron (FSS) provides personnel support. Finance and
        accounting support is provided based on the AF member’s assigned Accounting and
        Disbursing Symbol Number (ADSN).
USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                5


     3.4.2. DSWs are tasked to provide deployment support for AF personnel assigned to
     NATO units and should contact supported units to ensure adequately functioning
     processes are in place. Since FSSs are not equipped to provide deployment support for
     NATO personnel under their administrative control, deployment support must come from
     the supporting DSW. Deployment support may also be required for non-AF US personnel
     assigned to NATO units for which the AF is designated as the NATO AA.
         3.4.2.1. USAFE DSWs will process AF military personnel and Department of Air
         Force civilians assigned to NATO billets and provide the support necessary to deploy
         them to a combat area in accordance with AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and
         Execution.
         3.4.2.2. Deployment processors (e.g., supply, civil engineering, medical and security
         forces) will provide deployment equipment, deployment medical care and training
         upon presentation of a valid DoD ID card, NATO travel orders, tasking letter/task list
         from NATO Headquarters, or a NATO Command. Deploying NATO-billeted
         personnel need to meet all of the pre-deployment and post-deployment requirements
         listed in AFI 10-403. All deploying AF personnel in NATO billets will initiate pre-
         deployment processing through the supporting DSW’s Installation Personnel
         Readiness (IPR). This will ensure all DoD/AF policies and requirements are satisfied.
         The Airman and Family Readiness Centers’ Readiness Program will ensure that
         members and families are aware of all support services available throughout the
         deployment cycle.
         3.4.2.3. Deployment-related expenses may qualify for contingency funding and
         should be appropriately coded for reimbursement. Units preparing orders for travel to
         the DSWs for deployment preparation should ensure proper contingency accounting.
         Any funding questions should be addressed with the base comptroller.
         Comprehensive accounting of all expenditures in support of these deployment-related
         requirements must be recorded. Any manpower impact from this support to personnel
         in NATO billets needs to be documented by the DSW manpower offices and offset
         from within existing DSW manpower funding as priorities dictate.
  3.5. USAFE Support to Non-USAFE AF Personnel. USAFE units shall provide support to
  non-USAFE AF personnel and other command sites in the USAFE AOR when collocated on
  an AF base or as assigned by EUCOM. Support will be documented in an ISSA and all
  reimbursable support will be recouped IAW AFI 25-201 and AFI 65-601. Non-USAFE AF
  personnel and other command sites should first seek support from their own parent command
  or AA before seeking support from USAFE.
     3.5.1. Other command activities and personnel should seek USAFE support by
     contacting HQ USAFE/A8Z. DSWs should be prepared to provide AF service-specific
     support not covered under AA agreements through ISSAs, MOUs, or MOAs. This
     support can include but is not limited to AF personnel records management, budget,
     training (including AF-specific training, weapons training, nuclear, biological and
     chemical warfare training), medical and dental, safety, command lines, demand
     reduction, leave and temporary duty processing, and deployment issues. The DSW will
     have a procedure or capability in place to assist other command activity personnel with
 6                                                        USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


        support issues related to legal, housing, finance, contracting, postal, permanent change of
        station.
        3.5.2. Non-USAFE units will reimburse USAFE DSWs for support expenditures which
        exceed DSW funding levels (e.g., facility operations and sustainment models), IAW
        DoDI 4000.19.
4. Responsibilities.
     4.1. HQ USAFE A5/8/9 shall:
        4.1.1. Establish command policy for GSUs and non-USAFE unit’s support by USAFE
        organizations.
        4.1.2. Establish and maintain a HQ USAFE GSU and Activities Management Branch
        (A8ZC) within existing HQ USAFE A5/8/9 manpower resources. Other USAFE
        directorates shall provide functional subject matter expert support to A8ZC as required.
     4.2. HQ USAFE/A8ZC will:
        4.2.1. Designate DSWs to support specific GSUs/locations within USAFE (see
        Attachment 2).
        4.2.2. Assist with interservice or host nation GSU support issues.
        4.2.3. Ensure GSU considerations are included in the USAFE Master Planning process.
        4.2.4. Provide continuity and maintain historical GSU information.
        4.2.5. Develop and maintain programs to keep DSW/GSU leadership and staffs informed
        on GSU issues.
        4.2.6. Review and update the DSW and GSU alignment list (Attachment 2) annually.
        4.2.7. Serve as the OPR for this instruction.
        4.2.8. Act as AA Point of Contact (POC) to represent the command on overarching AA
        support issues.
        4.2.9. Co-chair (with A4RI) the GSU/Activity Working Group that will meet quarterly to
        address GSU and NATO support issues.
        4.2.10. Staff new beddown requests or significant increases in the size of existing tenants
        for     COMUSAFE        approval.     Ensure       requests     include      an     impact
        assessment/recommendation from the installation commander before processing for
        COMUSAFE’s approval.
        4.2.11. Conduct an annual GSU Support Conference with the wing GSU support
        functions to address GSU and NATO support issues.
     4.3. HQ USAFE/A4R will:
        4.3.1. Appoint an Administrative Agent POC to assist A8Z in representing the command
        on overarching AA support issues.
        4.3.2. As necessary, develop/staff command-command level MOAs with the sponsoring
        commands of any tenant organization or non-USAFE organization that is seeking support
        from USAFE.
USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                              7


     4.3.3. Co-chair (with A8ZC) the GSU/Activity Working Group to address GSU and
     NATO support issues.
  4.4. HQ USAFE/FMA will:
     4.4.1. Appoint an Administrative Agent POC to represent the command on budgetary
     support requirements.
  4.5. HQ USAFE Directorates will:
     4.5.1. Notify HQ USAFE/A8Z of any proposed USAFE organizational changes
     including additions, deletions, and significant modifications of GSUs.
     4.5.2. Designate a GSU support POC and alternate POC and provide the names of those
     POCs to HQ USAFE/A8Z. These individuals will address GSU support issues and attend
     the quarterly GSU and Activities Working Group as headquarters-level representatives of
     their directorates.
     4.5.3. Program for manpower and funding to support assigned GSUs as part of the
     regularly scheduled POM process.
     4.5.4. Oversee functional community support to GSU locations to ensure standardization
     of support being provided by DSWs.
     4.5.5. Provide guidance to functional managers to ensure inspection programs consider
     GSU size and capability.
     4.5.6. Assist HQ USAFE/A8Z and HQ USAFE/A4R with interservice or host nation
     GSU support issues.
     4.5.7. HQ USAFE/SG will assign a supporting Medical Treatment Facility (MTF) for
     each GSU (Limited Scope Medical Treatment Facilities (LSMTF), Medical Aid Stations
     (MAS), and GSU without LSMTF or MAS) within their AOR to assist specifically with
     the program requirements outlined in AFI 10-246, Food and Water Protection Program,
     AFI 48-144, Safe Drinking Water Surveillance Program, AFI 48-145, Occupational and
     Environmental Health Program, AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, and
     applicable USAFE supplements.
  4.6. Third Air Force (Air Forces EUROPE) Commander and Seventeenth Air Force (Air
  Forces Africa) Commander will:
     4.6.1. Ensure GSU considerations are included in the USAFE Master Planning process.
     4.6.2. Advocate resource allocation for overarching GSU and AA support issues.
     4.6.3. Provide guidance for all non USAFE-level GSU-related issues within their
     respective Numbered Air Force (NAF) that cannot be resolved at the wing level.
     4.6.4. Retain and exercise General Court-Martial (GCM) jurisdiction over all USAF
     personnel attached or assigned to GSUs located in their respective AOR IAW AFI 51-
     201, paragraph 2.4.
  4.7. USAFE Designated Support Wing Commanders will:
     4.7.1. Ensure all supported GSUs have adequate mission support, quality of life (QoL),
     and security to sustain and enhance morale.
8                                                     USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


    4.7.2. Establish and maintain a GSU support function within the wing’s existing
    organizational structure and manpower resources to act as a POC for all of the DSW’s
    supported GSUs. This POC will work with the GSUs to resolve/coordinate support issues
    that cannot be resolved through normal functional channels and act as a POC for HQ
    USAFE/A8ZC. The GSU support function should be comprised of at least one officer,
    senior NCO or civilian who maintains communication with the GSUs, is familiar with
    GSU issues, is knowledgeable of DSW organizations providing support to the GSUs, and
    able to coordinate required GSU support.
    4.7.3. Fully integrate their respective GSUs in the process of overall operational
    planning. All levels must consider not only the actual deployment of forces, but also the
    employment mission, expeditionary organization structure, command relationships, the
    reception of forces, pre-positioning strategies, host nation support, information systems,
    forward basing, en route infrastructure, and how the GSUs will be supported through the
    entire operations planning and execution process.
    4.7.4. Provide deployment preparation support to their respective GSUs. Preparation for
    movement can include (but is not limited to): review of personal service records and legal
    documents; medical processing to include updating inoculations; receipt of theater-
    specific organizational clothing and equipment; theater-specific cultural or environmental
    protection training; warrior skills, expeditionary combat skills, and special training; and
    weapons training.
    4.7.5. Be responsible for deployment planning and execution for supported GSUs.
    Ensure the DSW Installation Deployment Officer conducts the required support activities
    to enable assigned GSUs to plan, prepare, and execute deployments IAW Combatant
    Commander requirements. The unique relationships regarding deployment planning and
    execution between a DSW and a GSU must be documented and included in the DSW’s
    Installation Deployment Plan. For further guidance on support of deployment planning
    activities, refer to AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution.
    4.7.6. Ensure DSW exercise programs include the leadership from GSUs, DSW annexes,
    AA-assigned NATO units, minor installations, support sites, and detached activities.
    Exercise evaluation teams, Inspectors General or other exercise management agencies
    representing GSUs should be involved when determining the frequency and scope of the
    exercise program. USAFE requires that GSUs participate in their supporting DSW’s
    exercise program to the maximum extent possible.
    4.7.7. Ensure first-term Airmen assigned to supported GSUs are briefed by the First
    Term Airmen Center (FTAC) within 60 days of assignment.
    4.7.8. Ensure GSU personnel are included in all award and recognition programs, either
    through their DSW or parent units.
    4.7.9. Include GSU issues and requirements in Wing Master Planning or other applicable
    processes.
    4.7.10. Ensure medical units comply with the guidance established in AFI 10-246, AFI
    44-103, The Air Force Independent Duty Medical Technician Program, AFI 41-101,
    Obtaining Alternative Medical and Dental Care, AFI 48-144, AFI 48-145, AFI 48-148,
    and applicable USAFE supplements.
USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                              9


     4.7.11. Ensure that any organization or activity desiring to move onto a USAFE
     installation has COMUSAFE approval. Notify HQ USAFE/A8Z of any site surveys or
     requests for non-USAFE unit beddowns on wing facilities or any significant increase in
     the manpower or footprint of an existing non-USAFE tenant unit.
     4.7.12. Exercise court-martial jurisdiction over members of tenant unit or Air Force
     Element, whether designated as a unit or not, which are attached to them as host
     command IAW AFI 51-201, paragraph 2.4.
  4.8. Wing Functionals will:
     4.8.1. Program for manpower and funding to adequately support and sustain their
     assigned GSUs.
     4.8.2. When required, elevate appropriate GSU issues to USAFE functional
     representatives for resolution.
     4.8.3. Coordinate with the DSW’s GSU support functional office to ensure appropriate
     wing representatives regularly visit and communicate with the GSUs and the GSU
     support function to address support requirements.
     4.8.4. Ensure GSU issues and requirements are included in appropriate functional boards
     and committees (e.g., Financial Management Board, Community Action Information
     Board, Facilities Utilization Board, and Quarterly Awards).
     4.8.5. Coordinate issues, funding and manpower through the Wing GSU Support
     Function.
     4.8.6. Ensure base operations contract scope documents and contracts are modified for
     initial, increase, decrease, and termination of GSU support requirements.
  4.9. Wing Installation Support Agreement Managers (SAM) will:
     4.9.1. Ensure comprehensive triennial reviews are conducted for all interservice, intra-
     service, and interagency support agreements. Comprehensive reviews will include a
     complete review by each Functional Area Agreement Coordinator and Resource Advisor
     whose unit provides support in a specific support agreement, as well as a complete
     manpower, comptroller and legal review for every support agreement.
     4.9.2. Ensure annual macro-level support agreements reviews are conducted in
     conjunction with the required wing comptroller-conducted annual support agreement
     budget review. SAMs will ensure the macro-level review includes contacting the receiver
     POC and determining if scope of provided support has increased or decreased and that
     the support relationship as documented in the ISSA is current and accurate.
     4.9.3. Accomplish the appropriate support agreement after the MOA/MOU with the
     sponsoring command has been completed at HQ USAFE if command-command
     MOA/MOU was directed by HQ USAFE.
     4.9.4. Work directly with the wing GSU support function to determine the appropriate
     level of GSU support requirements.
10                                                    USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


     4.9.5. Accomplish an appropriate support agreement after the MOA/MOU with the
     sponsoring command has been completed at USAFE and an approved beddown request
     letter has been received from the wing GSU support function.
     4.9.6. At the request of the wing GSU support function, attend all wing level beddown
     meetings.
  4.10. GSUs will:
     4.10.1. Seek appropriate support from their host facility (i.e., DSW GSU Support Office,
     Army, Navy, or Host Nation military). GSU leadership will periodically review existing
     interservice or host nation support agreements through the wing SAMs and DSW GSU
     support function to ensure agreements are current and adequately support the mission.
     4.10.2. Ensure the readiness of assigned personnel/cargo and ensure the unit can meet all
     deployment requirements. For further guidance on support of deployment planning
     activities, refer to AFI 10-403.
     4.10.3. Coordinate with wing Demand Reduction Program Manager to ensure that
     urinalysis testing processes are in place for all active duty AF members.
     4.10.4. Comply with guidance in AFI 10-246, AFI 44-103, The Air Force Independent
     Duty Medical Technician Program, AFI 41-101, Obtaining Alternative Medical and
     Dental Care, AFI 48-144, AFI 48-145, AFI 48-148, and applicable USAFE supplements
     for GSU members’ medical and dental care requirements.
     4.10.5. Comply with guidance in AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary and Preventive
     Law Programs, to ensure legal readiness of GSU members.
     4.10.6. Comply with guidance in AFI 33-363, Communications and Information,
     Management of Records, AFI 33-364, Communications and Information, Records
     Disposition -- Procedures and Responsiblities and     AFRIMS RDS located at
     https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm to ensure GSU records are
     properly maintained.




                                          MARK O. SCHISSLER, Major General, USAF
                                          Director of Plans, Programs and Analyses
USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                          11


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 4000.19, Interservice and Intragovernmental Support
DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 11A, Reimbursable Operations, Policy and Procedures, May 2011
EUCOM C2 Policy, 231220Z Aug 05 (S)
AFPD 10-5, Basing, 26 Nov 1993
AFI 10-403, Deployment Planning and Execution, 13 Jan 2008
AFI 10-504, Overseas Basing Realignments, 18 Jan 1994
AFPD 25-2, Support Agreements, 1 Nov 2001
AFI 25-201, Support Agreements Procedures, 1 May 2005
AFI 25-201USAFE SUP 1, 7 Nov 2005
AFPAM 32-1004, Volume 3, Maintenance, Repair, and Modification to Real Property, 1 Sep 98
AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFS), 17 Jun 2002
AFI 33-322, Records Management Program, 7 Oct 2003
AFI 36-105, Civilian Personnel Servicing Arrangements, 22 Mar 94
AFI 41-101, Obtaining Alternative Medical and Dental Care, 1 Apr 96
AFI 44-103, The Air Force Independent Duty Medical Technician Program, 1 May 2005
AFI 33-363, Management of Records, 1 Mar 2008
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition Procedures and Responsiblities, 22 Dec 2006
AFI 51-504, Legal Assistance, Notary and Preventive Law Programs, 27 Oct 2003
AFI 65-601, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 Mar 2005
251307Z SEP 08 3AF ISR OPORD MOD 1(S)
Prescribed Forms
No forms are prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Abbreviations Acronyms and
AFI—-Air Force Instruction
AOR—-Area of Responsibility
BOS—- Base Operating Support
COMUSAFE—-Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
 12                                                    USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


DoD—-Department of Defense
DSW—-Designated Support Wing
FSS—-Force Support Squadron
GSU—-Geographically Separated Unit
HAF—-Headquarters Air Force
HQ—-Headquarters
IPR—- Installation Personnel Readiness
ISSA—- Interservice Support Agreement
LSMTF—- Limited Scope Medical Treatment Facilities
MAJCOM—-Major Command
MAS—-Medical Aid Stations
MOA—-Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—-Memorandum of Understanding
MTF—- Medical Treatment Facility
NAF—-Numbered Air Force
NATO—-North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OEH—-Occupational and Environmental Health
POC—-Point of Contact
POM—-Program Objective Memorandums
QoL—-Quality of Life
RAF—-Royal Air Force
SAM—-Support Agreement Manager
USAFE—-United States Air Forces in Europe

Terms
Activity. Any non—USAFE unit located on or supported by a USAFE base/installation (i.e., a
tenant) or any international unit for which USAFE is assigned Administrative Agent (AA). This
includes North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) units, United States European Command
(USEUCOM) functions, non-USAFE AF activities, non-AF Department of Defense (DoD)
activities, non—DoD US Government activities, and other non-US (i.e., international) activities
covered by a separate support agreement.
Administrative Agent. The service component designated by DoD 7000.14—R to budget for
and support the US military element attached to the designated international military
organization.
USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                   13


Annex.—For the purposes of this instruction, a USAFE Annex is a facility where: USAFE
personnel live or are permanently assigned to work, the purpose and functions performed are
integral to, are a major mission activity of, or are in direct support of the DSW and the
geographic separation from its DSW does not require a subordinate support command element
and headquarters to provide basic base support functions.
Designated Support Wing (DSW).—The USAFE Wing designated to address the majority of
GSU and activity support requirements for the units at the assigned locations. For the purposes of
this instruction, the following Wings are designated as DSWs: 100 ARW (RAF Mildenhall); 48
FW (RAF Lakenheath); 501 CSW (RAF Alconbury AB); 52 FW (Spangdahlem AB); 86 AW
(Ramstein AB); 31 FW (Aviano AB); and 39 ABW (Incirlik AB).
Detached Activity.—USAFE unit or NATO/other command activity with authorized personnel
with little/no real property.
Forward Operating Base (FOB). Semi—permanent installation used to support tactical
operations without fully established support facilities. Can be scalable, used for an extended time
period, and may contain prepositioned equipment. Back-up support by a MOB may be required.
An FOB may have real property accountability through ownership, lease, permit or other written
agreement for all real estate and facilities. FOBs that have agreements with foreign governments
which give the AF jurisdiction and control over real property meet this requirement.
Geographically Separated Unit (GSU).—For the purpose of this instruction, a USAFE unit that
is not located on its parent unit installation.
Minor Installations.—Facility operated by a USAFE unit of at least squadron size that does not
otherwise satisfy all the criteria for a DSW. A minor installation may have real property
accountability through ownership, lease, permit or other written agreement for all real estate and
facilities through agreements with foreign governments which give the AF jurisdiction and
control over real property.
Non—USAFE Personnel. Personnel who are assigned within the USAFE AOR, but who are not
USAFE assets. Some support is derived from their parent command, Administrative Agent, or
host installation. This instruction does not supersede these responsibilities or other support
agreements.
Other Command Unit.—Organization with no USAFE or NATO personnel.
Other Command Site. Location in the USAFE AOR, manned and operated by non—
USAFE personnel, including NATO personnel, that is not collocated with a USAFE DSW or
GSU.
Support Site.—Facility that provides general support to the USAFE mission and does not satisfy
the criteria for a DSW or minor installation.
Tenant Unit.—Any activity not assigned to the host wing.
 14                                                     USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                        Attachment 2
DESIGNATED SUPPORT WING (DSW), ANNEX, GEOGRAPHICALLY SEPARATED
          UNIT AND NON-USAFE UNIT SUPPORT ALIGNMENT

A2.1. The tables below identify support alignment between all USAFE supporting installations
and supported annexes, GSUs and non-USAFE units. This list does not represent a chain of
command nor lists the locations of all non-USAFE units. Also, it depicts the locations where the
MAJORITY of support will be provided to GSUs units by the identified DSW. Note: It may be
more cost effective for some functions to be supported by a different DSW. Specific USAFE
support to NATO units is dependent on which component has Administrative Agent
responsibilities. Support to other units will be location and unit-specific. For specific USAFE
units/GSUs, see the USAFE A8Z Web site at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af/USAF/ep/globalTab.do?channelPageId=sA4057E1F27CDF7B60127D6F7006E02BD .
A2.2. Administrative Agent. DoD Financial Management Regulation (FMR, DoDI 7000.14R)
directs specific service components to provide non-reimbursable base operating support (BOS)
to specific locations where U.S. military elements are assigned to international military
organizations (i.e. NATO). Non-reimbursable BOS provided must be consistent with the same
level of support that the supplier provides to their own forces. In the tables below, locations
where USAFE is designated as the Administrative Agent are annotated AA. Locations where
another service is designated the Administrative Agent are annotated AF. At those locations,
USAFE provides AF-specific support (flight physicals, deployment training, etc.) to AF
personnel.
A2.3. United Kingdom Installations. Each UK DSW provides services that are not provided by
the others. For example, 501 CSW is the single point-of-contact for resolving all GSU support
issues within the UK and Norway, providing services based on subordinate host unit capability
and managing 60 support agreements for non-USAFE activities. 100 ARW provides Civilian and
Military Personnel services, Information Assurance, Computer Security, and Manpower Services
to the other MOBs, GSUs and non-USAFE activities. 48 FW supplements GSU support in the
UK by providing a percentage of medical, communications and all CATM and explosive
ordnance disposal support.
A2.4. Other Supported Units include other MAJCOM units (e.g. AMC or ACC), Agencies or
DoD offices that request specific services/functions from USAFE.

Table A2.1. 31 FW (Aviano Air Base).
                                          Annex
                                 Support Areas 1 through 6
                                  Supported USAFE Unit
        Minor         Forward Operating       Support Site             Detached Activities
      Installation          Base
 --                  --                   Camp Darby-Livorno        Gaeta
                                          Camp Ederle-Vicenza       Linate (Malpensa)
                                          Ghedi                     Naples
                                          Papa AB (SAC              Tanagra
                                          HAW)                      Tel Aviv
USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                 15


                                                                    Vicenza
                                    NATO Supported Unit
 --                --                     --                        LarissaAF
                                                                    LatinaAF
                                                                    LisbonAF
                                                                    MilanAF
                                                                    NaplesAF
                                                                    Poggio RenaticoAF
                                                                    RomeAF
                                                                    ValenciaAF
                                    Other Supported Unit
 --                --                      --                       Amendola
                                                                    Araxos
                                                                    Athens
                                                                    Cairo
                                                                    Cambrai
                                                                    Ghedi
                                                                    Lisbon
                                                                    Naples
                                                                    Papa AB (NAMSA)
                                                                    Pisa
                                                                    Rome
                                                                    NAS Sigonella
                                                                    San Vito
                                                                    Tel Aviv (Ben Gurion
                                                                    Airport)
                                                                    Trapani/Trapani Birgi
                                                                    Vicenza
 NOTE(S):
 1
   Approved for divestiture.
 AA
    AF is designated Administrative Agent.
 AF
    Another service is designated Administrative Agent; support is AF-specific to AF personnel.

Table A2.2. 39 ABW (Incirlik Air Base).
                                       Annex
                               Yumurtalik Sea Terminal1
                                Supported USAFE Unit
     Minor          Forward Operating      Support Site                Detached Activities
   Installation           Base
 Izmir             --                  --                           Istanbul
 Ankara
                                    NATO Supported Unit
 --                --                     --                        AnkaraAA
                                                                    IstanbulAA
                                                                    IzmirAA
 16                                                        USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                   Other Supported Unit
--                 --                     --                            Ankara
NOTE(S):
1
  Approved for divestiture.
AA
   AF is designated Administrative Agent.

Table A2.3. 100 ARW (RAF Mildenhall).1
                                          Annex
                                           None
                                   Supported USAFE Unit
   Minor               Forward Operating      Support Site                 Detached Activities
 Installation                Base
RAF Alconbury         --                  --
                                        Other Supported Unit
                                                                        RAF Akrotiri2
                                                                                        3
                                                                        RAF Fylingdales
                                                                        NAS Souda Bay2
NOTE(S):
1
  Medical, contracting and explosive ordnance disposal support from RAF Lakenheath.
2
  Specified ADCON (SEE 3 AF OPORD)
3
    RAF Fylingdales will transfer under the 501 CSW upon completion of a new Support Agreement.

Table A2.4. 48 FW RAF Lakenheath (RAF Lakenheath).1
                                          Annex
                                        RAF Feltwell
                                   Supported USAFE Unit
       Minor           Forward Operating      Support Site                 Detached Activities
     Installation            Base
--                    --                  --                        --
NOTE(S):
1
  Medical, contracting and explosive ordnance disposal support to RAF Mildenhall and its
supported installations/activities.

Table A2.5. 501 CSW (RAF Alconbury).1
                                          Annex
                                           None
                                   Supported USAFE Unit
   Minor               Forward Operating      Support Site                 Detached Activities
 Installation                Base
RAF Alconbury         --                  RAF Molesworth                Kolsas
                                          RAF Upwood                    Bodo
                                          Stavanger                     Heathrow
                                                                        London
RAF Menwith           --                       --                       --
Hill
USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                        17


RAF              RAF Fairford            RAF Welford            --
Croughton1
                                 NATO Supported Unit
--               --                    --                       StavangerAA
--               --                    --                       NorthwoodAA
                                                                PortsmouthAA
                                                                RNAS YeoviltonAA
                                                                GloucesterAA
                                 Other Supported Unit
--               --                     --                      RAF Molesworth
--               --                     --                      RAF Digby
--               --                     --                      2 Providence Court
                                                                Blenheim Crescent
                                                                Boscombe Down
                                                                Bristol
                                                                Chicksands
                                                                Conningsby
                                                                Cottesmore
                                                                Cranwell
                                                                Honington
                                                                Leeming
                                                                Lincoln
                                                                London
                                                                Lyneham
                                                                Marham
                                                                Oakhanger
                                                                RAF Brize Norton
                                                                RAF Corsham
                                                                RAF Feltwell
                                                                RAF Fylingdales2
                                                                RAF Henlow
                                                                RAF High Wycombe
                                                                Salisbury
                                                                Southampton
                                                                Waddington
                                                                Watchfield
NOTE(S):
1
  Includes supported units. 501 CSW is lead for 100 ARW for GSU support in UK and
Norway.
2
  RAF Fylingdales will transfer under the 501 CSW upon completion of a new Support
Agreement.
AA
    AF is designated Administrative Agent.
 18                                                    USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011


Table A2.6. 86 AW (Ramstein Air Base).
                                         Annex
                                      Einsiedlerhof
                                       Kapaun AS
                                       Vogelweh
                                       Landstuhl
                                Supported USAFE Unit
       Minor        Forward Operating        Support Site             Detached Activities
     Installation          Base
--                  Moron AB             Chievres                  Bann 02
                                         Grafenwoehr               Baumholder
                                         Heidelberg                Bucharest
                                         Katterbach                Coleman Barracks
                                         Mannheim                  Darmstadt
                                         Sembach Kaserne           Frankfurt IAP
                                         Stuttgart-Vaihingen       Hohenfels
                                         Vilseck                   Illesheim
                                         Wiesbaden                 Madrid
                                                                   Patch Barracks
                                                                   Sandhoven
                                   NATO Supported Unit
--                  --                   --                        Albacete/Los Llanos AB1
                                                                   BydgoszczAF
                                                                   HeidelbergAF
                                                                   MadridAF
                                                                   RamsteinAA
                                   Other Supported Unit
--                  --                    --                       Copenhagen
                                                                   Grafenwoehr
                                                                   Madrid
                                                                   Moron
                                                                   Nathan Hale
                                                                   Oberammergau
                                                                   Rota
                                                                   Wiesbaden
                                                                   Zaragoza
NOTE(S):
1
  Tactical Leadership Program, a USAFE initiative in support of NATO. No service designated
Administrative Agent.
AA
   AF is designated Administrative Agent.
AF
   Another service is designated Administrative Agent; support is AF-specific to AF personnel.
USAFEI10-505 2 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                19


Table A2.7. 52 FW (Spangdahlem Air Base).
                                        Annex
                                        Bitburg
                                     Supported Unit
       Minor         Forward Operating      Support Site             Detached Activities
     Installation          Base
--                  --                  Buchel                    Amsterdam
                                        Geilenkirchen             Bremerhaven
                                        Kleine Brogel             Brunssum
                                        Volkel                    Brussels
                                                                  Rotterdam
                                                                  SHAPE
                                                                  Siegenburg
                                  NATO Supported Unit
--                  --                  --                        BrunssumAF
                                                                  BrusselsAF
                                                                  GeilenkirchenAA
                                                                  GlonsAF
                                                                  Kalkar/UedemAA
                                                                  Paris Nuelly-sur-SeineAA
                                                                  MonsAF
                                  Other Supported Unit
--                  --                   --                       Brussels
                                                                  Buchel
                                                                  Eindhoven
                                                                  Mons
                                                                  Orleans
                                                                  Paris
NOTE(S):
AA
   AF is designated Administrative Agent.
AF
  Another service is designated Administrative Agent; support is AF-specific to AF personnel
