BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                     INSTRUCTION 52-104
EUROPE (USAFE)
                                                                             20 AUGUST 2008
                                                Incorporating Change 1, 10 SEPTEMBER 2009
                                                           Certified current 10 December 2012
                                                                                     Chaplain

                                            CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/HC                                                  Certified by: HQ USAFE/HC
                                                                (SMSgt Alton B. Clemmons III)
Supersedes: USAFEI52-104, 28 June 2006                                               Pages: 8



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 52-1, Chaplain Service. It
supports policy and guidance of Department of Defense Instruction (DODI) 1402.5, Criminal
History Background Checks on Individuals in Child Care Services, and Air Force Instruction
(AFI) 31-501 USAFE Supplement, Personnel Security Program Management. This instruction
provides guidance and procedure for implementation of Child Care National Agency Check and
Inquiries (CNACI) and Installation Records Check (IRC) to all contractors and volunteers
involved in chapel-sponsored programs. It applies to all United States Air Forces in Europe
(USAFE) wings and installations. This instruction does not apply to the Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) and the Air National Guard (ANG) units. Send comments and suggested
improvements to this publication on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication,
to USAFE Command Chaplain Directorate (HQ USAFE/HC), Unit 3050 Box 50, APO AE
09094. Ensure that any local publications, instructions or supplements are created in accordance
with AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS): https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
2                                 USAFEI52-104 20 AUGUST 2008 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This Interim change clarifies current guidance regarding criminal history background checks for
the chapel program volunteers - see changed paragraphs 4.1.1. through 4.1.2.2. Revisions are
indicated by a vertical bar (|) in the left margin.

Section A—General Information

1. Reference. As prescribed in DODI 1402.5 and AFI 31-501 USAFE Supplement, background
checks/investigations are required for all individuals involved in child care services who have
regular contact with children under 18 years of age. This includes, but is not limited to, chapel
contractors paid with appropriated or Chapel Tithes and Offering Funds (CTOF) and volunteers
involved in any chapel-sponsored program.
2. Purpose. The purpose of this instruction is to outline the process and requirements to
accomplish the CNACI and IRC. Parents entrust their children to chapel staff and volunteers
with the understanding that they will be safe and professionally supervised while involved in
chapel activities. It is essential that all personnel with this responsibility comply with all
mandated requirements and take every reasonable precaution to insure that contractors and
volunteers working with chapel youth meet every standard.

Section B—Minimum Investigation Requirements

3. Contractors. All United States (U.S.) contractors, appropriated and CTOF, must complete a
CNACI and IRC. These requirements must be included in all contracts and Statements of Work
(SOW) for contractors who will have greater than incidental contact with youth under 18 years
of age. Upon favorable completion of the IRC, contractors may perform duties pending
completion and favorable adjudication of a submitted CNACI, provided they are within line-of-
sight supervision of an individual with a favorably completed CNACI and IRC at all times. For
the purposes of this instruction, “line-of-sight” is defined as a direct optical path between
CNACI/IRC certified personnel and those pending CNACI/IRC approval. “Line-of-sight” can
be achieved either through physical or electronic means. In all cases, contractors may not
perform duties without supervision until favorable completion of both a CNACI and IRC. See
also, paragraph 9.2
4. Volunteers.
    4.1. Volunteers are individuals who donate their time in support of chapel programs.
    Volunteers are broken down into two distinct categories: specified volunteers and all other
    volunteers. Each category has its own requirements.
       4.1.1. Specified Volunteer Positions.     The Installation Commander, upon the
       Wing/Installation Chaplain's recommendation, designates these positions in writing.
           4.1.1.1. Specified volunteer positions are defined as those whose contact with youth
           is extensive, frequent, or over a period of time. They include, but are not limited to,
           extensive interaction alone, extended travel, and/or overnight activities.
           4.1.1.2. Individuals in these positions require an IRC and Federal Bureau of
           Investigation (FBI) fingerprint check.
USAFEI52-104 20 AUGUST 2008 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                  3


           4.1.1.3. If these volunteers meet the requirements established in DoDI 1402.5, a
           CNACI is not required.
           4.1.1.4. Upon favorable completion of the IRC, volunteers may provide services.
           4.1.1.5. While awaiting IRC completion, volunteers may provide services ONLY
           when they are within line-of-sight supervision of an individual with a favorably
           completed IRC at all times.
       4.1.2. All other volunteers. These volunteers are not specified in writing and may
       perform duties provided they have a favorably completed IRC, OR are within line-of-
       sight of an individual with a favorably completed IRC at all times.
           4.1.2.1. This category of volunteers has less extensive and less frequent contact with
           children than those serving in specified volunteer positions (paragraph 4.1.1.).
           4.1.2.2. Background checks are not required for volunteers whose services will be of
           shorter duration than is required to perform the background checks. For example, if
           the background check process requires a 14-day period and the event is only for 3
           days, then the background check is not required. Requirements in paragraph 4.1.2.
           still apply regardless of program duration.
   4.2. Active Duty Military/U.S. Civilian Employee. Active duty military members and U.S.
   civilian employees may serve as line-of-sight supervisors for contractors and all volunteers
   provided they have adjudicated a favorable IRC and obtained a favorable personnel security
   investigation. An IRC is required for all Chaplain Service staff members.

Section C—Investigations

5. Contracts and Statements of Work: All contracts and SOWs shall include a requirement
for background investigations if the position requires any contact with children under the age of
18. They shall further state that any negative CNACI shall result in the immediate termination of
the contract. A CNACI will be initiated and processed through your local Security Forces
Authorized Requestor office using AF Form 2583, Request for Personnel Security Action.
6. CNACI. Reference AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, Attachment 23
for instructions on correctly completing AF Form 2583. Additionally, in Section II, Block 8,
“Investigation Requirement,” select “National Agency Check (NAC).” In Section VII, Block 30,
“Remarks,” insert, “Child Care National Agency Check and Inquiries (CNACI)”.
7. IRC. An IRC must cover the most recent two year period and shall include, at a minimum,
Security Forces local files check, Drug and Alcohol Program, Family Housing, Medical
Treatment Facility for Family Advocacy Program to include mental health records, and any other
record checks as appropriate to the extent permitted by law.

Section D—Funding

8. Costs Associated. Major commands (MAJCOM) fund all costs associated with CNACI
investigations. MAJCOM funds are withheld by the Air Force through the Fiscal Year Defense
Program for personnel security investigations and are at no direct charge to the chapel
appropriated fund or CTOF.
4                                 USAFEI52-104 20 AUGUST 2008 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


Section E—Findings and Disposition of Records

9. Procedures. All wing or installation chaplains will develop a local operating instruction (OI)
to implement background investigations (Sample in Attachment 2). Wing or installation
chaplains must ensure all volunteers and contractors working with children complete the
respective background investigation.
    9.1. Negative IRC. Any negative IRC will result in immediate termination of volunteer
    and/or contractual service. This statement must be included in all contracts and SOWs.
    9.2. Negative CNACI. Any negative CNACI will result in immediate termination of
    volunteer and/or contractual service. This statement must be included in all contracts and
    SOWs.
    9.3. Volunteer records are maintained in an active file during the period of time the
    volunteer is active with the chapel program. Records are maintained in an inactive file for
    two years after the volunteer is no longer involved in the chapel program.
    9.4. Contractor records are maintained in the contract folder during the period of time the
    contract is active. Upon termination of the contract, the records are attached to the final
    payment voucher and staged according to Air Force disposition instructions.
    9.5. Forms Adopted. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; AF Form
    2583, Request for Personnel Security Action.




                                            SCOTT R. GARDNER, Chaplain, Colonel, USAF
                                            Command Chaplain
USAFEI52-104 20 AUGUST 2008 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDI 1402.5., Criminal History Background Checks on Individuals in Child Care Services, 19
January 1993
AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Service, 2 October 2006
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 January 2005 and USAFE
Supplement, 30 June 2006
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CNACI—Child Care National Agency Check and Inquiries
CTOF—Chapel Tithes and Offering Fund
IRC—Installation Record Check
MAJCOM—Major Command
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
OI—Operating Instruction
SOW—Statement of Work
RE—Religious Education
U.S.—United States
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
6                                 USAFEI52-104 20 AUGUST 2008 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


                                         Attachment 2
                       HC OPERATING INSTRUCTION EXAMPLE

Figure A2.1. Sample for a local operating instruction.
BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  XXX Operating Instruction 52-XXX
XX ABW/HC or
XX Air Base, United Kingdom                                                       2 JULY 2008
                                                                                      Chaplain


                               SECURITY CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS
                                            RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROCEDURES


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY
ACCESSIBILITY: This publication is electronically available at: xxxxxxxx
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
OPR: “Office Symbol”                                           Certified by: “Office Symbol”
                                                                            (Grade and Name)
                                                                                    Pages: XX


This Chaplain (HC) Operating Instruction (HCOI) implements Air Force Policy Directive
(AFPD) 52-1, Chaplain Service. It supports policy and guidance in Department of Defense
Instruction (DODI 1402.5, Criminal History Background Checks on Individuals in Child Care
Services, and AFI 31-501 USAFE Supplement, Personnel Security Program Management.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS): https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
1. Purpose: This OI establishes procedures for the administration and processing of criminal
history background checks on all personnel who work directly with or around children under the
age of 18. All personnel involved with programs either directly or indirectly, in positions of
leadership or worker, in paid positions or volunteer, will be familiar with this OI.
2. Responsibilities:
    2.1. The Noncommissioned Officer in Charge (NCOIC), Program Support, maintains the
    background investigation program. Quarterly reviews of teacher and volunteer logs validate
    that background checks are current and up to date.
    2.2. Religious Education (RE) coordinators and program chaplains will maintain a list of
    current volunteers who work with children under 18 years of age.
USAFEI52-104 20 AUGUST 2008 10 SEPTEMBER 2009                                                       7


   2.3. Program chaplains ensure that all programs maintain a list of current volunteers and are
   constantly updated. Programs include, but are not limited to, RE, children’s church, nursery,
   children’s choirs, youth workers, chaperons for events, etc.
   2.4. RE coordinators and program chaplains will ensure current background investigations
   are conducted for each volunteer, and that results are on file.
   2.5. Results are maintained by the NCOIC, Program Support.
3. Requirements:
   3.1. Staff member is defined as an individual who is serving as an active duty or reserve
   military member assigned and/or attached to XX ABW/HC.
   3.2. Use Security Forces Installation Record Check (IRC) form to conduct investigations.
   3.3. Results are valid for the length of individual’s assignment.
   3.4. Volunteers consist of those individuals who donate their time in chapel programs and
   ministries. They may be military members, dependents, retirees, members from para-church
   ministries, or local nationals.
4. Procedures:
   4.1. Installation Records Check (IRC): IRC will consist of coordination with the following
   agencies:
       4.1.1. Security Forces.
       4.1.2. Family Advocacy.
       4.1.3. Life Skills.
       4.1.4. Demand Reduction Office.
   4.2. Child Care National Agency Check and Inquiries (CNACI): Individuals must
   coordinate the entire process with the chapel’s security manager.
   4.3. National Agency Check Local National (NACLN): Individuals must coordinate the
   entire process with the chapel’s security manager.
5. Statement of Work (SOW): SOW must include a statement reflecting the background
investigation requirements if the position requires greater than incidental contact with children
under the age of 18.



                                                     JANE DOE, Ch, Lt Col, USAF
                                                     Wing Chaplain
8                                 USAFEI52-104 20 AUGUST 2008 10 SEPTEMBER 2009


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION


References
DoDI 1402.5, Criminal History Background Checks on Individuals in Child Care Services, 19
January 1993
AFPD 52-1, Chaplain Service, 2 October 2006
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 January 2005 and the USAFE
Supplement, 30 June 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Abbreviations and Acronyms
IRC--Installations Record Check
NCOIC--Noncommissioned Officer in Charge
OI--Operating Instruction
RE--Religious Education
SOW--Statement of Work
