IC-1 TO USAFAI36-2005, Readmission of Former USAF Academy Cadets

28 FEBRUARY 2013

*Certified by: HQ USAFA/RRS (Dr. Phillip D. Prosseda)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates paragraph 4.5.4. A margin bar (|) indicates revisions from the
previous edition.

*4.5.4. If athletically deficient (less than a 2.00 cumulative Physical Education Average or
Physical Fitness Test average below 200 points/F grade) before leaving the Academy, former
cadets must demonstrate the ability to successfully complete the athletic requirements of the
Academy's course of instruction. As a minimum, address the following three requirements: 1)
The Admissions Liaison Officer (ALO) must administer the USAFA Physical Fitness Test (PFT)
and Aerobics Fitness Test (AFT). Prior to the administering these fitness assessments the ALO
must contact the Academy Fitness Testing and Evaluation Division (USAFA/ADPVT) for
specific guidance pertaining to the proper administration of the USAFA cadet PFT and AFT; 2)
provide ADPVT a detailed summary of all physical fitness activity (i.e. fitness training
plan/results, frequency of exercise, athletic/sports participation, etc.) that occurred following
disenrollment from the Academy; 3) provide a written assessment from a certified sports
physiologist that addresses anaerobic/aerobic physical conditioning level and height/weight
measurements. ADPVT will review the responses to these requirements and provide the former
cadet panel board members an athletic aptitude assessment as it pertains to meeting USAFA
athletic graduation requirements.
BY ORDER OF THE                                              HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                              ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-2005

                                                                            27 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                           READMISSION OF FORMER USAF
                                                                      ACADEMY CADETS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/RRS                                                            Certified by: USAFA/RR
                                                                           (Col Carolyn Benyshek)
Supersedes:    USAFAI 36-2005,                                                            Pages: 6
               19 November 2004


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-20, Accession of Air Force
Military Personnel, and establishes the readmission requirements of former United States Air
Force Academy (USAFA) cadets who were administratively separated for certain specified
reasons. It applies to all USAFA personnel. This publication does not apply to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.                See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information. This publication requires
the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised. It must be reviewed in its entirety.
1. Eligibility Requirements. Former cadets who are reappointed by the Academy Board must
meet all basic eligibility requirements listed in AFI36-2019, Appointment to the United States Air
Force Academy, with the following exception. They may exceed the age requirement (not
having passed their 23d birthday on 1 July of the year of reentry), if, through normal progress
 2                                                     USAFAI36-2005 27 SEPTEMBER 2012


toward graduation, they are projected not to have passed their 27th birthday on 1 July of the year
of graduation.
     1.1. Former cadets meeting the criteria in paragraph 2 are not normally eligible for
     readmission and will not be permitted to reapply. The Director of Admissions may make
     exceptions to the reapplication policy and allow former cadets meeting the criteria of
     paragraph 2 to apply for readmission on a case-by-case basis.
2. Restrictions on Who May Be Readmitted.
     2.1. A cadet who is reported as deficient in conduct or course of instruction and
     recommended to be discharged from the USAF Academy may not, unless recommended by
     the Academy Board, be returned or reappointed to the USAF Academy reference Title 10
     United States Code Armed Forces 9351a (10 U.S.C. 9351a).
     2.2. The Academy Board will not normally readmit a cadet separated from the USAF
     Academy for the following reasons:
        2.2.1. When dismissal was the result of trial by courts-martial.
        2.2.2. The cadet was separated from the Academy via a process conducted by any of the
        Boards, Committees, and Hearings for Evaluating Cadet Disenrollments as described in
        AFI 36-2020, Disenrollment of United States Air Force Academy Cadets (or its
        successor).
        2.2.3. The cadet resigned in lieu of (RILO) during disenrollment proceedings or after a
        recommendation for disenrollment, which resulted from a process conducted by any of
        the Boards, Committees, and Hearings for Evaluating Cadet Disenrollments as described
        in AFI 36-2020, Disenrollment of United States Air Force Academy Cadets (or its
        successor).
        2.2.4. Discharge characterized as General or under other than honorable conditions.
        2.2.5. Deficiency in conduct which results in a "definitely not recommended" for
        precommissioning training as reflected on the DD Form 785, (Section IV, Block 5),
        Record of Disenrollment from Officer Candidate-Type Training.
        2.2.6. Violations of the Cadet Honor Code.
        2.2.7. Court adjudicated or admitted paternity or maternity, which results in a legal
        obligation to support a child or children.
        2.2.8. Fear of flying as a passenger.
3. Former Cadet Review Panel. The purpose of this panel is to review records of former
cadets who apply for readmission and to make recommendations to the Director of Admissions
(HQ USAFA/RR). The panel consists of the Chief, Selections Division (HQ USAFA/RRS) who
acts as chairperson, the Associate Dean for Student Academic Affairs and Academy Registrar
(USAFA/DFR) representative, Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW) representative, Director of
Athletics (USAFA/AD) representative, and another Selections Division member who will act as
the panel recorder (non-voting member).
USAFAI36-2005 27 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                               3




4. How Former Cadets Reapply and Requirements for Reappointment:
   4.1. The Chief of Selections (HQ USAFA/RRS) determines which application forms and
   processing procedures are needed.
   4.2. All former cadets must write a letter to HQ USAFA/RRS to request readmission. The
   letter from former cadets requesting a return at the start of the spring term (January) must
   arrive in HQ USAFA/RRS no later than 30 September. The letter for former cadets
   requesting a return for the summer or fall terms (June-August) must arrive in HQ
   USAFA/RRS no later than 31 December. The exact requirements of the letter will be
   specified      in     the    “Instructions     to     Former       Cadets”      posted    at
   http://www.academyadmissions.com. HQ USAFA/RR will determine if the former cadet
   meets eligibility requirements to reapply and notify the former cadet. Approval to reapply
   does not guarantee readmission.
   4.2.1. Former cadets who disenrolled prior to completion of the fall term of their freshman
   year must write a letter to USAFA Admissions (HQ USAFA/RRS) as specified in paragraph
   4.2. If the former cadet meets eligibility requirements to reapply, the former cadet will
   complete a full application and compete for entry with the incoming class. If reappointed,
   the former cadet must enter the incoming class at the start of Basic Cadet Training.
      4.2.2. Former cadets from other US service academies must write a letter to USAFA
      Admissions (HQ USAFA/RRS) as specified in paragraph 4.2. If the former cadet meets
      eligibility requirements to apply, the former cadet will complete a full application and
      compete for entry with the incoming class. If reappointed, the former cadet must enter
      the incoming class at the start of Basic Cadet Training.
   4.3. If approved to reapply for reentry in the spring term (January), all admission materials
   must be received in HQ USAFA/RRS no later than 31 October. If approved to reapply for
   reentry in the summer or fall terms, all admission materials must be received in HQ
   USAFA/RRS no later than 31 January.
   4.4. Former cadets must obtain a valid nomination for the current admission cycle to be
   eligible for reappointment.
   4.5. Former cadets who were academically or physically deficient at the time of departure
   who wish to reapply for an appointment must demonstrate the ability to successfully
   complete the USAF Academy curriculum. As a minimum, they should:
      4.5.1. Demonstrate the ability to successfully complete an academic load and course mix
      similar to that offered at the USAF Academy (minimum of 15 semester hours or full-time
      equivalent) at an accredited college or university. Courses must be taken during the same
      semester at a single college or university. Courses completed via the internet will not be
      accepted.
      4.5.2. Recomplete all failed USAF Academy courses (equivalent or similar) with a grade
      of B or better. Questions regarding the equivalency of courses should be resolved in
      consultation with the USAFA academic departments having jurisdiction over the failed
      courses. Individual academic departments retain the prerogative to award transfer credit.
 4                                                    USAFAI36-2005 27 SEPTEMBER 2012


        4.5.3. Select new courses with regard to their relevance to the USAF Academy
        curriculum so that transfer credit might be granted.
        4.5.4. If physically deficient (less than a 2.00 cumulative Physical Education Average or
        Physical Fitness tests below standards) before leaving the Academy, former cadets must
        demonstrate the ability to complete the physical requirements of the Academy’s course of
        instruction by taking the Physical Fitness Test (PFT) administered by an Admissions
        Liaison Officer (ALO).
        4.5.5. Take Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) courses, where available, and
        complete with a grade of B or better.
NOTE: In addition to going through the normal competitive admissions process again, former
cadets must have an overall cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) equal to or greater than 2.00
(USAF Academy plus civilian college). The grades for failed Academy courses that are repeated
at a civilian school will replace the failed grade from the Air Force Academy. Fulfilling all the
above requirements does not guarantee readmission to the USAF Academy.
5. Medical Requirements.
     5.1. Former cadets must be medically cleared by the Aerospace Medicine Squadron (10
     AMDS) to be eligible for reappointment.
     5.2. All former cadets will complete a USAFA Medical Questionnaire and return it to
     USAFA Admissions. Admissions will forward the questionnaire to the USAFA medical
     authority (10 AMDS) for review.
     5.3. If requested by 10 AMDS, former cadets will provide additional medical information.
     This information will be provided directly to the 10 AMDS at the physical address or e-mail
     address provided by the 10 AMDS.
     5.4. Former cadets who will be away from USAFA for more than 2.5 years from date of
     disenrollment to date of return require a new Department of Defense Medical Evaluation
     Review Board (DoDMERB) medical evaluation. The HQ USAFA/RRS will determine if the
     former cadet needs a medical evaluation and forward the former cadet’s pertinent
     information to DoDMERB for scheduling.
6. The Former Cadet Review and Reappointment Process:
     6.1. The Former Cadet Review Panel evaluates the records of qualified former cadets and
     makes a recommendation to the Director of Admissions. This review will include
     consideration of the circumstances under which the cadet departed or was separated from the
     Academy, reasons for wanting to return, record as a cadet, and activity and performance
     since departure.
        6.1.1. If a cadet was athletically deficient (less than a 2.00 cumulative Physical
        Education Average) prior to leaving the Academy, the cadet athletic history must be
        reviewed and approved by Cadet Physical Fitness (HQ USAFA/ADP) prior to
        readmission.
        6.1.2. The USAFA/DFR will recommend to the Director of Admissions, the date of
        return, class to which reassigned, projected date of graduation, and any other conditions
USAFAI36-2005 27 SEPTEMBER 2012                                                               5


     of reappointment. The USAFA/DFR will coordinate any summer training or academics
     with USAFA/CW before making its recommendation.
  6.2. The Director of Admissions will determine which former cadets to present to the
  Academy Board for final review after considering the Former Cadet Panel’s
  recommendation. The Academy Board will make the final decision to reappoint a former
  cadet.
  6.3. Former cadets who departed the Academy in January, or who must return in January to
  meet graduation age requirements, will be considered in December. Those applying to return
  in the summer or fall term will normally be considered in late April.
  6.3.1. Former cadets who disenrolled prior to completion of the fall term of their freshman
  year, will compete for admission with the incoming class and if reappointed will enter at the
  start of Basic Cadet Training.
     6.3.2. Former cadets from other service academies will compete for admission with the
     incoming class and if appointed enter at the start of Basic Cadet Training.
     6.3.3. Former cadets who completed the fall term of their freshman year, but did not
     complete the spring term, may reenter at the spring term of the freshman year based on
     the Former Cadet Panel’s recommendation.
  6.4. All former cadets that have been approved to reapply and who submit complete
  applications will be notified of their reappointment status by the Chief, Selections Division,
  HQ USAFA/RRS. Those applying for readmission in the spring term will be notified in
  December. Those applying to return in the summer or fall terms will be notified in late April
  or May.
  6.5. If the former cadet accepts the reappointment, HQ USAFA/RRS will coordinate with
  the Chief, Cadet Examinations and Records (USAFA/DFRR) and Summer Scheduling
  (USAFA/CW) on the date of return and in-processing requirements and then inform the
  former cadet. HQ USAFA/RRS will prepare travel orders and notify Personnel (HQ
  USAFA/A1). HQ USAFA/A1 will inprocess former cadets who are not scheduled to enter
  Basic Cadet Training. HQ USAFA/RRS will ensure former cadets who enter Basic Cadet
  Training are inprocessed with the new class.




                                           CAROLYN A. M. BENYSHEK, Col, USAF
                                           Director of Admissions
 6                                                USAFAI36-2005 27 SEPTEMBER 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-2019, Appointment to the United States Air Force Academy
AFI 36-2020, Disenrollment of United States Air Force Academy Cadets
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel
Title 10 United States Code Armed Forces 9351a (10 U.S.C. 9351A)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 785, Record of Disenrollment from Officer Candidate-Type Training

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
DoDMERB—Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board
GPA—Grade Point Average
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RILO—Resigned in Lieu Of
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
