BY ORDER OF THE                                            HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                            ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-2008

                                                                        15 DECEMBER 2009
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 4 April 2013

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                               CADET SPONSOR PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/CWTM                                                      Certified by: USAFA/CWT
                                                                         (Col Michael A. Pipan)
Supersedes:   USAFAI36-2008,                                                           Pages: 5
              10 March 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-20, Accession of Air Force
Military Personnel, 23 December 2008. This instruction outlines the procedures governing the
Cadet Sponsor Program and applies to everyone involved in this program. Refer recommended
changes and conflicts between this and other publications to, the Commandant of Cadets (CW),
Sponsor Program (CWTM), 2354 Fairchild Drive, Suite 4A14, USAF Academy CO 80840 on
Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the AFRIMS
Records     Disposition     Schedule     (RDS)      located    at    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates CW policy on Squadron AOC and AMT eligibility to sponsor
cadets. It also moves prescribed and adopted forms to Attachment 1. A margin bar (|) indicates
revisions from the previous edition.
1. Cadet Sponsor Program: The United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) Cadet Sponsor
Program encourages active duty, retired and reserve officers, senior noncommissioned officers,
USAFA alumni, and Department of Defense (DoD) civilians to become mentors to cadets.
Through this personal involvement, cadets interact with individuals who counsel and advise
them on military life and the positive aspects of a military career. The program gives first
 2                                                       USAFAI36-2008 15 DECEMBER 2009


priority to personnel associated with the military, but may accept non-DoD affiliated members as
well.
2. Defining the Program: The Cadet Sponsor Program exposes cadets to the military lifestyle
and positive adult role models, while providing them with a home away from home. Sponsors
should develop an individual, yet professional, relationship with their cadets. This interaction is
essential to the cadets’ professional and social development. Cadets and sponsors may make by-
name requests for their sponsor or cadet, and CWTM will attempt to honor the requests. Cadet
requests have priority. If by-name requests are not made, CWTM uses common interest criteria
to match cadets with sponsors.
3. Determining Eligible Hosts and Sponsors:
     3.1. Residence Area. It is recommended that Cadet Sponsors reside in the greater Colorado
     Springs area; i.e., south to Fountain, north to Palmer Lake, west to Manitou Springs, and east
     to Marksheffel Road.
     3.2. Marital Status, Gender, and Age. Single sponsors may only sponsor cadets of the
     same gender. Parents may sponsor their own son or daughter regardless of their marital
     status. All sponsors, military and civilian, must be at least 28 years old.
     3.3. Military Status. Active duty, reserve, national guard, or retired officers in the rank of
     Captain (O-3) and above, active duty, reserve, national guard, or retired noncommissioned
     officers in the rank of TSgt (E-6) and above, and DoD civilians in the grade of General
     Schedule Grade 5 (GS-5), or equivalent, and above are eligible to be a sponsor. The
     following (or their spouses) are not eligible to participate in the Sponsor Program: HQ
     USAFA, Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC); HQ USAFA, Vice Superintendent (HQ
     USAFA/CV); Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW); Vice Commandant (USAFA/CWV);
     Center for Character Development, Director, (USAFA/CWC); all Group Air Officer
     Commanding (AOCs), all Deputy Group AOCs, all Group Superintendents, all AOCs and all
     Academy Military Trainers (AMTs).
     3.4. Relatives of Cadets. Parents, regardless of their status, may sponsor their own son or
     daughter. Relatives of cadets (grandparents, aunts, uncles, brothers, sisters, and cousins) may
     also sponsor. All relatives wanting to sponsor must reside within the boundaries cited in
     paragraph 3.1.
     3.5. Waivers for Sponsors. Sponsors must request waivers for the following: if they live
     outside of the established boundary, if they are single and requesting an opposite gender
     cadet (if not related, a letter from the cadet’s parents is also required); military and DoD
     civilians not meeting the rank requirement in paragraph 3.3.
4. How Civilians Become Sponsors: Civilians from the local community must submit three
letters to become sponsors. These include a letter of introduction regarding their family and two
letters of character reference from religious, work, or neighborhood affiliations. USAFA
graduates that are separated from the Air Force (not active duty or retired) must submit one letter
of introduction.
5. Administering the Program:
     5.1. Commandant of Cadets, Training Support Directorate (CWT) is responsible to:
USAFAI36-2008 15 DECEMBER 2009                                                                3


     5.1.1. Serve as the approving authority for all waiver requests pertaining to this
     instruction.
     5.1.2. Serve as the approving authority for removal of sponsors when necessary.
  5.2. Commandant of Cadets, Support Division (CWTM) is responsible to:
     5.2.1. Recruit eligible people wishing to be Cadet Sponsors.
     5.2.2. Honor requests for cadets and sponsors by name or area of interest. Cadet requests
     are honored first. If USAFA/CWTM cannot honor a special request, it will match the
     sponsor or cadet based on their common interests, unless the cadet or sponsor specifically
     requests no substitutions.
     5.2.3. Obtain personal preferences and areas of special interest from incoming fourth-
     class cadets.
     5.2.4. Coordinate with HQ USAFA, Public Affairs (HQ USAFA/PA) on promotional
     material and news releases for the Cadet Sponsor program.
     5.2.5. Maintain the database of all sponsors and cadets. All computers that access this
     database are properly marked in accordance with Privacy Act policies and all maintainers
     are briefed on their responsibilities.
     5.2.6. Provide AOCs a list of sponsors for all cadets in their squadron.
     5.2.7. Provide sponsors and cadets updated information on Cadet Sponsor program
     policies and responsibilities as necessary.
     5.2.8. Brief sponsors once a year on their responsibilities and update information on
     USAFA/CW policies.
     5.2.9. Monitor, evaluate, and correct problems found with the Cadet Sponsor program.
     5.2.10. Recommend removal of sponsors who permit, condone, or know of cadet
     misconduct, but who fail to cooperate with the Academy in investigating that misconduct.
     5.2.11. Survey the upper three classes once a year to verify the accuracy of the sponsor
     information file.
     5.2.12. Brief cadets about the Cadet Sponsor program.
  5.3. Squadron AOCs are responsible to:
     5.3.1. Implement the Cadet Sponsor program within their squadrons.
     5.3.2. Provide all fourth and third class cadets in their squadrons with the opportunity to
     request a sponsor.
     5.3.3. Ensure cadets understand their responsibility to comply with all policies and
     instructions governing cadets while they are at the Academy and associating with their
     sponsors.
     5.3.4. Encourage and allow cadets to contact their sponsors within a reasonable amount
     of time after CWTM assigns them.
     5.3.5. Authorize (when appropriate) passes to visit sponsors, according to the applicable
     USAFA/CW guidance.
 4                                                     USAFAI36-2008 15 DECEMBER 2009


        5.3.6. Identify ineffective or unsuitable sponsors and recommend their removal from the
        Cadet Sponsor program (see paragraph 5.2.10.).
6. Information Collections, Records, and Forms.
     6.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
     6.2. Records Accountability. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
     prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
     Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
     Disposition     Schedule     (RDS),    located     in     https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
     af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
     6.3. DELETED.
        6.3.1. DELETED.
        6.3.2. DELETED.




                                             GREGORY J. LENGYEL, Brigadier General,
                                             USAF
                                             Commandant of Cadets
USAFAI36-2008 15 DECEMBER 2009                                           5


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel, 23 December 2008
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
No forms are prescribed by this publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Acronyms and Abbreviations
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMT—Academy Military Trainer
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
DoD—Department of Defense
NSPS—National Security Personnel System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFAPD—United States Air Force Academy Policy Directive
O-3—Captain
E-6—Tsgt
GS-5——General Schedule Grade 5
