BY ORDER OF THE                                    UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
THE SUPERINTENDENT                                              MISSION DIRECTIVE 4

                                                                              25 JANUARY 2012



                                                                     DEAN OF THE FACULTY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/A5D                                                 Certified by: HQ USAFA/A589
                                                                  (Col Michael L. Therianos, Jr.)
Supersedes:    USAFAMD4,                                                                Pages: 2
               27 September 2007


This mission directive provides general guidance about the mission and assigned duties of the
Dean of the Faculty, Headquarters United States Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force Form (AF) 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The roles and responsibilities of the Dean of the Faculty were revised to more accurately
describe the Dean’s leadership focus in the development and execution of policies and programs.
Verbiage was also changed in regards to responsibilities of Permanent Professor assignments to
remove conflict with higher level directives.
1. Mission. To educate, train, and inspire men and women to become officers of character
motivated to lead the United States Air Force in service to our nation.
2. Command. The Dean of the Faculty, United States Air Force Academy:
   2.1. Reports directly to the Superintendent, United States Air Force Academy.
   2.2. Exercises administrative and operational control of assigned faculty and staff members
   and assumes operational control over cadets per Superintendent guidance.
 2                                                           USAFAMD4 25 JANUARY 2012


     2.3. Is the supported commander for cadet academic development.
     2.4. Is a supporting commander for character, leadership, and physical development.
3. Roles and Responsibilities. The Dean of the Faculty, United States Air Force Academy:
     3.1. Designs and executes education and experiential programs in accordance with the
     principles of the Officer Development System (ODS), in pursuit of the USAFA Outcomes
     and the Air Force Institutional Competencies they support, to develop officers of character.
     3.2. Develops and executes policies and programs for academic development, including an
     accredited Bachelor of Science Degree for all cadets, integrated within the overall USAFA
     Course of Instruction which is intended to produce leaders of character who embody the Air
     Force core values; who are critical thinkers, empowered by integrated intellectual and
     warrior skills; and grounded in essential knowledge of the profession of arms and the human
     and physical worlds in accordance with the Air Force Academy’s institutional outcomes.
     3.3. Coordinates in conjunction with the Manpower and Personnel Directorate (HQ
     USAFA/A1) and Air Force Personnel Center to manage the academic faculty. This includes
     responsibility for nominating candidates for appointment as Permanent Professors, instructor
     development, and faculty sustainment measures.
     3.4. Facilitates Superintendent, Commandant of Cadets, and Director of Athletics program
     objectives.




                                             TAMRA L. RANK, Col, USAF
                                             Vice Superintendent
