BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                    INSTRUCTION 36-2805
EUROPE
                                                                                27 JUNE 2014

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                      UNITED KINGDOM AMBASSADOR’S
                                                                  AWARDS PROGRAM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: Det 1, HQ USAFE                                            Certified by: Det 1, HQ USAFE
                                                                               (Mr. Gary Slack)
Supersedes: 3AFI36-2801, 26 September 2011                                             Pages: 6


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations
Program. It provides guidance and procedures for the nomination, selection, and presentation of
annual community relations awards to outstanding American and British personnel. This
publication applies to all Active Duty, to Air Force Reserve Command units, to members of the
Air National Guard of the United States on a Title 10 status stationed in the United Kingdom,
and civilian personnel working or living in a community where the United States Force (USF) is
stationed in the United Kingdom. This publication requires the collecting and keeping of
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10, United States Code,
Section 8013. System of records notice F036 AFPC V, Awards and Decorations, applies.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. This publication may be supplemented, but all direct Supplements must be routed to
the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. The use of the
name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the United States Air Force (USAF). The authorities
to waive requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier number (T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3)
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for
a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
 2                                                             USAFEI36-2805 27 JUNE 2014


through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,
to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include a title change from 3AFI 36-2801 to USAFEI 36-2805 and the OPR change
from 3rd Air Force-United Kingdom (3AF-UK) to Detachment 1, Headquarters United States
Air Forces in Europe, which is referred to throughout this document as United States Air Forces
in Europe-United States Air Forces Africa/United Kingdom (USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK). It also
adds the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Allied Rapid Reaction Corps to the list of
Award Groupings.
1. Objectives. The Ambassador’s Awards Program recognizes outstanding United States (US)
and United Kingdom (UK) personnel working in or with the USF at bases and units within the
UK in the advancement of bilateral relations. The award highlights the productive cooperation
between the USF and local communities to facilitate enhanced British-American Community
Relations.
2. Background. The Ambassador’s Awards program was initiated in 1955 by the then
Ambassador to the Court of St James’s, Mr. Winthrop Aldrich. It allowed the American
Ambassador to the UK to recognize those bases and individuals that made outstanding
contributions to local community relations during the previous year. The awards were
discontinued around 2002 with the reorganization of numbered air forces in Europe. This
instruction continues the awards program on behalf of the US Ambassador to the UK.
3. Awards. Each base or regional grouping of bases will select one nominee for each of the
following award categories: US Individual, UK Individual, and Group Program (US or UK).
4. Award Criteria. The Ambassador’s awards are given to individuals and organizations that
make exceptional contributions to the British-American community relations. The award period
is 1 May through 30 April of the following calendar year. This unusual award period was
selected to be set apart from the other USAF annual awards and to occur early enough to
recognize the recipients before the heavy permanent change of station cycle in the summer
months.
5. Nominee Eligibility.
     5.1. Individual Awards - Anyone is eligible for the award. All US citizens or family
     members thereof are eligible for the US Individual Award, and all UK citizens and residents
     are eligible for the UK Individual Award. The award may be given for work performed
     during any part of the award period. The work need not last for the entire annual period.
     5.2. Group Program Award – Any organization or group, regardless of national affiliation, is
     eligible for this award. In the judgment of the nominator, this group must have made a
     significant enhancement to the Community Relations programs in the region/community,
     even if the main focus of the group is not directly related to community relations.
6. Award Groupings. Awards will be grouped into major regional or organizational lines. The
following bases or organizations will be grouped together:
USAFEI36-2805 27 JUNE 2014                                                                   3


   6.1. RAF Mildenhall
   6.2. RAF Lakenheath and RAF Feltwell
   6.3. RAF Alconbury and RAF Molesworth
   6.4. RAF Croughton, RAF Fairford, and RAF Welford
   6.5. RAF Menwith Hill
   6.6. NATO Northwood and London Communities
   6.7. NATO Allied Rapid Reaction Corps
7. Responsibilities.
   7.1. The US Ambassador to the UK is the award approval authority. He or she is expected
   to:
       7.1.1. Sign the award certificates.
       7.1.2. Participate in an award ceremony if requested and available.
   7.2. The Defense Attaché Office (DAO) has been delegated authority from the US
   Ambassador to oversee the selection process. The DAO will:
       7.2.1. Chair the award selection board which consists of representatives from USAFE-
       AFAFRICA/UK and the British-American Community Relations (BACR) Organization.
       7.2.2. Establish procedures to be used by the selection board.
       7.2.3. Produce the certificates for the winners.
   7.3. USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK is represented in this process by its International Relations
   directorate, USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK. USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK will:
       7.3.1. Act as the office of primary responsibility for the administration of the award
       program. (T-2)
       7.3.2. Receive the nominees from each of the award groupings for consolidation and
       transmittal to the award selection board. (T-2)
       7.3.3. Represent USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK on the selection board. (T-2)
       7.3.4. Distribute the signed award certificates to the local installation commanders for
       presentation. (T-2)
   7.4. The BACR is represented in this process by either Group Captain USVF or the Chief,
   Community Relations Advisor.
   7.5. Senior installation commanders are responsible to:
       7.5.1. Execute the program for their base/region so nominees are selected in a fair
       process. (T2)
       7.5.2. Include the local British-American Committee Chairs, Community Relations
       Advisors and RAF Commanders in their nominee selection process. (T-2)
       7.5.3. Submit complete nomination packages to USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK no later than
       31 May each year. (T-2)
 4                                                              USAFEI36-2805 27 JUNE 2014


8. Nomination and Selection Process.
     8.1. Nominations must be made on an AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, and will be
     limited no more than eight lines, in bullet format. Heading for the body of the AF Form 1206
     (not to be counted as one of the eight lines) will be “Contributions to Community Relations.”
     8.2. Any person associated with the USF communities may nominate a person or program
     for these awards. Nominators should ensure they provide sufficient details supporting the
     relevant actions and results of the nominee’s contributions towards the award’s objectives,
     for the local selection officials to give due consideration to all nominees.
     8.3. Nominations are due to USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK no later than 31 May of each calendar
     year.
     8.4. Each base or regional grouping will forward a maximum of one award nominee for each
     category.
     8.5. Pursuant to the recommendation of the award selection board, the DAO may present any
     number of awards in each category for approval by the Ambassador.
9. Award Presentations. Awards may be presented as the senior installation commander
deems appropriate. Care should be given in choosing an award presentation forum which
reinforces the strong community relations spirit of the award.




                                             DOUGLAS A. COX, Brigadier General, USAF
                                             Director, Detachment 1, Headquarters United States
                                             Air Forces in Europe
USAFEI36-2805 27 JUNE 2014                                                    5


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, 1 August 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
BACR—British-American Community Relations
DAO—Defense Attaché Office
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RAF—Royal Air Force
UK—United Kingdom
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFE—AFAFRICA/UK - United States Air Forces in Europe-United States Air Forces
Africa/United Kingdom
USF—United States Force
USVF—United States Visiting Forces
 6                                                            USAFEI36-2805 27 JUNE 2014


                                        Attachment 2
                         AMBASSADOR AWARD CERTIFICATE

A2.1. This attachment contains an example of a certificate for the individual or group citation.
The stock supply of certificates will be maintained by the OPR, USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK, and
will be presented by the Ambassador.

Figure A2.1. Sample Certificate.
