BY ORDER OF THE                                       HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
SUPERINTENDENT                                                         INSTRUCTION 32-1004
                                                                                   2 FEBRUARY 2006
                                                                      Certified Current 6 February 2013
                                                                                          Civil Engineer

                                                    USAF ACADEMY CEMETERY PLANNING AND
                                                                          DEVELOPMENT

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAFA/CEPD (Mr. Duane Boyle)                                     Certified by: HQ USAFA/CEP
                                                                                  (Mr. Raymond Magee)
                                                                                                Pages: 4
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and Facilities. This
instruction implements United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) policy that provides guidance for all
master planning and physical development of the Academy cemetery. Additional references are Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 34-242, Mortuary Affairs Program, USAFA Instruction (USAFAI) 34-242, Using
the USAF Academy Cemetery, USAFAI 36-3102, USAF Academy Memorial Board, AFI 51-601, USAFA
Supplement 1, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force, the National Historic Preservation Act, the
USAFA Master Plan, and the USAFA Design Guidelines. The Master Plan and Design Guidelines are
Civil Engineer documents. The purpose of this publication is to set standards for all physical develop-
ment of and expansion to the cemetery to meet functional requirements, Air Force Policy, and historic
intent. Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to HQ USAFA/
CEPD, 8120 Edgerton Drive, USAF Academy, CO 80840 on AF Information Management Tool (IMT)
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of pro-
cesses prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.


1. OVERVIEW:
   1.1. Background: It is Air Force policy to maintain all Air Force physical assets in a manner consis-
   tent with functional requirements and sustainable life cycles. The planning and design intent is a sim-
   ple, open meadow with no vertical intrusion. The design is viewed as understated, elegant, and
   calming. USAFA leadership has preserved the plan with few exceptions. The cemetery is a contrib-
   uting feature to the USAFA historic district and therefore falls under the purview of the National His-
   toric Preservation Act.
   1.2. Responsibilities:
2                                                                 USAFAI32-1004 2 FEBRUARY 2006


       1.2.1. Superintendent. Establishes and provides oversight of policy, and accepts gifts. Approves
       the master plan to include design and content of items in accordance with this Instruction and
       related Instructions, laws, or guidance.
       1.2.2. Memorial Board. Reviews all proposed donated and memorialization related items for the
       cemetery and makes acceptance recommendations to the Superintendent.
       1.2.3. Commander, 10th Air Base Wing (10 ABW/CC). Ensures proper support of the Mortu-
       ary program, as well as any planning and design requirements for future cemetery expansion,
       growth, or change.
       1.2.4. 10th Civil Engineer Squadron (10 CES). 10 CES will master plan all expansion and pro-
       vide standards coordination for all alterations and gifts. 10 CES is the POC for siting of all build-
       ings, sculpture, and memorial walls within the cemetery.
       1.2.5. 10th Services Division (10 SVS). 10 SVS will manage the Mortuary Program IAW
       USAFA Instruction 34-242 and the standards defined in this Instruction.

2. PLANNING:
    2.1. The cemetery master plan is part of the overall USAFA campus master plan (Attachment 1). The
    plan shows development and expansion potential and includes siting of buildings, location of open
    space, future columbarium walls, location of benches, and location of existing and future grave space.
    This plan prevents random location of donated items, such as benches, and organizes these elements
    into a cohesive plan that compliments the function and aesthetics of the cemetery.
    2.2. Colorado Historical Society. In accordance with (IAW) the National Historic Preservation Act
    and the Act’s implementing regulations, any significant change to original cemetery design concept
    shall be coordinated with the Colorado Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) prior to implementing
    the change. SHPO review is solely related to visual and planning compatibility with historic assets
    and is not related to content. Items that do not impact historic assets, such as individual plaques, will
    not need SHPO review. If SHPO review is required, their concurrence must be obtained prior to for-
    mal acceptance of a donated item.

3. DESIGN STANDARDS:
    3.1. Design standards have two main areas of control, the overall physical image of the cemetery, and
    the elements, including buildings, that are placed in the cemetery environment.
       3.1.1. Overall Physical Image. The image of the USAFA Cemetery is one of simplicity, dignity,
       equality, and calm. The open meadow image sets it apart from other cemeteries.
           3.1.1.1. Viewsheds from any point will be kept free of vertical elements other than trees, the
           American Legion memorial, and the flagpole.
           3.1.1.2. Structures will be placed at the far north side of the cemetery so visual impact is min-
           imized by the rolling topography to the south.
           3.1.1.3. Landscaping will consist of open expanses of grass with existing native trees. Natural
           topography from adjacent hillsides will extend into the cemetery and buffer new areas of
           expansion resulting in preservation of the cemetery’s intimate scale.
USAFAI32-1004 2 FEBRUARY 2006                                                                          3


     3.1.2. Elements. A variety of elements, many donated, exist in the cemetery. More elements will
     be added in the future with USAFA approval. The following standards will ensure that the ceme-
     tery remains a desirable location for interment. 10 CES will review the design of all items to be
     placed in the cemetery for compliance with this Instruction and established standards. This review
     is for both aesthetic and technical adequacy.
        3.1.2.1. Benches. All new benches will conform to overall USAFA standards. Non-memorial
        Benches will have a polished top of Cold Spring, Rockville Beige granite or equal. Memorial
        benches will have a polished black granite top to allow engraving. All benches will be sup-
        ported by two round black granite pedestals with a honed surface.
        3.1.2.2. Bench pads. All benches will be placed on a concrete pad in compliance with the
        bench master plan. Concrete pads will be 5” thick with tooled joints and edges. Slabs will
        have a light, uniform, broom finish. Color will be natural grey. When a bench is donated,
        with the intent that there will be only one bench on a pad, the donor is responsible for all site
        preparation, placement of the slab to industry standards, and reclamation of any damage to
        adjacent landscape materials. At locations where more than one bench will be located on a
        pad, USAFA will place the pad at a location defined by the master plan.
        3.1.2.3. Grave markers. The design, location, and content of grave markers are defined by
        USAFAI 34-242. Markers will continue to be mounted flush with the surrounding grass.
        3.1.2.4. Buildings and structures. Buildings and all other structures will comply with the
        established USAFA Design Standards and will be designed in the International Style. The
        USAFA Design Standards are available from 10 CES.
        3.1.2.5. Sculpture. No free standing sculpture will be permitted within the open grassy areas
        of the cemetery. Donated sculpture may be allowed if associated with a bench (such as an
        individual sitting on a bench) or if the sculpture is sited along the east or west borders of the
        cemetery at the transition of formal to native landscape. Within the open, grass areas of the
        cemetery, at no time will any sculpture exceed the height of seated adult or a horizontal dimen-
        sion of 10’- 0”. No heroic proportioned statuary is allowed in the open, grass areas. All sculp-
        ture will be religion neutral. The Memorial Board will review the content and image of all
        proposed sculpture and recommend approval or disapproval to the Superintendent. All sculp-
        ture will be cast bronze. Due to the solemn and contemplative nature of the cemetery, it is
        highly recommended that all sculpture be original pieces, meaningfully designed specifically
        for placement in the USAFA cemetery. “Off the shelf” sculpture is discouraged.
        3.1.2.6. Signage. All road, directional, information and building signage shall conform to
        USAFA Design Standards which is available from 10 CES.
        3.1.2.7. Plaques. Memorial plaques donated by DoD related groups will be placed on the
        existing Memorial Walls. Other plaques, such as those associated with donors, will be placed
        on building walls specifically designed to display the plaques, or in the vicinity of the item
        donated. At no time will stand alone vertical elements, on which to mount plaques, be
        allowed. All plaques will be cast bronze. Design and content will be reviewed by the Memo-
        rial Board who will recommend that the Superintendent approve or disapprove the plaque.
        3.1.2.8. Memorial walls. Several memorial walls currently exist. These walls contain
        donated plaques commemorating various DoD related groups, usually from historic conflicts.
        Additional plaques may be placed on the existing walls until no more space is available. Once
4                                                                 USAFAI32-1004 2 FEBRUARY 2006


           existing wall space is exhausted, no additional new walls will be built in the cemetery. Addi-
           tional walls, when required, will be constructed in the vicinity of the B-52. At the time when
           additional grave space is required, the existing memorial walls will be relocated from the cem-
           etery to the B-52 site.
           3.1.2.9. Memorial trees. Memorial trees can be placed at the cemetery. However, the trees
           will not encroach on the open visual characteristics of the cemetery. 10 CES will approve the
           species to ensure survivability and compatibility with the cemetery. Memorial plaques associ-
           ated with a memorial tree will be cast bronze, 6” x 12”, and mounted flush with the surround-
           ing grass and terrain.
    3.2. Records Accountability. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
    publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and dis-
    posed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
    https://afrims.amc.af.mil.
    3.3. GeoBase. 10 CES will electronically record all physical changes to the cemetery.
    3.4. Forms or IMTs (Adopted and Prescribed).
       3.4.1. Adopted Forms or IMTs: AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
       3.4.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs: No forms or IMTs are prescribed by this publication.



                                                RICHARD B. STONESTREET, Colonel, USAF
                                                Commander, 10th Civil Engineer Squadron
