BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                             EUROPE 36-104
EUROPE
                                                                                 17 JUNE 2014

                                                                                      Personnel

                                                       US FORCES CIVILIAN COMPONENT
                                                        DETERMINATION IN THE UNITED
                                                                            KINGDOM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: Det 1, HQ USAFE                                            Certified by: Det 1, HQ USAFE
                                                                           (Col Matthew Grant)
                                                                                       Pages: 7
Supersedes:   3AFI36-104, 21 August 2009


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-1, General Civilian
Personnel Provisions and Authorities. It sets out policy, procedures and responsibility for
processing of US Forces Civilian Component status actions in the United Kingdom (UK). It
implements the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement (NATO SOFA).
It will be used by commanders, Civilian Personnel Office (CPO), Morale, Welfare, and
Recreation, Human Resource Office, Army Air Force Exchange Services (AAFES), Defense
Commissary Agency, Department of Defense Dependent Schools (DODDS), USAFRICOM,
Joint Intelligence Operations Center – Europe Analytic Center, Special United States Liaison
Office (SUSLO), US Air Force Support Group Commanders, and Staff Judge Advocates. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command units or to the Air National Guard of
the United States. This instruction only applies to personnel stationed within the UK. This
instruction requires collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained IAW Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of
command. This publication may be supplemented, but all direct Supplements must be routed to
 2                                                              USAFEI36-104 17 JUNE 2014


the OPR of this publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. The authorities
to waive requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier number (T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3)
following the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for
a description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,
to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include a title change from 3AFI36-104 to USAFEI 36-104 and the OPR change from
3rd Air Force-United Kingdom (3AF-UK) to Headquarters, United States Air Forces in Europe,
Detachment 1, which is referred to throughout this document as United States Air Forces in
Europe-United States Air Forces Africa/United Kingdom (USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK). In
addition, the 100th Force Support Squadron/Force Support Manpower and Personnel Flight-
Civilian (100FSS/FSMC) is referred to as the Royal Air Force Mildenhall (RAFM) CPO.
1. Policy. The CPO will determine whether current or prospective Department of Defense
(DoD) employees may be continued or designated as members of the US Civilian Component in
the UK. (T-1) The base hiring authority will review applications and forward to RAFM CPO
for decision. (T-1) All employees of US Government DoD Agencies who are determined to be
members of the Civilian Component, as defined in Article 1(b), NATO SOFA will have their
passports endorsed with the US Civilian Component stamp to conform to Article III para 3,
NATO SOFA. This identifies the entitlement to Civilian Component Status and associated
privileges. The passports are further reviewed by the UK Home Office for a recognition
decision. If the UK Home Office disagrees with the United States Air Force (USAF) decision,
the USAF will continue to allow ration privileges unless the Director of Legal Services, Det 1,
HQ USAFE (USAFE-AFAFRICA/UKJA) decides the person is not eligible for Civilian
Component status. Legal and policy matters concerning this instruction will be determined by
USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK.
2. Civilian Component Criteria. To be a member of the US Civilian Component an employee:
     2.1. Must be a citizen of the US or of any other NATO contracting party other than the UK.
     In the case where the applicant is not a US citizen, or a citizen of any other NATO member
     country, advise the applicant they are not eligible for Civilian Component status.
     2.2. Must be employed by a US “Armed Service.” This includes both appropriated and non-
     appropriated fund activities of the DoD, including the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force,
     and the US Coast Guard. Employees hired under local civilian labor conditions shall not be
     regarded for any purpose as being members of the civilian component (Article IX, paragraph
     4, NATO SOFA). Employment must be “full time,” which, for purposes of this instruction,
     means the employees must be guaranteed and working 20 hours per week.
     2.3. Must NOT be a national (citizen of) the UK. However, a US citizen who is an
     employee of the US Armed Services and who is also a UK citizen under UK law is a “dual
     national/dual citizen”. As a citizen of both countries, a dual national is eligible for US
     Civilian Component status (i.e. those privileges authorized by US component stamp).
USAFEI36-104 17 JUNE 2014                                                                        3


      2.3.1. NOTE: US/UK dual nationals are not recognized by the UK Home Office as
      being entitled to membership of the US Civilian Component. The UK Home Office will
      refuse to endorse the passport of such a dual national with a recognition stamp.
      Consequently, US/UK dual nationals will be unable to obtain privileges that require the
      production of the UK Home Office recognition stamp (e.g. council tax exemption and
      the purchase of tax-free vehicles).
      2.3.2. With rare exceptions, in accordance with the British Nationality Act 1981, any
      person born in the UK before 1 January 1983 is a citizen of the UK. As a matter of
      personal choice, it is possible for a citizen of the UK who is over 18, and a dual citizen of
      another country, to renounce UK citizenship. A Declaration of Renunciation of
      Citizenship registered with the UK Home Office will show termination of UK
      citizenship.
      2.3.3. While British citizens may have become naturalized US citizens, and orally
      renounced their UK citizenship as part of the process, they are still British citizens under
      British law. Therefore, in the UK, they must take the additional step of renouncing their
      UK citizenship in writing (see paragraph 2.3.2.) to be considered for the UK Home
      Office recognition stamp. If they renounce their UK citizenship in writing and they meet
      all other criteria set forth in this instruction, the employee’s request for civilian
      component recognition will be forwarded to the UK Home Office for their decision as to
      whether to issue a recognition stamp. The RAFM CPO will advise applicants on such
      options.
   2.4. Must NOT be “ordinarily resident” in the UK (see paragraph 3.).
3. “Ordinarily Resident” Criteria.
   3.1. “Ordinarily resident” is not defined in the NATO SOFA. However, the term normally
   involves a number of factors and refers to a continuing course of conduct. The following is
   guidance used by US officials in the UK responsible for making such determinations.
      3.1.1. People who have lived in the UK for over one year (i.e. one year and one day)
      without a US government connection (employment with the US Government or
      equivalent employment or dependent member of such person employed with the US
      Government), are ordinarily resident in the UK. Ordinary residency or ordinarily resident
      determinations are made by the RAFM CPO. Once a person becomes a member of the
      Civilian Component, that person cannot thereafter become ordinarily resident in the UK
      so long as the person remains in substantially continuous US Government employment.
   3.2. Time spent in full-time US Government or equivalent employment is not counted
   toward becoming ordinarily resident. The following is equivalent to US Government
   employment for purposes or “ordinarily resident” determinations:
      3.2.1. Time spent as an employee (or dependent of an employee) of a US agency serving
      with and supporting the US Visiting Force such as the Red Cross, one of the contract
      universities, a military banking facility or federal credit union, or by a US Government
      contractor as a “technical representative”.
 4                                                                USAFEI36-104 17 JUNE 2014


4. Termination of “Ordinarily Resident” Status.
     4.1. A person may stop being ordinarily resident by leaving the UK. However,
     determinations of termination of this status are difficult to support since visits to the US or
     other countries are common, even for extended (three to six months) periods. Generally,
     absence from the UK for one year or more will terminate ordinarily resident status regardless
     of other factors, and absence for less than one year will not terminate the status. Factors to
     consider are those that show cutting ties to the UK, or attempts to strengthen ties to another
     country. Some factors indicating a termination of “ordinarily resident” status include:
     terminating a long term lease or tenancy in the UK; initiating a long term arrangement for
     housing in another country; selling a vehicle in the UK; establishing full time employment in
     another country; terminating employment in the UK; shipment of household goods to another
     country; transportation of family members to another country; and removal of children from
     UK schools or enrolling them elsewhere. Also consider the relative duration of the stay in
     the UK compared to the time spent outside the UK. NOTE: A determination by the UK
     Home Office that a person has “settled status” or “indefinite leave to remain” is not a
     determination of ordinarily resident status for US purposes, but may prevent UK recognition.
     Nevertheless, it can be an indicator that the employee has resided in the UK for more than
     one year.
5. Procedures and Responsibilities.
     5.1. All employees requiring Civilian Component privileges will be provided an application
     form by their servicing Personnel Office (AAFES, DoDDS, Non-Appropriated Funds, etc).
     (T1)
     5.2. The servicing Personnel Office will ensure the information in the application is accurate
     and forward it to the RAFM CPO, along with the applicant’s current proof of UK
     immigration status, supporting documentation such as orders, verification of guaranteed
     hours and if applicable, DD Form 214, Certificate of Release or Discharge From Active
     Duty. (T-1)
        5.2.1. Contractor employees (technical representative) are not in the employ of an
        “armed service” and are thus ineligible for US component status. However, some
        contractor employees who are deemed “special technical representatives” under a
        program managed by the SUSLO at the US Embassy, London, may be eligible for US
        component status.        Contractor employees who are deemed special technical
        representatives will be identified individually to the RAFM CPO by the SUSLO. (T-1)
        Servicing Personnel Offices of special technical representatives shall not forward Civilian
        Component Endorsement requests until applicants are confirmed as listed on the SUSLO
        list. If applications are received outside of the process, they will be returned
        immediately.
        5.2.2. If the applicant is a dual US/UK national, the RAFM CPO will advise the
        individual they are not entitled to the UK Home Office recognition stamp (in accordance
        with paragraph 2.3.1). (T-1)
     5.3. RAFM CPO will log in all passports, create a case file and determine whether Civilian
     Component status is appropriate. (T-1) If authorized, passports are then endorsed with a
     dated Civilian Component stamp and embossed with the Sending State Office Seal. The
USAFEI36-104 17 JUNE 2014                                                                        5


   application is then signed as granted. Passport and case file are then forwarded to the
   Personnel Management Specialist for final approval and signature. The log is annotated that
   the passport and case file have been forwarded to the UK Home Office for consideration of
   the recognition stamp. Upon return, passports are logged back and returned via Certified
   mail, recording the Certified mail number in the log. Individuals who collect passports will
   sign the log upon receipt.
      5.3.1. If Component Endorsement is not authorized, the RAFM CPO (in coordination
      with USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK if necessary) will provide the Servicing Personnel Office
      written details of the reason for denial, including details of the appeal procedure. (T-1)
      Passport will be logged out and returned by Certified mail. Servicing Personnel Office
      will then notify the applicant and provide them a copy of the written denial.
6. Transferring Component Endorsement to New Passport.
   6.1. The servicing Personnel Office reviews expired passports for the Component stamp,
   checks validity of Leave to Remain stamp and that the new passport has been signed.
   Servicing Personnel Office then completes a transfer application confirming continued
   employment and forwards it to RAFM CPO for determination. (T-1)
   6.2. Transfer without a previous passport (i.e., lost or stolen). If previous approval can be
   verified through the case file maintained by RAFM CPO, a transfer application can be
   submitted. If not, an initial application must be completed and forwarded for determination.
7. Reconsideration.
   7.1. Appeals from the denial of component status will be submitted to RAFM CPO through
   the Servicing Personnel Office detailing any new evidence that was not originally available.
   RAFM CPO will reconsider the application, in coordination with USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK,
   for a final decision. (T-1)
      7.1.1. If the original decision is reversed, the passport will be submitted per paragraph
      5.3. If original decision is upheld, a letter detailing the decision will be forwarded to the
      Servicing Personnel Office for issuance to the applicant. (T-1)
   7.2. Eligibility for membership in the US Civilian Component is not a statutory prerequisite
   to gaining employment with US DoD agencies in the UK.
8. Termination of Civilian Component Status.
   8.1. When a member terminates employment, the Servicing Personnel Office must void the
   Component Stamps in the individual’s passport and provide the employee an out-processing
   sheet to ensure notifications are made to agencies so entitlements granted by the Component
   Endorsement Stamps are appropriately terminated. (T-0)
   8.2. Servicing Personnel Office will notify RAFM CPO and local councils when a member
   terminates employment or no longer satisfies the eligibility criteria outlined in paragraph 2.
   (T1)
 6                                                             USAFEI36-104 17 JUNE 2014


9. Interpretation. Direct all questions involving interpretation of this instruction to UK base
legal offices.




                                           CHRISTOPHER J. BENCE, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Director, Detachment 1, Headquarters United States Air
                                           Forces in Europe
USAFEI36-104 17 JUNE 2014                                                                7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities, 7 March 1995
NATO SOFA, North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement, 19 June 1951
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AF—Air Force
CPO—Civilian Personnel Office
USAFE—AFAFRICA/UK - United States Air Forces in Europe-United States Air Forces
Africa/United Kingdom
FSS—Force Support Squadron
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDDS—Department of Defense Dependent Schools
NATO SOFA—North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RAFM—Royal Air Force Mildenhall
SUSLO—Special United States Liaison Office
UK—United Kingdom
US—United States
USAF—United States Air Force
