BY ORDER OF THE SUPERINTENDENT                                     HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
                                                                  ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 32-5001
                                                                                  25 NOVEMBER 2004

                                                                                      Civil Engineering

                                                          OBTAINING NEW OR DUPLICATE KEYS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAFA/CEO                                                            Certified by: 10 CES/DCE
       (Mr. William K. Barton)                                                  (Mr. Rolland N. Olson)
Supersedes USAFAI32-5001, 18 October 1995                                                       Pages: 3
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 32-90, Real Property Management, dated 10 September 1993. It
informs personnel how to obtain new or duplicate keys and applies to everyone requiring access to United
States Air Force Academy (USAFA) facilities. Portions of this instruction are punitive and subject viola-
tors to appropriate disciplinary action including the possibility of punishment under the Uniform Code of
Military Justice (UCMJ).

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Updates references to new AFI numbers, changes organizational office symbols, and removes informa-
tion applying only to 10 CES/CEOP to organizational publications. A bar (|) identifies revisions from the
previous edition dated 18 October 1995.


1. How to Request Keys:
   1.1. Getting Approval. Before submitting a request for keys, the requestor must obtain approval
   from the proper authority. Request approval for:
       1.1.1. Building master and exterior door keys from the Squadron Commander or functional Direc-
       torate Head. Interior door keys from the building manager or alternate of the respective building.
       1.1.2. Mechanical room and tunnel keys from the 10th Civil Engineer Commander or a desig-
       nated representative.
       1.1.3. Military Family Housing (MFH) keys from the 10th Civil Engineer Squadron, Military
       Family Housing Office (10 CES/CEH).
   1.2. Obtaining Initial Issue or Additional Keys. Prepare AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer
   Work Request, indicating room number, key series, quantity required, and the reason for the request.
   Submit the completed form to 10th Civil Engineer Squadron, Customer Service, 10 CES/CEOP,
   Building 8116.
2                                                                USAFAI32-5001 25 NOVEMBER 2004


    1.3. Obtaining and Returning Keys for Family Housing Quarters. 10 CES/CEOP issues family
    housing quarters keys directly to the Housing Office to distribute and control. 10 CES/CEH issues
    newly assigned MFH occupants at least two keys. Occupants may also get extra keys without charge,
    which are annotated on the AF Form 227, Quarters Condition Inspection Report. Occupants must
    return the same number of keys as issued when clearing quarters. Before clearing quarters and receiv-
    ing reinstated Basic Allowance for Quarters, the occupant must pay $5 to Financial Management in
    Civil Engineering for each key not accounted for and give a copy of the paid voucher to the Housing
    Office.
    1.4. Replacing Broken Keys. To order identical replacement keys, take broken keys and an
    approved AF Form 332, describing requirements, to 10 CES/CEOP.
    1.5. Replacing Lost Keys. If a key is lost and the building manager determines security has been
    compromised, the building manager sends a written statement of this fact to 10 CES/CEOP. If a lost
    key requires a change in door locks, prepare an AF Form 332. Note the person responsible for the lost
    key on the AF Form 332 and forward to 10 CES/CEOP. The person who loses a key is financially lia-
    ble for the cost to change all affected locks in addition to the replacement cost of the key. If the person
    who loses a key denies responsibility, a Report of Survey shall be initiated by the commander of the
    individual to whom the lost key was issued. The commander will appoint an official who will deter-
    mine the facts in the case and make findings and recommendations as to assessing or not assessing
    pecuniary liability against an individual. If you require the same type key as the one lost, send or bring
    copies of DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher, and AF Form 332 to 10 CES/CEOP or 10 CES/
    CEH, as appropriate. According to AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, you
    must also submit a DD Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss, when an inci-
    dent results in a cost of $500 or more.
    1.6. Obtaining Walk-In Service. Go to Customer Service, Building 8116, for walk-in service. Bring
    an AF Form 332 signed by the building manager. If your request is to replace a lost key, attach to the
    AF Form 332 a copy of DD Form 1131 signed by a finance representative and marked “paid.”
    1.7. Signing for Keys. Everyone receiving a key from 10 CES/CEOP must sign a USAFA Form 12,
    Receipt for Keys, including the following statement: “I certify that I understand that loss of the above
    keys may compromise a great number of locks and necessitate a massive cylinder change-out at sig-
    nificant expense, and I acknowledge that I may be held responsible for that expense. I further certify
    that I understand that duplication of the above-mentioned keys without prior written authorization
    from 10 CES/CEOP is prohibited and that I may be subject to disciplinary action should I allow or
    cause duplication of these keys without said authorization.” The recipient keeps one copy of the
    receipt.

2. Procedures for Building Managers:
    2.1. Key Receipts. Upon assuming duties, sign key receipts in 10 CES/CEOP before the departing
    manager leaves for reassignment, retirement, or permanent change of station. Do not issue additional
    keys or complete other lock work until you have done so.
    2.2. Briefing on Issuing and Controlling Keys. Obtain a briefing from 10 CES/CEOP on issuing
    and controlling keys.
USAFAI32-5001 25 NOVEMBER 2004                                                                            3


   2.3. Issuing and Controlling Keys. Issue keys to authorized individuals using AF Form 1297, Tem-
   porary Issue Receipt, and maintain strict control of all keys issued. Revalidate AF Forms 1297 every
   6 months in conjunction with the semiannual inventory.
   2.4. Semiannual Inventory. Conduct a semiannual inventory, in May and November, of keys issued
   and on-hand and send a separate inventory, by building, to 10 CES/CEOP. Ensure that the USAFA
   Forms 12 on file in 10 CES/CEOP agree with your inventory and resolve all deficiencies immedi-
   ately.
   2.5. Departing Personnel. Ensure that personnel departing the USAF Academy turn in all keys
   before they leave.

3. Controlling Keys:
   3.1. Handling Unauthorized Keys. Organization commanders must use every resource to purge the
   system of keys not stamped “US GOVT DO NOT DUPLICATE” and take appropriate disciplinary
   action if they find subordinates have such keys. Authorized individuals may bring keys to 10 CES/
   CEOP to be stamped and added to the inventory. Send unstamped, unauthorized, or obsolete keys to
   10 CES/CEOP for appropriate disposition.
   3.2. Avoiding Duplication of Government Keys. No one may duplicate or have a civilian firm
   duplicate US Government keys. Do not duplicate keys to high-security padlocks governed by AFI
   31-101, The Air Force Installation Security Program (FOUO), under any circumstances. Anyone
   duplicating keys in violation of this provision may be subject to disciplinary action.

4. Information Collections, Records, and Forms or Information Management Tools (IMT).
   4.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
   4.2. Records. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
   maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accor-
   dance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
   https://webrims.amc.af.mil.
   4.3. Forms or IMTs (Adopted and Prescribed).
      4.3.1. Adopted Forms or IMTs: AF Form 227, Quarters Condition Inspection Report; AF
      Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request; AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt; DD
      Form 200, Financial Liability Investigation of Property Loss; and DD Form 1131, Cash Col-
      lection Voucher.
      4.3.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs: USAFA Form 12, Receipt for Keys.



                                               THOMAS F. HAYDEN III, Col, USAF
                                               Commander, 10th Civil Engineer Squadron
