BY ORDER OF THE                                           HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                           ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3539

                                                                                24 JULY 2013

                                                                                    Personnel

                                               THE USAF ACADEMY CADET EXEMPLAR
                                                                       PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/CWVV                                             Certified by: HQ USAFA/CWV
                                                                    (Col Richard D. Anderson)
                                                                                     Pages: 5


This new instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air
Force Academy and defines the roles and responsibilities and outlines the administration of the
USAFA Cadet Exemplar Program. This instruction applies to all United States Air Force
Academy (USAFA) personnel. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

1. Program Intent. The cadet exemplar program is both a leadership development and heritage
education program. It is designed to provide a role model—in the form of an aerospace leader of
the past—for cadets of each class to emulate. It is also meant to instill pride and provide a
connection to our Nation’s Air Force heritage. As this instruction outlines below, each cadet
class will form an exemplar committee, nominate and select an exemplar, and then maintain their
identity with that exemplar through a class-wide exemplar dinner, an exemplar display case, and
other activities throughout the class’s tenure at the US Air Force Academy.
2. Selection Criteria.
   2.1. Exemplar nominees will be chosen from military officers, military-associated civilians
   and aerospace or aviation pioneers/leaders.
 2                                                              USAFAI36-3539 24 JULY 2013


     2.2. Nominees will have made an extraordinary contribution to the development of
     American air and space power.
     2.3. Nominees must be deceased. The facts of their lives should in the main be transparent
     and known.
     2.4. Nominees must have exhibited integrity and character in both their professional careers
     and their personal lives.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Superintendent (USAFA/CC). The USAFA/CC will:
        3.1.1. Maintain overall responsibility and authority for the successful execution and
        oversight of USAFA’s cadet exemplar program as outlined within this instruction.
        3.1.2. Approve the short list of exemplar nominees as presented by the cadet exemplar
        committee.
        3.1.3. Approve the final selection of an exemplar, following a decision by the class.
     3.2. Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW). The USAFA/CW will:
        3.2.1. Appoint a CW officer to serve as an advisor to the cadet exemplar committee.
        3.2.2. Fund displays, travel for speakers, honoraria, exemplar patches, and other
        associated program materials. (not from appropriated funds [APF])
            3.2.2.1. Gift funds may be used, if available. Prior coordination/approval must be
            received prior to any commitment or expenditure of funds. (USAFAI 51-601, USAF
            Academy Management and Use of Gift Funds)
            3.2.2.2. CW will submit a Gift Need Opportunities request IAW USAFA 51-601.
     3.3. Dean of the Faculty (USAFA/DF). The USAFA/DF will:
        3.3.1. Through the Department of History (DFH), appoint a DF representative to serve as
        an advisor to the cadet exemplar committee.
     3.4. The CW and DF Advisors will:
        3.4.1. Advise, mentor, and oversee the activities of the cadet exemplar committee.
        3.4.2. Assist with the coordination required with other USAF Academy mission
        elements.
        3.4.3. Ensure the cadet exemplar committee accomplishes required actions generally
        according to the timeline below.
     3.5. The cadet class president will:
        3.5.1. Appoint a class chairperson for the cadet exemplar committee.
        3.5.2. Maintain periodic oversight and contact with the cadet exemplar committee.
     3.6. The cadet exemplar committee chair will:
        3.6.1. Form a cadet exemplar committee to assist in planning and executing class
        exemplar activities.
USAFAI36-3539 24 JULY 2013                                                                    3


       3.6.2. Ensure the accomplishment of all required items listed in the timeline below.
4. Philosophy of Oversight. The cadet exemplar program is a program executed for each cadet
class by each cadet class. CW and DF advisors will maintain vigilance in ensuring the cadet
exemplar committee meets the required deadlines and accomplishes necessary coordination
during each exemplar activity. In essence, the CW and DF advisors will serve as co-mentors to
the committee and share the administrative load as the timeline below requires. The cadet
exemplar committee should form subcommittees or teams to plan and execute major program
elements such as voting, the dinner, and the display case.
5. Timeline of Events.
   5.1. Prior to Class arriving for Basic Cadet Training:
       5.1.1. CW and DF (through DFH) assign advisors.
       5.1.2. Previous class advisors and cadet exemplar committee members complete after
       action reports/lessons learned and brief new CW and DF advisors on roles and
       responsibilities.
   5.2. Fall semester of Class’s fourth-class year:
       5.2.1. Class president appoints cadet exemplar committee chair as soon as possible after
       the start of the fall semester. Cadet exemplar committee chair forms committee as soon
       as possible and contacts CWV and DFH to establish initial contact with the CW and DF
       advisors, respectively.
       5.2.2. The DF advisor provides a list of previous class exemplars and suggested class
       exemplar nominees to the cadet exemplar committee chair.
       5.2.3. The cadet exemplar committee chair solicits the class for other class exemplar
       nominees.
       5.2.4. The cadet exemplar committee reduces the list of nominees to five primary and
       two alternate nominees. During this process the DF advisor, in cooperation with the CW
       advisor, has DFH faculty experts review solicited nominees for appropriateness and
       recommends changes to the short list if required.
       5.2.5. The DF advisor assists the cadet exemplar committee with preparing the
       nomination staff package and forwards to CW, DF, and CC for approval.
       5.2.6. Once the short list is approved, the CW advisor assists the cadet exemplar
       committee with scheduling a voting session for the entire class; the class exemplar
       committee briefs the biographies of each of the five approved primary nominees and then
       the class votes.
       5.2.7. The CW advisor assists the cadet exemplar committee in formulating a budget
       plan for the dinner, dinner speaker, athletic jacket patches and other expenses and
       contacts the Gifts and Memorials Branch (HQ USAFA/CMA) for gift fund availability.
          5.2.7.1. Coordinates SSS with CW for approval to use gift funds.
       5.2.8. The CW advisor assists the cadet exemplar committee in ordering athletic jacket
       patches for the entire class.
4                                                             USAFAI36-3539 24 JULY 2013


    5.3. Spring semester of Class’s fourth-class year:
       5.3.1. The DF advisor assists the cadet exemplar committee in inviting a guest speaker
       for the exemplar dinner and in collecting/purchasing items for the exemplar display case.
       5.3.2. The CW advisor assists the cadet exemplar committee in arranging for the cadet
       uniform shop to sew exemplar patches on the class’s athletic jackets and ensuring
       availability prior to the class’s recognition ceremony.
    5.4. Summer between Class’s fourth- and third-class years:
       5.4.1. The CW advisor assists the cadet exemplar committee in selecting and scheduling
       a date for the exemplar dinner, which usually takes place during October of the class’s
       third-class year.
       5.4.2. The DF advisor assists the cadet exemplar committee in finalizing a guest speaker
       for the exemplar dinner, inviting exemplar family members (if applicable and funding
       permits), and completing the preparations of the exemplar display case, to include
       purchasing replicas of artifacts and uniforms and acquiring donated items from exemplar
       family members, USAFA Special Collections, and USAFA Museum Specialist.
    5.5. Fall semester:
       5.5.1. Cadet Exemplar Dinner. With assistance from both the CW and DF advisors, the
       cadet exemplar committee finalizes the script, sends invitations, and executes the dinner.
       CW will provide scheduling, facility, and personnel support. DF will oversee content,
       presentation, and guests.
       5.5.2. Display Case. After the exemplar dinner, the cadet exemplar committee arranges
       for the display case items to be taken to their appropriate display case in Exemplar Hall,
       located in Fairchild Hall. The display case is under the control of DFH.
       5.5.3. The DF advisor (in cooperation with the CW advisor) assists the cadet exemplar
       committee in filing paperwork for the dinner speaker honorarium, if required, and any
       other necessary costs through CMA.
    5.6. Prior to the class’s graduation:
       5.6.1. With the assistance of current and former DF advisors, members of the cadet
       exemplar committee will arrange for the return of any borrowed items in the exemplar
       display case.
       5.6.2. Prior to graduation, coordinate with HQ USAFA/CW Protocol to invite exemplar
       family to attend graduation ceremony.




                                             GREGORY J. LENGYEL, Brigadier General,
                                             USAF
                                             Commandant of Cadets
USAFAI36-3539 24 JULY 2013                                                 5


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 25 May 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
USAFAI 51-601, USAF Academy Management and Use of Gift Funds, 5 Jan 2011
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
