BY ORDER OF THE                                            HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                            ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3501

                                                                           26 FEBRUARY 2010
                                                                Certified Current, 2 March 2012
                                                                                      Personnel

                                                  USAFA CADET SCREENING FOR YOUTH
                                                                        ACTIVITIES



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website
               at www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: CWVV-D                                                                 Certified by: CWVV
Supersedes: USAFAI36-3501,                                                (Lt Col Elizabeth Orie)
            4 June 2004                                                                  Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy. It explains how cadets are selected and screened in order to participate in youth
(under age 18) related events and programs. This instruction implements Secretary of the Air
Force guidance, establishes policy, assigns responsibilities and prescribes procedures for
background checks and evaluations for all cadets involved in youth programs, that have youth
under the age of 18 in Federal facilities, or under the auspices of United States Air Force
Academy (USAFA) sanctioned activities, events or programs. This instruction applies to all
organizations, units, and offices with events, activities, and programs that occur during the
USAFA academic year and summer period. This publication does not apply to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard (ANG). USAFA will institute a
formal, systematic screening process that ensures cadets are evaluated for behavior, judgment,
and maturity factors by senior leadership prior to engaging in any event or activity involving
youth. Cadets will be screened prior to selection for youth programs or events, and again
immediately prior to the start of the program or event, for any last-minute changes in status.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AF Manual AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located
at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary
of references and supporting information.
2                                                        USAFAI 36-3501 26 FEBRUARY 2010


This instruction requires collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act
of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed in this instruction is
10 United States Code 8013, Secretary of the Air Force.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has updated the OPR and replaces all references of 34 TRW and 34 TRG with
appropriate USAFA/CW offices. Content and intent of the instruction remain the same.
1. Program and Event Participants. All USAF Academy-sanctioned programs or activities,
not expressly covered by this instruction, are required to follow the directives in this instruction.
USAFA units or offices organizing an event or sponsoring an activity involving youth will abide
by the directives contained in this instruction, and will request the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) of this instruction to include the program in the next revision. USAFA
programs or events required to comply with this instruction include:

Table 1. USAFA Youth Programs and Events.
 EVENT NAME                                               SPONSORING ORGANIZATION
 Teen Aviation Camp                                       10 FSS
 Boy Scouts of America                                    BSA
 Sports Camp                                              USAFA/AD
 Big Brothers and (or) Big Sisters                        USAFA/CW
 Cadet Air and Space Instructors                          USAFA/CW
 Cadet for a Day program                                  USAFA/CW
 Local area tutoring                                      USAFA/CW
 National Character and Leadership Symposium              USAFA/CWC
 (NCLS)
 Chemistry Olympiad                                       USAFA/DF
 Philmont Rangers                                         USAFA/DF
 American Society of Civil Engineers Camp                 USAFA/DF
 Society of American Military Engineers Camp              USAFA/DF
 Appointee Orientations                                   USAFA/RR
 Diversity Visitation Program                             USAFA/RR
 Grass Roots Program                                      USAFA/RR
 Summer Seminar                                           USAFA/RR

 NOTE: THIS LIST IS NOT ALL INCLUSIVE.

2. USAFA Policy. It is USAFA policy to:
    2.1. Establish a standardized and comprehensive process for screening cadets participating in
    programs or activities involving youth under the age of 18 on USAFA or in the local area.
    2.2. Provide fair, impartial, and equitable consideration before a cadet is disqualified from
    participating in youth programs, or related duties as part of activities covered by this
    instruction.
USAFAI 36-3501 26 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                  3


   2.3. Protect youth under age 18 by disqualifying or removing cadets from programs or
   activities involving direct contact with youth via the requirements and criteria outlined in the
   purpose statement of this publication.
3. Roles and Responsibilities:
   3.1. The Vice Superintendent (USAFA/CV) will:
       3.1.1. Ensure compliance with this instruction.
       3.1.2. Complete an annual review to determine which USAFA programs fall within the
       scope of this instruction, in addition to those listed in Table 1.
       3.1.3. Through the Information Protection Directorate (USAFA/IP), ensure Cadet
       Security Clearance applications are completed and assist as required in criminal
       background checks.
   3.2. The Commandant of Cadets, (USAFA/CW) will:
       3.2.1. Oversee the suitability of screening procedures for the Superintendent,
       Headquarters USAFA (USAFA/CC), as specified under this instruction.
       3.2.2. Develop procedures to implement this instruction, in accordance with DoD
       Instruction 1402.5., Criminal History Background Checks on Individuals In Child Care
       Services, January 19, 1993, (Paragraph E6.1.3 and E6.5.1) that outlines criteria to
       determine the appropriateness of individual cadets to participate in USAFA-sanctioned
       camps, orientations, seminars, programs or activities involving youth under the age of 18.
       3.2.3. Screen all cadets assigned to perform duties in these programs for quality force,
       judgment and maturity, as requested by program sponsors. As a minimum, cadets will be
       screened by the Air Officer Commanding and verified by the Group Air Officers
       Commanding at the time of selection and approved by USAFA/CW or Vice
       Commandant, USAFA/CWV again within two weeks of the start date of any and all
       Academy-sanctioned programs, camps, orientations, programs, or seminars employing
       cadets in positions involving direct contact with youth.
   3.3. The Commander, 10th Air Base Wing (10 ABW/CC) will:
       3.3.1. Through 10th Medical Group(10 MDG), perform medical records reviews when
       requested by USAFA/CW or USAFA/CWV to assess the medical related behavior
       outlined in paragraph 4.1.1.6.
   3.4. Youth Program OPRs or Sponsors will:
       3.4.1. Contact the Commandant of Cadets Director of Staff (USAFA/CWD) a minimum
       of two months prior to any event or program start date to initiate cadet screening per
       Section 4. No later than two weeks prior to the activity start date, review which cadets
       are assigned to the activity and ensure all cadets on the roster are screened a second time
       for any last-minute change of status and approved by USAFA/CW or USAFA/CWV.
       3.4.2. Identify points of contact in the programs listed in Table 1. Programs may be
       added to this listing per paragraph 1., or removed per annual review.
       3.4.3. OPRs or Sponsors will ensure all cadets are screened prior to any interactions
       between cadets and youth.
4                                                       USAFAI 36-3501 26 FEBRUARY 2010


4. Criteria for Records Check Disqualification:
    4.1. The list of all USAFA cadets participating in programs or events involving youth will be
    reviewed by USAFA/CW. An installation records check must be performed in accordance
    with DoD Instruction 1402.5, paragraph E6.1.3, and the cadet must have a current security
    clearance. If a current security clearance is not available, a name check of the Joint
    Clearance and Verification System (JCAVS) must be completed. All information of record,
    both favorable and unfavorable, will be assessed in terms of its relevance, recentness, and
    seriousness. Final suitability determinations will be made by the Commandant or Vice
    Commandant. USAFA criteria that will result in disqualification of a cadet include, but are
    not limited to, the following:
       4.1.1. Mandatory Disqualifying Criteria.
           4.1.1.1. Failing to possess a security clearance or to pass another form of appropriate
           national agency check applicable to criminal history background checks as referenced
           in DoD Instruction 1402.5.
           4.1.1.2. Any conviction for a criminal offense involving a child or children, any
           sexual offense, any felony, and/or any violent crime.
           4.1.1.3. Cadets who are currently on honor or conduct probation, cadets on the Cadet
           at Risk List, or cadets with a Security Information File.
           4.1.1.4. Conduct and behavior, to include improper sexual acts, that because of the
           circumstances in which they occur, may indicate untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack
           of judgment, or irresponsibility in working with children.
           4.1.1.5. Offenses involving arson, homicide, fraud, assault, battery, or other abuse of
           a victim, regardless of age of the victim, or any offense involving possession or use of
           a firearm.
           4.1.1.6. Any illness or condition (mental, physical, emotional and or behavioral) that
           in the opinion of a competent medical authority, may cause a defect in judgment
           and/or reliability.
           4.1.1.7. Evidence or documentation of substance abuse or dependency.
           4.1.1.8. Illegal or improper use, possession, or addiction to any controlled or
           psychoactive substances, narcotic, cannabis, or other dangerous drug.
       4.1.2. Discretionary Criteria (Normally Disqualifying).
           4.1.2.1. Any act by a cadet or documentation that may tend to indicate poor
           judgment, lack of maturity, unreliability, or untrustworthiness in working with others.
           4.1.2.2. A finding of negligence in a mishap causing death or serious injury to a child
           or dependent person entrusted to their care.
5. Suitability Considerations:
    5.1. In making a determination of suitability, the evaluator shall consider the following
    additional factors to the extent that these examples are considered pertinent to the individual
    cadet:
USAFAI 36-3501 26 FEBRUARY 2010                                                           5


       5.1.1. The nature and seriousness of the conduct.
       5.1.2. The recentness of the conduct.
       5.1.3. The age of the individual at the time of the conduct.
       5.1.4. The circumstances surrounding the conduct.
       5.1.5. Contributing social or environmental conditions.
6. Requirements for Program Participation:
   6.1. The USAFA/CW or USAFA/CWV, program OPRs, Sponsors, and individual cadets
   participating in programs or activities with minors will, to the maximum extent possible,
   attend the Child Abuse and Prevention Protocol briefing provided by USAFA Family
   Advocacy. This briefing is designed to protect children from abuse and to help workers
   avoid accusations of abuse. USAFA/CW may waive attendance by any cadet if
   circumstances warrant.
7. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   7.1. Prescribed Forms:
No forms are prescribed by this instruction.
   7.2. Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                               SAMUEL D. COX, Brig Gen, USAF
                                               Commandant of Cadets
6                                                    USAFAI 36-3501 26 FEBRUARY 2010


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 1 February 2007
DoD Instruction 1402.5, Criminal History Background Checks on Individuals In Child Care
Services, January 19, 1993
DoD 5400.11-R, Department of Defense Privacy Program, 13 December 1999
DoD 5200.2-R, DoD Personnel Security Program, 16 January 1987
10 United States Code 8013, Secretary of the Air Force, 1 January 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
BSA—Boy Scouts of America
JCAVS—Joint Clearance and Verification System
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
