BY ORDER OF THE                                           HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                           ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3524

                                                                         28 FEBRUARY 2008
                                                Incorporating Through Change 2, 31 MAY 2011
                                                              Certified Current, 2 March 2012
                                                                                    Personnel

                                                CADET GRADED REVIEWS AND COURSE
                                                                   EVALUATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/DFRC                                               Certified by: HQ USAFA/DFR
                                                                           (Dr. Dean H. Wilson)
Supersedes:   USAFAI36-183,                                                             Pages: 4
              20 January 2000


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, and outlines procedures used in administering evaluations and in predicting and
analyzing cadet grade distributions. It applies to all USAFA personnel who give and grade cadet
evaluations. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and
the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the opening paragraph. It also updates office titles from the Office
of the Registrar to Student Academic Affairs and Academy Registrar. Additionally, it updates
the office title from Academic Scheduling to Academic Scheduling and Customer Services and
updates office symbol from DFRS to DFRR. A margin bar (|) indicates revisions from the
previous edition.
 2                                                        USAFAI36-3524 28 FEBRUARY 2008




1. Evaluations:
     1.1. Graded Take-Home Evaluations. Dean of the Faculty (HQ USAFA/DF) departments
     will not normally give take-home examinations. The Vice Dean of the Faculty
     (HQ USAFA/DFV) may make exceptions to this procedure. Routine homework assignments
     may be graded but this must be specified beforehand. Any exceptions to individual effort
     must be specified in writing in assigning graded homework
     1.2. Final Examination Exemptions for Exceptional Students. At the department head’s
     discretion, a final examination exemption procedure may be established in core and elective
     courses. The procedure must meet the following criteria:
        1.2.1. The excused cadets must have a clear “A” in the course upon completion of all
        graded work during the 40 lessons. Further, they must have demonstrated successful
        integration of all course material and consistent high-quality performance throughout the
        course.
        1.2.2. Up to 5 percent of course enrollment, as measured at lesson 40, may be excused
        from the final exam in any course. Departments must submit a listing of excused cadets
        to Student Academic Affairs and Academy Registrar (HQ USAFA/DFR) prior to the
        final exam period.
     1.3. Makeup Evaluations. Cadets will make up all final examinations missed unless
     exempted as described in paragraph 1.2. HQ USAFA/DF departments may require cadets
     to make up any quizzes or graded reviews (GR) missed. A cadet may take a GR or final
     examination at a date later than normally scheduled if the HQ USAFA/DF department head
     determines that the cadet has not had sufficient opportunity to make up missed instruction. If
     a cadet misses a large number of regular evaluations or if unusual circumstances prevail, a
     HQ USAFA/DF department may schedule the cadet for a special course-end evaluation. A
     makeup final examination takes precedence over regularly scheduled classes if there is a
     conflict. If a cadet misses a scheduled GR due to a trip or other authorized absence, the
     HQ USAFA/DF department head may allow the cadet to complete a makeup GR. Makeup
     GRs are normally administered during the cadet's free academic periods. HQ USAFA/DF
     departments will comply with paragraph 4 when administering makeup GRs.
     1.4. Rescheduling     GRs. Academic        Scheduling    and      Customer      Services
     (HQ USAFA/DFRR) prints and distributes a master schedule of GRs at the beginning of each
     semester. An HQ USAFA/DF department head may allow a cadet with three or more GRs
     on the same day to complete the GR given by that particular department or squadron on
     another mutually agreeable day, as long as the GR being delayed is not a common GR.
     Rescheduled GRs are normally administered during the cadet's free academic periods. HQ
     USAFA/DF departments will comply with paragraph 4 when rescheduling GRs.
     1.5. Cadet Term Papers and Reports. The respective HQ USAFA/DF department head is
     responsible for scheduling themes, reports, and term papers for specific courses. However,
     the cadet must submit all such reports or papers to the instructor no later than the last day of
     regularly scheduled classes. Failure to do so normally warrants an "I" grade and academic
     probation, based on USAFAI 36-3504, Assigning and Processing Formal Grades.
USAFAI36-3524 28 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                 3


2. Evaluation Frequency. A cadet is expected to be prepared to participate and to recite any
time during class unless excused under AFCW instructions or by the Command Surgeon. A
cadet may expect to be evaluated on oral or written work at any class attendance. Within each
grading period, all cadets in a course should receive approximately the same number of
evaluations.
3. Evaluation Weight. HQ USAFA/DF department heads ensure that weights assigned to
different types of evaluations are in proportion to the overall importance of the evaluations to
course learning objectives. However, a final examination must be 2 or more hours in length, and
must count for at least 25 percent of the course grade.
4. Academic Security:
   4.1. Regular Examination Offerings. All multi-section 100- and 200- level courses will
   have 3 substantially different (at least 50% different by content), but equitable, versions of
   the GR. Two versions are to be randomly administered by section across a course. For each
   substantially different in-class version, where appropriate, departments will develop two
   different sub-versions in which the order (not the content) of the questions are different.
   These sub-versions will randomize the order of multiple choice, True/False, and matching
   questions and will also be randomly administered by section. These requirements will result
   in minimum total of four different exams for in-class offerings. An additional substantially
   different version will be administered for make-up GRs. Department Heads had discretion to
   required additional versions of a GR.
       4.1.1. All 300- and 400-level courses may have the same in-class GR over the entire M-
       & T- day cycle (period M-1 through period T-7).
       4.1.2. Once cadets have taken any version of a GR, they may not discuss the GR or the
       course material with anyone except their instructor until the GR is no longer under
       academic security. This includes not discussing the exam with other cadets who have
       taken the exam. Cadets wanting to help each other study for an exam can only do so as
       long as none of the cadets studying together have taken the exam.
   4.2. Makeup Examination. The department head will prescribe the arrangements for
   makeup examinations. If a makeup exam will not be administered to other cadets, then it is
   released from academic security immediately after it is administered. If a makeup exam will
   be administered to other cadets, then it will be held under academic security for the minimum
   period required.
5. Grades Distribution. Data Management Information (HQ USAFA/DFRI) will compute
predicted grade distributions for all graded courses each semester and send this data to each
HQ USAFA/DF department head and the Deputy Director of Athletics, Physical
Education/Intercollegiates (HQ USAFA/ADP), not later than 1 week prior to the latest due date
for submitting grades at mid-semester and end-of-semester. The distribution will not predict C-,
D, or F grades separately, but rather will predict a combined C-, D, and F percentage.
   5.1. Grade Prediction Process. Grade distribution percentages for each course are
   determined by aptitude and achievement measures for cadets enrolled. Input criteria for
   individual cadets are based on academic composites for first semester cadets. For cadets
   entering from the USAFA Preparatory School, the academic composite score is based on
   their performance (grade point average) at the Preparatory School. For cadets entering from
 4                                                       USAFAI36-3524 28 FEBRUARY 2008


     any other source, the academic composite score is based on each cadet’s Scholastic Aptitude
     Test (SAT) or American College Test (ACT) aptitude scores plus a prior academic record
     (PAR) score from high school. For cadets beyond their first semester, grade point average
     and related sciences and humanities indices are input to the grade prediction model, resulting
     in three separate grade distribution predictions for each course.
     5.2. Using Predicted Grade Distributions. Because HQ USAFA/DF department heads and
     HQ USAFA/ADP assign letter grades that reflect student performance, actual grades may
     vary from historical or predicted grade distributions. These predicted grade distributions are
     provided only as a tool for periodic management reviews.
6. Grade Distribution Analysis. HQ USAFA/DFR prepares actual grade distribution analyses
twice each semester: after grades have been assigned at the mid-semester progress report and at
the end of the semester grade report. The format will be department or agency specific, including
summaries of predicted and actual grade data as well as information on cadet aptitude. Each
HQ USAFA/DF department head and HQ USAFA/ADP receives the analysis pertaining to their
respective department or agency. The Dean of the Faculty receives the entire analysis for all
departments, by department and course.
7. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     7.1. Prescribed Forms. No forms are prescribed by this instruction.
     7.2. Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                              DANA H. BORN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                              Dean of the Faculty
