BY ORDER OF THE                                        HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
SUPERINTENDENT                                                          INSTRUCTION 36-2102
                                                                                        11 AUGUST 2008
                                                                       Certified Current 4 September 2012
                                                                                                Personnel

                                                               USAFA SISTER SERVICE EXCHANGE
                                                                             OFFICER PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: This publication has no releasability restrictions.


OPR: USAFA/DPA                                                                 Certified by: USAFA/DPA
                                                                                  (Lt Col Alan Gladfelter)
                                                                                                Pages: 8

This new instruction defines the roles and responsibilities and outlines the administration of USAFA
officers performing exchange duty at the Sister Service academies. It implements Air Force Policy Direc-
tive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, and AFPD 36-21, Utilization and Classification of
Air Force Military Personnel. The purpose of the officer exchange program is to place USAFA officers
in a unique environment with Sister Service officers, enlisted members, and cadets while creating a sym-
biotic learning experience that helps highlight each service’s capabilities. The exchange program further
serves to familiarize those involved with the people that will support them while fighting our nation’s ene-
mies as part of a Joint force. This instruction applies to active duty USAFA personnel. It does not apply to
Air National Guard or United States Air Force Reserve units or members. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes pre-
scribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https:/
/www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and support-
ing information.


1. Program. This high visibility program is of special interest to the USAFA Superintendent. It recog-
nizes the importance of USAFA officers located at Sister Service academies as filling vital, selectively
manned positions that represent USAFA and the Air Force at large to the Sister Service academy popula-
tion.

2. Program Intent.
   2.1. To promote joint military relationships by placing officers in a joint working environment and by
   enabling foundational exposure of cadets of Sister Service academies to officers of the U.S. Air Force
   and thereby to Air Force tenets, values, roles and missions.
2                                                                  USAFAI36-2102 11 AUGUST 2008


    2.2. It is intended that there be a “one-for-one” exchange of personnel between the corresponding
    academies. The Dean of Faculty, Commandant, and Athletic Department are encouraged to maintain
    an active relationship with the corresponding organization at the Sister Service academy where like
    officers are assigned. Similarly, a one-for-one relationship should exist between corresponding offices
    under the Commandant’s purview (i.e. Air Officer Commanding (AOC) – Tactical Officer (TAC)).

3. Responsibilities.
    3.1. Superintendent (USAFA/CC). The USAFA/CC will:
       3.1.1. Maintain overall responsibility and authority for the successful execution and oversight of
       USAFA’s exchange officer program as outlined within this instruction.
       3.1.2. Periodically seek feedback from the Dean, Commandant and Athletic Director about their
       officers serving at sister academies as well as Sister Service exchange officers assigned to
       USAFA.
       3.1.3. On a recurring basis (possibly during the Conference of Service Academy Superinten-
       dents), discuss the faculty exchange program with Sister Service leadership.
    3.2. Vice Superintendent (USAFA/CV). The USAFA/CV will:
       3.2.1. Be responsible for negotiations of Memorandums of Agreement (MOAs) defining the con-
       cept and details of the instructor exchange officer programs between USAFA and the Sister Ser-
       vice Academies in accordance with this instruction.
    3.3. Dean of the Faculty (USAFA/DF). The USAFA/DF will:
       3.3.1. Exercise SR responsibilities for USAFA faculty officers assigned to Sister Service acade-
       mies who are under the Dean of Faculty’s purview.
       3.3.2. Execute MOAs with Sister Service academies concerning instructor exchange officer pro-
       grams.
       3.3.3. Review and provide update recommendations and coordination on existing Sister Service
       instructor exchange officer program MOAs. Initiate new exchange officer MOA or requested revi-
       sions to existing exchange program MOAs for USAFA/CC approval and signature.
       3.3.4. Ensure highly motivated and fully qualified officers are considered and selected to serve as
       faculty at a sister academy by supporting selection processes such as By-Name Requests (BNR)
       and reviewing standard Air Force Personnel Center (AFPC) requisitions for exchange officer fill
       requirements.
       3.3.5. Ensure DF departments assist corresponding Sister Service departments hosting AF
       exchange officer positions to identify and hire qualified exchange faculty officers so to minimize
       any USAFA billet at a Sister Service academy going unfilled.
       3.3.6. Periodically seek feedback from DF Department Heads about exchange officers.
       3.3.7. On a recurring basis (possibly during the service academy Dean’s conference), discuss the
       faculty exchange program with Deans from Sister Service academies. Recommended discussion
       items should encompass the successes and challenges experienced in the previous year; a discus-
       sion regarding the upcoming year and whether additional exchange positions should be added,
USAFAI36-2102 11 AUGUST 2008                                                                        3


     moved, or eliminated from the program or should exchange officer requirements be moved
     between departments.
  3.4. Dean of Faculty Department Heads. DF Department Heads will:
     3.4.1. Periodically communicate with corresponding Sister Service Department Heads hosting
     exchange officers in like departments to ascertain how the officers are performing and to discuss
     any other relevant information or upcoming actions (i.e. OPRs, PRFs, reassignments, or other
     exchange issues).
     3.4.2. When reassignment of an AF exchange officer at a sister academy becomes imminent,
     assist in an advisory role in the assignment process with the Dean of Faculty personnel represen-
     tative and USAFA/DPA to identify qualified backfills.
     3.4.3. When hosting a Sister Service exchange officer billet, articulate fill requirements to the
     Dean of Faculty personnel representative who will in-turn work with the respective Sister Service
     senior representative for a fill action.
  3.5. Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW). The USAFA/CW will:
     3.5.1. Exercise SR responsibilities for all USAFA officers assigned under a Sister Services’ Com-
     mandant’s purview.
     3.5.2. Review and provide update recommendations and coordination on existing Sister Service
     MOAs concerning USMA TAC or USNA Company Officer (CO) programs as applicable. Coor-
     dinates new and existing USMA TAC or USNA Company Officer CO MOA updates/terminations
     for USAFA/CC approval and signature.
     3.5.3. Maintain a selective assignment process and development program for officers selected for
     USMA TAC or USNA CO programs to ensure they are appropriately prepared. Air Force
     exchange TACs/COs will:
        3.5.3.1. Be majors or major selects.
        3.5.3.2. Be recommended through the same central command board process established by
        AFPC, in coordination with the Developmental Education Designation Board, used to select
        USAFA AOCs.
        3.5.3.3. Attend the USMA/USNA one-year master’s degree program, prior to beginning their
        two-year command assignment. IDE credit will be awarded upon completion of prerequisites
        and successful TAC/CO tour.
     3.5.4. Periodically ask for feedback about officer(s) serving at a sister academy.
     3.5.5. On a recurring basis, discuss the officer exchange program with Commandants from Sister
     Service academies.
     3.5.6. Make the final selection of the AF exchange TAC and CO.
  3.6. USAFA Athletic Director (USAFA/AD). The USAFA/AD will:
     3.6.1. Exercise SR responsibilities for USAFA faculty officers assigned to Sister Service academy
     athletic programs.
     3.6.2. Review and provide update recommendations and coordination on existing Sister Service
     MOAs pertaining to coaching faculty exchange officers.
4                                                                   USAFAI36-2102 11 AUGUST 2008


       3.6.3. Assist in the identification and selection of highly motivated and fully qualified officers to
       serve as faculty/coaches at a sister academy by supporting selection processes such as BNRs and
       reviewing Sister Service requisitions to AFPC for quality control and completeness.
       3.6.4. Periodically communicate with corresponding Sister Service Athletic Departments hosting
       or owning exchange officers to ascertain how the officers are performing and to discuss any other
       relevant information or issues pertaining to the exchange program.
    3.7. USMA AF Liaison Officer (USMA AFLO) and USNA Senior AF Representative. U S A FA
    Liaison Officers (AFLO) at Sister Service academies will:
       3.7.1. Serve as instructors. Ensure USAF culture, core values, policies and procedures are main-
       tained by USAF personnel (officer and cadets) while assigned to USMA/USNA.
       3.7.2. Advise Deans of Faculty for both USAFA and USMA/USNA respectively on activities,
       issues, and concerns relevant to their missions and ensure open communication takes place
       between both organizations.
       3.7.3. Facilitate coordination and approval by hosting Sister Service academy leadership on all
       new or existing changes/updates to Sister Service exchange officer program MOAs with USAFA.
       3.7.4. Serve as AF cross-commissioning action officer at assigned Sister Service academy and
       provides broad exposure to U.S. Air Force values, tenets, roles and missions. Coordinate regular
       (i.e. monthly) USAFA faculty interaction to provide for professional development opportunities
       among assigned USAF exchange officers and ensure USAFA exchange cadets at Sister Service
       academy have AF faculty sponsorship.
       3.7.5. Coordinate and facilitate the management and administration of the USAF exchange offic-
       ers assigned to respective Sister Service academy. Act as the focal point to ensure all USAF
       requirements and reports are accomplished IAW USAF instructions. While not the rating official,
       has responsibility to educate hosting Sister Service academy supervising personnel who serve as
       exchange officers’ primary raters on AF requirements and Instructions for Performance Feedback,
       Officer Performance Reports (OPRs), Promotion Recommendation Forms (PRFs) and other AF
       administrative actions. Track and ensure reports are properly completed and forwarded to
       USAFA/DF and/or HQ USAFA/CSS in a timely manner. The Senior AF Representatives will have
       the authority to delegate tasks to USAFA exchange officers assigned to their respective Sister Ser-
       vice academies as necessary; maintains ultimate responsibility for proper completion of the duties.
       3.7.6. Assignment management. Manage USAFA billets at respective Sister Service Academy
       and coordinates with the Dean of Faculty of both hosting Sister Service academy and USAFA (or
       their assigned representative) to ensure the exchange AF instructor requirements of the Sister Ser-
       vice academy are facilitated. This responsibility includes coordinating with interested USAF
       officers and the respective Sister Service academic departments to ensure applicants meet qualifi-
       cations and standards set by the USMA Dean/USNA Division Director. Maintains and updates
       timely assignment requisitions and submits reclammas in order to meet the program intent set
       forth in this instruction.
       3.7.7. Coordinate and manage USAF Exchange Officers’ additional duties. The host service acad-
       emy should coordinate with the Senior AF Representatives to ensure equitable additional duty
       tasking for USAF exchange officers. Acts as unit commander for all inprocessing and outprocess-
       ing actions except those reserved for a commander with UCMJ authority (“G” series orders.)
USAFAI36-2102 11 AUGUST 2008                                                                          5


     Ensures retirement ceremonies, decorations and official farewells are properly completed and
     meet USAF standards.
  3.8. USMMA Air Force Liaison Officer (USMMA AFLO). USMMA AFLO will:
     3.8.1. Perform AF liaison duties for Superintendents/Deans of USAFA and USMMA. Provide AF
     perspective, leadership and logistics & transportation expertise in the education of USMMA mid-
     shipmen. Instruct and revise core courses in logistics, aviation, transportation, and AF commis-
     sioning.
     3.8.2. Facilitate coordination and approval by USMMA leadership on all new or existing changes/
     updates to Sister Service exchange officer program MOAs with USAFA.
     3.8.3. Recruit USMMA midshipmen to be commissioned in the AF.
  3.9. USAFA Exchange Officers. USAFA exchange officers assigned to a Sister Service academy
  will:
     3.9.1. Perform instructor duties as directed by the organization they are assigned to.
     3.9.2. Keep AFLO informed on all issues and concerns pertaining to their assigned duties.
     3.9.3. Assist raters and additional raters in the preparation of OPRs, PRFs, leaves, and other
     administrative actions.
     3.9.4. Process administrative/finance actions to the greatest extent possible with the appropriate
     POCs at USAFA and/or the HQ USAFA Commander Support Staff and servicing Force Support
     Squadron.
  3.10. Sister Service Exchange Officers. Sister Service exchange officers assigned to USAFA will:
     3.10.1. Perform duties as directed in the assigned Mission Element.
     3.10.2. Identify a senior ranking officer from each of the Services assigned at USAFA under the
     exchange officer program. The senior service exchange officers will coordinate and facilitate the
     management and administration of the exchange officers from their respective Service. Senior ser-
     vice exchange officers advise AF supervisors and USAFA ME leadership on activities, issues,
     concerns and perspectives relevant to the Sister Service exchange officer program.
     3.10.3. Keep their respective senior service exchange officer regularly informed on all issues and
     concerns pertaining to their assigned duties.
     3.10.4. Participate in the replacement assignment process as directed by the respective senior ser-
     vice officer. Senior service exchange officers work with their respective service personnel assign-
     ment office to backfill vacant Sister Service exchange officer positions.
         3.10.4.1. Sister Service senior exchange officers review selected matched exchange officers
         provided by their respective personnel assignment offices to ensure they meet internal qualifi-
         cations and requirements. If identified inbound exchange officers do not match with the
         required skill-set, USAFA/DP will assist in discussions with ME representatives to facilitate
         mutually beneficial swaps that best meet USAFA mission needs.
  3.11. HQ USAFA Commander’s Support Staff (HQ USAFA/CSS). HQ USAFA/CSS will:
     3.11.1. Provide CSS functions as applicable to USAFA exchange officers located at the sister
     academies who are serviced by 10 MSS.
6                                                                   USAFAI36-2102 11 AUGUST 2008


    3.12. Director of Manpower and Personnel (USAFA/DP). USAFA/DP will:
       3.12.1. Coordinate with AFLOs, and Dean of Faculty Personnel Representative on AF exchange
       officer fill requirements for Sister Service academy positions. Submit fill requirements to respec-
       tive AFPC assignment teams to backfill vacancies with qualified AF exchange officers.
           3.12.1.1. Coordinate with AFPC to obtain one of their Squadron Officer School quotas for
           inbound company grade officers to Sister Service exchange officer positions who have not
           attended in residence. If no quotas are available, USAFA/DPA will pass this information to the
           Dean of Faculty personnel representative to enter the officer into their nominative process.
       3.12.2. Act as advisor to ME representatives to include Army, Navy, United States Marine Corps
       (USMC) senior representatives on any potential Sister Service exchange officer assignment issues
       (e.g. a Service will fill fewer positions due to manning constraints, etc.). Once USAFA exchange
       officer requirements are validated by Sister Service senior exchange officers, the senior represen-
       tative will work with their respective service personnel assignment office to identify/hire officers.
       In the case of a potential Sister Service shortfall, USAFA/DP will assist in prioritizing the Sister
       Service fill requirements (i.e. more important to have an exchange officer commanding a cadet
       squadron than instructing/coaching in AD or DF).

4. UCMJ authority. UCMJ authority over assigned exchange officers remains at the officer’s home ser-
vice academy.

5. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
    5.1. Prescribed Forms. No forms are prescribed by this instruction.
    5.2. Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.



                                               KATHRYN G. STATEN, Colonel, USAF
                                               Director, Manpower and Personnel
USAFAI36-2102 11 AUGUST 2008                                     7


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AD—Athletic Department
AF—Air Force
AFLO—Air Force Liaison Officer
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
BNR—By Name Request
CO—Company Officer
CSS—Commander’s Support Staff
DF—Dean of Faculty
DoD—Department of Defense
DP—Directorate of Manpower and Personnel
IDE—Intermediate Developmental Education
ME—Mission Element
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPR—Officer Performance Report
POC—Point of Contact
PRF—Promotion Recommendation Form
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SR—Senior Rater
TAC—Tactical Officer
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
8                                             USAFAI36-2102 11 AUGUST 2008


USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USMA—United States Military Academy
USMC—United States Marine Corps
USMMA—United States Merchant Marine Academy
USNA—United States Naval Academy
