BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                              ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 34-104

                                                                           17 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                                          Services

                                                           OPERATING THE CADET DINING
                                                                             FACILITY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 FSS/FSLF                                                        Certified by: 10 FSS/FSL
                                                                                 (Mr. Ross Ryan)
Supersedes:    USAFAI34-401,                                                            Pages: 12
               31 October 2006


This publication implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-1, Air Force Services
Combat Support Programs, and references Department of Defense (DoD) Financial
Management Regulation 7000.14-R, Volume 12, Chapter 20, Military Academy Dining Hall
Operations. It establishes operating responsibilities and procedures for the United States Air
Force Academy (USAFA) Cadet Dining Facility. It applies to all USAFA activities including
tenants. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the
Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.               See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been renumbered from USAFAI 34-401 to USAFAI 34-104 to align with
the AFPD being implemented. This document is substantially revised and must be completely
reviewed. This revision clarifies and updates responsibilities, policies, and authorized use of the
Cadet Dining Facility. It replaces changes formerly contained in policy letters and incorporates
rules for use of Cadet Unit Level (CUL) Funds.
1. Operating the Cadet Food Services (Mitchell Hall).
 2                                                        USAFAI34-104 17 NOVEMBER 2011


     1.1. The Director, 10th Force Support Squadron, Cadet Food Services Branch
     (10 FSS/FSLF), operates the Cadet Dining Facility, Mitchell Hall, to provide complete
     subsistence for the Air Force Academy Cadet Wing and to USAFA activities directly related
     to the Cadet Wing.
2. Authorized Personnel.
     2.1. Cadets and Others Authorized. The Cadet dining facility exists for Cadets and is
     generally limited to their use; however, other authorized users as stated in paragraph 2.2. and
     2.3. may subsist under various circumstances, with appropriate approval, so long as they
     reimburse the dining facility at the current Table of Rates. Under this instruction, consuming
     any part of a meal is considered consuming a full meal and all charges apply.
     2.2. Temporarily Authorized Diners:
        2.2.1. Eligible Customers.        AFI 34-239, Food Service Management Program,
        Attachment 9, Eligible Customers and What They are Charged in APF Food Service
        Facilities, authorizes the installation commander to make a determination of who may
        dine in a food service facility when it is in the best interest of USAFA and no other
        adequate food service facilities are available. This authorization is required to be
        obtained by the requestor prior to the function taking place.
        2.2.2. Limited personnel other than Academy Staff or employees may dine at meals if
        doing so is in the best interest of the USAFA. Guests not specifically identified in this
        instruction require prior coordination with 10 FSS/FSLF. Guests will pay for meals at
        the appropriate Table of Rates unless otherwise noted in this instruction. For special
        functions such as banquets or dining-ins, guests pay for cost of food and all applicable
        surcharges.
        2.2.3. Special Orientation Groups. Generally, special groups may dine on the main floor
        with the Cadet Wing provided there is a benefit to the Cadets and the group is sponsored
        by an appropriate agency, such as Protocol (HQ USAFA/DSP), Director of the Office of
        Admissions (HQ USAFA/RR), Plans and Programs (HQ USAFA/A5/8/9), or an
        Academic Department. A Point of Contact for payment purposes will be identified at
        time of the request. Cadets must escort all guests. Advance notice is required to ensure
        there are no conflicts with other groups.
        2.2.4. Guests of Cadets or USAFA Staff, Military and Civilian. Mandatory meals are
        military formations and civilians normally may not attend. Per AFCWMAN 36-3501,
        The Cadet Sight Picture, paragraph 1.10.8.2., neither Cadets nor authorized diners may
        have guests (military, civilian friends or relatives) at these meals. Cadets and USAFA
        staff may invite guests, civilian or military, to optional buffet meals only. Guests pay for
        meals at the current Table of Rates and all applicable surcharges, payment payable to the
        cashier located near the entry point of the buffet line. Mitchell Hall employees may only
        purchase a meal for themselves and on occasion a meal for a guest during meal periods if
        they are working that shift. 10 FSS/FSLF has final approval or disapproval for request of
        employee guest meals.
        2.2.5. Cadet Candidates. Bona fide Cadet Candidates registered with the HQ
        USAFA/RR may dine with the Cadet Wing when escorted by a Cadet. They pay for
        meals at the current Table of Rates and all applicable surcharges.
USAFAI34-104 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                   3


     2.2.6. Cadets of Other Academies. Cadets of other service academies visiting the
     USAFA on official invitations are extended reciprocal privileges and subsist at the
     expense of the Cadet Subsistence Fund. Nonreimbursable support has traditionally been
     a matter of exchange with other service academies. This does not include Officer
     Training School, Reserve Officers Training Corps, or Prep School cadets who must pay
     for meals at the current Table of Rates. A Cadet of another academy that is on leave
     status or visiting must pay for any meals consumed at the current Table of Rates.
     2.2.7. Athletics.    Visiting athletic recruits authorized through coordination with
     10 FSS/FSLFS may eat in the dining facility. The current Table of Rates and all
     applicable surcharges apply. The Athletic Department provides athletic recruits with
     meal tickets that must be turned in to the waiter supervisor. The Athletic Department
     transfers funds directly to 10 FSS/FSR for reimbursement. Staff members of the Athletic
     Department may subsist at training tables with their teams but are required to pay for
     their meals at the current Table of Rates and all applicable surcharges, payment payable
     to the cashier.
         2.2.7.1. Unofficial recruits, students who are not authorized recruit status by virtue of
         their high school grade level, are authorized to visit USAFA as an unofficial recruit.
         These students are required to pay for any and all expenses relating to the USAFA
         visit to include meals consumed in Mitchell Hall. They will be escorted by a USAFA
         athlete to any meals they attend and are required to pay for meals at the current Table
         of Rates and all applicable surcharges. The Athletic Department will provide
         unofficial recruits with a meal pass that instructs them to report to the Staff Tower to
         pay for meals prior to joining team tables. The USAFA escort will also be instructed
         to ensure these guests are escorted to the cashier located on the Staff Tower prior to
         the meal.
  2.3. Permanently Authorized Diners:
     2.3.1. On-duty employees of Mitchell Hall may eat in the dining facility at the current
     Table of Rates and all applicable surcharges. Employees who are guests at special
     functions pay the cost of food and applicable surcharges. Employees are limited to one
     meal per day, which must be consumed on site; to go meals are not authorized. 10
     FSS/FSLF may approve additional meals for employees (usually in special circumstances
     such as off-site catering and employees working overtime).
     2.3.2. The following individuals may eat in the dining facility at the current Table of
     Rates and all applicable surcharges if consumption of the meal is a function of their duty.
     They pay cost of the food and surcharge for special functions.
         2.3.2.1. USAFA Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC). Vice Superintendent (HQ
         USAFA/CV). USAFA Director of Staff (HQ USAFA/DS).
         2.3.2.2. 10th Air Base Wing Commander (10 ABW/CC). 10th Air Base Wing Vice
         Commander (10 ABW/CV). 10th Mission Support Group Commander (10
         MSG/CC).
         2.3.2.3. Command Surgeon; Chief, Environmental Health Services.
         2.3.2.4. Aide-de-Camp, Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CCA).
 4                                                       USAFAI34-104 17 NOVEMBER 2011


            2.3.2.5. Director of Protocol or a protocol-sponsored escort (only when escorting
            authorized guests).
            2.3.2.6. Commandant of Cadets and Vice Commandants.
            2.3.2.7. Executive Officer to the Commandant of Cadets.
            2.3.2.8. Cadet Wing Training Director (USAFA/CWT) and Deputy.
            2.3.2.9. 306th Flying Training Group (306 FTG/CC) Commander.
            2.3.2.10. Director and Deputy Director, Center for Character Development
            (USAFA/CWC).
            2.3.2.11. Group and Deputy Group Air Officers Commanding (AOC).
            2.3.2.12. Squadron and Associate Air Officers Commanding (AOC) and Academy
            Military Trainers (AMTs).
            2.3.2.13. Wing and Group Superintendents.
            2.3.2.14. Officer of the Day, Squadron Training Officers, Squadron Professional
            Ethics Officers, Cadet Squadron Mentors, Associate AOC for Academics, and
            Squadron Athletic Representatives.
            2.3.2.15. Dean and Vice Dean of the Faculty (USAFA/DF), Executive Officer on
            official duty, and Department or Staff Agency heads on official duty.
            2.3.2.16. Director of Athletics (USAFA/AD) and Vice Director of Athletics
            (USAFA/ADV).
            2.3.2.17. Director of the office of Admissions (HQ USAFA/RR).
            2.3.2.18. Staff members of the Department of Athletics (when accompanying
            athletes).
            2.3.2.19. Chaplains assigned to cadet-related functions.
            2.3.2.20. Faculty, Staff Officers and Civilian Professors are invited on a once a
            month basis to join a cadet squadron for breakfast or noon meal formation.
            2.3.2.21. Inspector General (HQ USAFA/IG) and staff (as part of an official
            inspection) at a rate determined by the current Table of Rates.
3. Alcohol and Smoking Restrictions in Mitchell Hall.
     3.1. Alcoholic beverages are authorized in Mitchell Hall under the following guidance.
        3.1.1. Alcoholic beverages served during a banquet for the purpose of a toast must be
        provided by the POC of the special function. The serving of the alcoholic beverage must
        be approved by the Commandant of Cadets through an AF Form 1768, Staff Summary
        Sheet. The POC is required to coordinate on a special function contract for the alcoholic
        beverages and provide a copy of the approved Staff Summary Sheet to the Special
        Functions coordinator.
        3.1.2. Resale of alcoholic beverages for special functions is generally limited to the
        Graduation Reception. All resale of alcoholic beverages at special functions will be
        provided by 10 FSS organizations and must be contracted by Cadet Food Services.
USAFAI34-104 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                   5


      Coordination for a resale operation of alcoholic beverages must be completed on a
      special function contract.
   3.2. The POC of each special function is required to insure that all personnel maintain
   standards of conduct when consuming alcoholic beverages. Cadet Food Service personnel
   are not responsible for distribution or control over alcoholic beverages except on rare
   occasions. When 10 FSS organizations sell alcoholic beverages in conjunction with Cadet
   Services Functions, that organization (in most instances the Academy Falcon Club) is
   responsible for practice of Dram Shop Theory.
   3.3. Smoking in Mitchell Hall is prohibited.
   3.4. Mitchell Hall employees may smoke outside the building only in approved designated
   areas. Employees are required to use butt cans or other designated receptacles.
4. Special Functions and Using Special Dining Areas.
   4.1. Mitchell Hall special dining areas are available only as described in this section. All
   requests must be submitted to 10 FSS/FSLFS, Special Functions Coordinator.
   4.2. Class Dinners are authorized to use the main dining floor. Coordination must be made a
   minimum of 90 days in advance of the desired date through the Special Functions
   Coordinator with the final count 14 days prior to any special function or class banquet.
   4.3. Staff Tower. The Staff Tower is reserved for HQ USAFA/CC, Commandant of Cadets
   and USAFA Dean of Faculty (HQ USAFA/DF). Other USAFA support activities may use
   the Staff Tower on a space-available basis as long as the function directly supports the Cadet-
   training mission. Generally, rank of Lieutenant Colonel or above or civilian equivalent is
   required to host a 10-person (minimum of six-people) table. The rank requirement may be
   waived when delegated by a commander or department head. All reservations should be
   submitted 14 days in advance and require a 24-hour cancellation notice.
      4.3.1. Congressional Staffers, Board of Visitors and Educators who are key elements in
      admissions, academics and policy matters are extended the privilege to dine on the staff
      tower. Sponsoring agencies will coordinate in advance for such support. They pay cost
      of the food and surcharge for special functions.
      4.3.2. During the academic year, the Staff Tower is open Monday-Friday during the
      noon meal only. A request to dine on the tower must be submitted 14 days prior to the
      event date. The Staff Tower has as maximum of 10 available tables, which can seat 10
      people each on any given day. Through coordination with Protocol, guests or
      organizations will be ranked in regards to the availability of these seats. Guests or
      organizations with a higher mission or benefit to the USAFA will have priority.
   4.4. Formal Dining Room. Cadet Squadrons, recognized Cadet Clubs, and other USAFA
   support groups approved by 10 FSS/FSLF may reserve the Formal Dining Room during the
   academic year. PLEASE NOTE: The Formal/Informal Dining Rooms and other Cadet Food
   Service Special Function areas are designated for the support of USAFA cadets. Cadet Food
   Services cannot by law support Air force morale functions such as hail and farewells,
   commander’s calls, or private noncadet related functions. Director, Cadet Food Services,
   will make the final determination. Requests to reserve the dining room should be submitted
   to 10 FSS/FSLFS a minimum of 30 days in advance for tentative approval. The maximum
 6                                                       USAFAI34-104 17 NOVEMBER 2011


     capacity of the room is 134. Availability is first come, first served. Functions must normally
     meet the following criteria:
        4.4.1. The function must be sponsored by and be primarily for Cadets. At least 60
        percent of the participants must be Cadets. There must be at least 75 people in
        attendance.
        4.4.2. If a special menu is required, it must be coordinated with the Special Functions
        Coordinator (10 FSS/FSLFS) NLT 30 days before the function.
        4.4.3. Only 1 formal function may be booked by an organization per year.
        4.4.4. The organization’s Cadet-In-Charge (CIC) or Officer-In-Charge (OIC) completes
        arrangements through the Special Functions Coordinator. Mitchell Hall will be
        reimbursed for the cost of food and all applicable surcharges for all noncadet meals.
        4.4.5. The CIC and/or OIC reimburse the 10 FSS/FSLF for all costs incurred for guests
        and pays for the function in advance. The CIC and/or OIC are responsible for the
        accuracy of the meal count. Any cancellations must be made 72 hours in advance.
5. Supporting Special Functions outside Mitchell Hall.
     5.1. Requests for these events must first be made to 10 FSS/FSLFS at least 45 days in
     advance to ensure Mitchell Hall can support and to allow for proper coordination.
     5.2. Authorized Special Functions Support: The following personnel and organizations may
     receive catering support outside the dining facility after coordination with the Special
     Functions Coordinator is as follows:
        5.2.1. HQ USAFA/CC, Commandant of Cadets, USAFA/DF, and USAFA/AD hosting
        special functions when such functions represent an extension of food service to the Cadet
        Wing.
        5.2.2. Official USAFA functions in direct connection with the Cadet Wing when
        authorized by Commandant of Cadets or 10 FSS/FSLF and such functions represent an
        extension of food service to the Cadet Wing. A 60-day notice is required and approval is
        dependent on current workload.
     5.3. Support for Picnics. Picnic support starts the first weekend of the new academic year
     and ends the Sunday of Dean’s Weekend. No picnic support is available during normal
     closures or leave periods, i.e., Thanksgiving, Christmas, and Spring Break. Mitchell Hall
     issues bulk picnic supplies on weekends (Friday, Saturday, and Sunday) depending on
     current workload and the financial posture of the subsistence fund. Mitchell Hall can support
     a limited number of picnics on a given day.
        5.3.1. All picnic support must be requested on an USAFA Form 19, Mitchell Hall Food
        Support Request, and submitted 14 days prior to the event. The USAFA Form 19 must
        first be signed by the Squadron AOC/AMT, Department Head or Athletic Department
        prior to submission.
        5.3.2. The following are authorized to receive picnic support for Cadet Events at least
        one per semester but no more than one per month depending on the strength of the Cadet
        Subsistence Fund:
USAFAI34-104 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                    7


          5.3.2.1. Group or Squadron AOC or AMT.
          5.3.2.2. Head varsity coach for her or his varsity team.
          5.3.2.3. Each department head or the department's recognized Cadet Club.
          5.3.2.4. Each sanctioned Cadet Club (extracurricular activities).
      5.3.3. Users may pick up picnic supplies on Friday 1600–1800, Saturday 0700–1800 and
      Sunday 0700–1800. Groups that fail to pick up their requested picnic items may be
      responsible for reimbursement of perishable items.
      5.3.4. The CIC and or OIC must ensure the proper handling of perishable and non-
      perishable items. Perishable items must be consumed within 4 hours after pick-up per
      USAFA Form 19. Signature on the form constitutes agreement with food consumption
      policy. For food safety reasons, food items may not be picked up one day for storage and
      use another day.
      5.3.5. The Cadet Dining Facility will absorb costs at the current Table of Rates for
      Cadets. Anyone other than Cadets that are consuming the meal must reimburse for the
      cost of the food. The CIC or OIC must provide accurate guest counts and submit
      payment for guests to 10 FSS/FSLFS.
   5.4. Support for Overnight Trips. Squadron-sponsored overnight trips and other weekend-
   long activities receive only issued canned goods or dry, prepackaged food items. A
   completed USAFA Form 19 at least 14 days before the requested date is required.
   5.5. Contract Food Service.
      5.5.1. Each Cadet Squadron and Cadet Club is authorized at least one per semester but
      no more than one per month contract food service depending on the strength of the Cadet
      Subsistence Fund. Requestors complete USAFA Form 19 at least 14 days before the
      requested date. Support is on a first-come, first-served basis.
      5.5.2. No contract food service support is available during normal closures or leave
      periods, i.e., Thanksgiving, Christmas, and Spring Break. Mitchell Hall contracts food
      service parties on weekends (Friday, Saturday, and Sunday) and holidays. This program
      is available from the first academic weekend through the Sunday of Dean’s Weekend.
      This support is for cadets only. Noncadets must pay for food separately.
      5.5.3. Contract food service can be ordered Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays at a normal
      limit of 3 per day. Some contract services will be required to be picked-up at the
      business location since there is no delivery service for these items. Notification is sent to
      the POC Wednesday prior to requested orders. Failure to pick up orders may result in
      request for reimbursement of the meal cost and/or forfeiture of future contract food
      service parties.
6. Outsourced Catering Support. Only HQ USAFA/CC, Commandant, Dean of Faculty and
USAFA/AD are authorized this type of support as an extension of food support to the cadet
wing. It must be coordinated through the Special Functions coordinator at Mitchell Hall.
   6.1. A minimum of 30 days advance notice for outsourced food support is required.
 8                                                       USAFAI34-104 17 NOVEMBER 2011


     6.2. Each event coordinator must provide the names of all cadets supported. Fund
     expenditure per cadet per event may not exceed $20. The total cost for the event cannot
     exceed this amount and includes any additional food/beverages provided via Mitchell or
     CUL reimbursement.
     6.3. A Minimum of 40 cadets per event is required for catered food and additional staff
     support determination. In order to support events, attendance must be at least 50 percent
     cadets. The Cadet dining facility and personnel exist for Cadets and is generally limited to
     their use. Support outside of Mitchell Hall, both food and personnel, are limited to current
     availability of personnel and financial strength. Limitations may be placed on programs to
     ensure mission accomplishment.
     6.4. Cost for meals to noncadets will be billed to the requesting organization. They will be
     charged the actual cost of the meal plus applicable surcharges.
7. Box Lunches.
     7.1. Box lunches are authorized for Cadets or Cadet Groups (1 per individual) whose
     approved official function precludes eating in Mitchell Hall (e.g., Airmanship Training, Field
     Trips, Athletic Games, CCQ duty etc.). Organizations must schedule early or late meals in
     lieu of box lunches whenever possible. Organizations may not request box lunches merely
     for convenience. Box lunch support to CCQs is not available when optional buffet meals are
     provided. Squadrons should allow CCQs to consume a meal during service hours. Users
     must consume box lunches within 4 hours of issue.
        7.1.1. Box lunch requests must be submitted NLT 14 days before the date needed. The
        request for box lunches in lieu of an early or late meal will be validated by 10 FSS/FSLF
        before box lunches will be authorized.
     7.2. Box Lunches for Cadets on Bed Rest. The physician who places a Cadet on bed rest
     determines whether the Cadet receives a box lunch or dines in Mitchell Hall.
     7.3. Reimbursement for Box Lunches. Mitchell Hall provides box lunches for Cadets on a
     non-reimbursable basis. Noncadets pay for box lunches and all applicable surcharges as
     specified in the current Table of Rates.
     7.4. Pre-Game Meals. The Athletic Department may request pre-game meals for all
     intercollegiate athletic teams, in writing, at least 14 days prior to the meal. When meals are
     prepared and the team is a no-show, Mitchell Hall will charge the athletic department for the
     meal costs. The Athletic Department will be charged for all noncadets/coaches included in
     pre-game, box lunch, and snack requests. Billing will include all food costs and applicable
     surcharges as specified in the current Table of Rates.
8. Managing Cadet Nutrition. Mitchell Hall provides a number of menus to support Cadet
health and nutrition. These menus include the following:
     8.1. Weight Gain. Weight gain Cadets are assigned by the 10th Force Support Squadron
     Cadet Food Service Dietitian (10 FSS/FSLFN) with concurrence of the AOC. All Cadets
     who desire to participate in this program must first see the Dietitian and receive written
     permission from their AOC. The following criteria will apply for cadets to be eligible to sit
     at the Weight Gain Tables, receive Cliff Bars, and/or receive Boost Plus. To participate in
     the program, cadets must meet one of the two criteria.
USAFAI34-104 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                    9


      8.1.1. Body weight of less than or equal to 85% of Ideal Body Weight for males, or less
      than or equal to 90% for females.
      8.1.2. Recent illness or recent significant weight loss – 1-2% in one week, 5% in one
      month, 7.5% in 3 months, or 10% in 6 months
   8.2. Vegetarian Meals. Vegetarian menus are provided for lunch and dinner meals Sunday
   through Saturday. Cadets requesting vegetarian meals must sign up at the beginning of the
   academic year with the Cadet Dietitian.
   8.3. Light Meals. Light meals are provided for Cadets who wish to control their weight or
   calorie intake. Light tables are provided to squadrons at lunch and light menu options are
   available on the buffets. Light table requirements are coordinated for each squadron between
   the squadron superintendent and 10 FSS/FSLF.
   8.4. Dental Soft. Requires electronic ―Cadet Injury/Illness Report.‖ Dental soft-boxed
   meals are available in the Mitchell Hall kitchen. Additional dental soft foods can also be
   requested through the Cadet Dietitian for pickup through the nutrition office.
9. Reimbursing Food Expenses for Cadet Unit Level Training (CUL Funds).
   9.1. The purpose of CUL funds is to allow USAFA leadership and AOC/AMTs the
   opportunity to provide social training and mentorship to cadets under their command. The
   training objective of events supported with CUL funds should mimic social training for
   functions cadets will attend as newly appointed officers on active duty.
   9.2. The CUL fund is a part of the Cadet Subsistence allocation authorized by SAF and
   DOD to purchase food for cadets. This is a fund restricted to food purchases. Guidelines are
   provided to all users of this fund. These rules must be strictly followed to ensure integrity of
   the funds. Allowances to each authorized user are from 1 Oct through 30 Sept of the
   following year. Amounts may change and are based upon any excess cash in bank for the
   subsistence fund.
   9.3. Authorized CUL Funds. Current authorized users are the Superintendent, Commandant,
   Dean, Group /Squadron AOCs, Basic Cadet Training Commanders and Global Engagement
   Commanders. These groups are designated to be able to receive a reimbursable allowance
   for the fiscal year in support of Cadet social training/activities. The total reimbursable
   amount is set each year and is dependent on excess subsistence funds.
      9.3.1. Advance approval for CUL funds. A CUL funds request must be submitted with
      reason for the event how the event will meet the training objectives, how many Cadets
      and noncadets attending, etc, to Cadet Dining Facility administration for a control
      number no later than 5 days in advance of the event/function. Obtaining a control
      number is not a guarantee of reimbursement; if the event is questionable, it is suggested
      to submit it at least 10 days in advance for staffing. Failure to request authorization in
      advance may result in ratification or disapproval of reimbursement.
          9.3.1.1. Signature on the authorization request form will be the user’s certification
          that the event being requested for reimbursement falls within the intent of social
          training and mentorship (paragraph 8.1.). At the beginning of the CUL funding cycle
          (1 Oct), all users of CUL Funds will be required to certify their understanding for use
 10                                                       USAFAI34-104 17 NOVEMBER 2011


          of these funds. Expenditures are reviewed, approved and may be audited by
          10FSS/FSR and HQ USAFA/FMN.
      9.3.2. Cadet Unit Level Training Funds Usage. CUL funds can reimburse for the cost of
      food and nonalcoholic beverages. CUL funds cannot pay for service, labor, paper
      products, alcohol, tips, supplies, taxes, or surcharges.
      9.3.3. Funds limitations. Each individual/organization is required to turn in all
      applicable receipts when requesting reimbursement for authorized events.
      Reimbursement will be made by Mitchell Hall upon receipt of original food event
      receipts not to exceed established limits (current limit set at $20) per cadet/per
      event/meal. Requests for reimbursement above this limit will be disapproved and the
      remainder will be the responsibility of the individual/organization.
      9.3.4. Direct Cadet Support. Reimbursement can be applied to functions in the home or
      designated squadron area or off base site, but can only be used to offset the cost of food
      provided in direct support of Cadets. Reimbursement is pro-rated based upon the number
      of Cadets and noncadets in attendance. Noncadets would include the commander, AOC,
      guest, or family members.
      9.3.5. Reimbursement of CUL Funds. All original receipts, request forms with
      authorization numbers and signed AFCW Form 1, Unit Accountability Record, must be
      submitted to the Cadet Dining Facility administration. Allow approximately 14 days for
      processing. Authorized reimbursement is limited to a single social training event. Funds
      are not intended to purchase food items for multiple days or meals.
      9.3.6. Cumulative Balance. The Cadet Dining Facility administration will provide
      cumulative fiscal year totals upon request and at the end of August. Each Group’s AOC
      has the authority to transfer funds from one squadron to another. Request for transfer of
      funds up to $300 must be submitted in writing (or e-mail) and forwarded to Cadet Dining
      Facility administration for necessary action.
10. Funds Accountability for Mitchell Hall. The funds accountability for Mitchell Hall is
governed in part by AFI 34-209, Nonappropriated Fund Financial Management and Accounting,
AFI 65-107, Nonappropriated Funds Financial Management Oversight Responsibilities, and
DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 12, Chapter 20.
   10.1. Accountability for food sales other than Cadet Subsistence: Food sales include
   employee meals, permanent party as specified in paragraph 2.3., and guests as specified in
   paragraph 2.2. All food sales will be accounted for on an AF Form 79, Headcount Record.
   10.2. Funds Accountability: Change funds will be issued by NAF AO to the Cadet Dining
   Facility manager or designated representative on an AF Form 2557, NAF Cash Receipt
   Voucher. Each cashier will sign for and turn in their AF Form 79 on the AF Form 1254,
   Register of Cash Collection Sheets, in the Cadet Dining Facility administration office. Total
   sales from the AF Form 79 will also be accounted for on the AF Form 1254.
   10.3. Sales Accountability: All AF Forms 79 will be verified by the Cadet Dining Facility
   administration staff at either the end of the shift or end of the day. All food costs will then be
   reconciled on the AF Form 1876, NAF Consolidated Cost Center Report, via SAIS program.
   All surcharges for operating expenses will be deposited to the applicable Treasury account.
USAFAI34-104 17 NOVEMBER 2011                                                                11


   Funds will be deposited when cash exceeds $200. Deposit slips along with the AF Form
   1876 and AF Form 79 will then be forwarded to the NAF AO.
   10.4. The Cadet Dining Facility administration will use AF Form 1254, Register of Cash
   Collection Sheets, to control AF Form 79. After the AF Form 1254 is completely filled in, it
   will be filed in the AFRIMS file plan and staged according to the appropriate table and rule.
11. Accounts Receivable.
   11.1. Maintaining of Accounts Receivable. IAW AFI 34-109, Air Force Community Center
   Programs, Mitchell Hall will report all sales received from employee meals, Staff Tower
   visitors, Special Functions, etc., on the daily AF Form 1876.
       11.1.1. Events that have not been paid for at the time of consumption are recorded on the
       AF Form 1876 and will be set up as a receivable. Accounting entries will be a credit to
       sales (301) and a debit to accounts receivable (111). Surcharges are due to the treasury
       when meal is consumed. Mitchell Hall will set up a receivable for 100% of unpaid meal
       costs (meal rate + surcharge). 100% of Accounts Receivable payments are deposited into
       the NAF subsistence account to clear the unpaid meal costs (meal rate + surcharge). The
       Cadet Dinning Facility administration office along with special Functions Coordinator
       will inform the party or group of the outstanding balance and request payment within 30
       days.
12. Supporting Disaster Relief and Exercises. When directed by HQ USAFA/CC,
10 FSS/FSLF will assist the 10 Force Support Squadron (10 FSS) with disaster relief activities
and USAFA Search and Recovery exercises involving noncadets. 10 FSS or other personnel
participating in these activities will pay for meals at the appropriate rate and surcharge if
applicable.




                                            LOUIS L. VAN De MARK, GS-14
                                            Director, 10th Force Support Squadron
 12                                                   USAFAI34-104 17 NOVEMBER 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-109, Air Force Community Activities Centers, 3 September 2010
AFI 34-209, Nonappropriated Fund Financial Management and Accounting, 10 January 2005
AFI 34-239, Food Service Management Program, 20 February 2004
AFI 65-107, Nonappropriated Funds Financial Management Oversight Responsibilities, 1
December 1999
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services Combat Support Programs, 1 November 1997
DoD 7000.14-R, Volume 12, Chapter 20, Military Academy Dining Hall Operations, August
2008
Prescribed Forms
USAFA Form 19, Mitchell Hall Food Support Request, 10 July 2009
Adopted Forms
AF Form 79, Cash Collection Record, 1 October 2004
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 1254, Register of Cash Collection Sheets, 1 August 1977
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, 1 September 1984
AF Form 1876, NAF Consolidated Cost Center Report, 1 October 1992
AF Form 2557, NAF Cash Receipt Voucher, 1 January 1989
AFCW Form 1, Unit Accountability Record, 8 January 2003

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AMT—Academy Military Trainer
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
CUL—Cadet Unit Level
DoD—Department of Defense
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
