BY ORDER OF THE                                                                    HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                                                     ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 23-303

                                                                                                                      26 JULY 2011

                                                                                                         Materiel Management

                                                                                     VEHICLE CONTROL PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 LRS/LGRV                                                                                 Certified by: 10 LRS/LGRV
                                                                                                        (Mr. Bobby Speights)
                                                                                                                    Pages: 27


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 23-1, Materiel Management,
and covers the Vehicle Control Officer (VCO) program for the United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA) that AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, does not address. This USAFA instruction is
for VCOs appointed from commissioned or non-commissioned officers and civilian employees
above the grade of GS-6 or WG-7. It includes both specific guidance and procedures needed by
VCO personnel to perform required duties with minimum reference to published directives.
VCOs must have this USAFA instruction available in their sections at all times, and depend on
the Vehicle Control Function (VCF) to provide and maintain current information. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.


       1.      VCO Program Introduction. ...................................................................................        2
       2.      VCO Liaison Duty. ................................................................................................   6
       3.      Controlling Unit Vehicles. .....................................................................................     6
       4.      Base Transportation Services. ................................................................................       7
       5.      Obtaining Unit Vehicles. .......................................................................................     8
 2                                                                                          USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


        6.     Vehicle-Use Goals. ................................................................................................     8
        7.     Vehicle Maintenance. ............................................................................................       9
        8.     Vehicle Abuse and Misuse. ....................................................................................         11
        9.     Accident Investigation and Reporting Procedures. ................................................                      12
        10.    Requirements to Travel outside Local Area. .........................................................                   13
        11.    Motor Vehicle Operator's Qualification Requirements. ........................................                          14
        12.    Unit Vehicles Cleaning. .........................................................................................      17
        13.    Vehicle Refueling. .................................................................................................   17
        14.    Vehicle Inspection Requirements and Procedures. ................................................                       18
        15.    Driver Training Program. .......................................................................................       21

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                        23

Attachment 2—UNIT COMMANDER CHECKLIST                                                                                                 25

Attachment 3—AUTHORIZATION ANALYSIS CHECKLIST                                                                                         27


1. VCO Program Introduction.
     1.1. VCO Overview. Vehicles permanently assigned to units require day-to-day
     management in addition to that provided by Vehicle Management personnel. As a result, the
     USAFA appoints VCOs who ensure organizations make the most effective use of assigned
     vehicles. Each base organization to which vehicles are permanently assigned appoints a
     VCO; the unit commander forwards a memorandum appointing the unit’s VCO to the
     Vehicle Operations Manager (Commander Checklist at Attachment 2). Unit commanders
     will appoint VCO replacements 60 days before an incumbent departs and have at least 1-year
     retainability.
     1.2. Vehicle Management. With the need to conserve scarce and costly fuel resources, all
     management echelons must emphasize controlling and conserving vehicle assets. We must
     maximize our efficiency and minimize fleet size without reducing reliability or quality of
     maintenance. To achieve these goals, the base transportation activity and the units share
     oversight of vehicles. The using agency assumes operational management and control while
     the transportation activity provides maintenance support and transportation services beyond
     the using agency's capability. The vehicle user is responsible for operation, conservation,
     and condition of vehicles used. The operator's supervisor, commander, and especially the
     VCO enforce this responsibility.
     1.3. Vehicle Control Officer Duties. VCOs must devote enough time to this task to carry
     out all assigned responsibilities effectively. VCOs:
        1.3.1. Act as a focal point for all unit government vehicle matters.
        1.3.2. Control unit vehicles and get transportation services required to meet the unit's
        mission.
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                      3


     1.3.3. Defend requirements, when necessary, for existing vehicles; justify requests for
     additional vehicle requirements, comply with the vehicle rotation program, and notify the
     fleet management office when the unit no longer needs assigned vehicles.
     1.3.4. Ensure operators perform required maintenance, report vehicle malfunctions to
     vehicle maintenance, and make unit vehicles available for base activity repair and
     servicing.
     1.3.5. Prevent misuse, abuse, and damage to unit assigned vehicles; investigates
     incidents of abuse, misuse, and accidents; and recommend corrective action to the
     commander.
     1.3.6. Ensure only qualified and properly licensed personnel operate vehicles or
     specialized mounted equipment, and notify fleet management, which issues the AF Form
     2293, US Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card, of any change in
     operator's status (for example, a member cannot drive due to physical condition,
     withdrawal of state license, etc.). Civilian operators should have on file an Optional
     Form (OF) 345, Physical Fitness Inquiry for Motor Vehicle Operators.
     1.3.7. Use qualified unit instructors that have been approved by the Vehicle Operations
     Officer (VOO) for the Driver’s Training Program to train and supervise 15 passenger
     vans, pintle-hooks, lift gates, and special purpose vehicle operators.
        1.3.7.1. Why do we have a driver’s training program? This training allows each
        organization to certify and train other personnel in their organization on designated
        vehicles.
        1.3.7.2. Vehicle Operator Training through Vehicle Operations (10 LRS/LGRDDO).
        1.3.7.3. Vehicle Operator Training. Government training and licensing is required
        on 15 passenger vans, trucks over 14,000 GVW, and for vehicles with a carrying
        capacity of more than 15 passengers. To become qualified as a Trainer/Certifier, the
        trainee will have a minimum of 1 hour of training on the 15-passenger van and 12
        hours minimum of training on Forklifts. Training dates and hours will be determined
        by customer needs and the availability of the trainers. Training on other vehicles or
        specialized equipment is also available upon request. A list of training instructor
        candidates, the type of vehicles they are trainers for, and their grade, should be
        submitted to 10 LRS/LGRVA.
            1.3.7.3.1. The requesting organization will:
                1.3.7.3.1.1. Screen prospective trainers to ensure they are capable of being
                trainers.
                1.3.7.3.1.2. Provide a list of prospective trainers and the type of vehicles they
                are requesting training on to the 10 LRS/LGRV Vehicle Management &
                Analysis Office (VM&A) 30 days prior to the desired training dates.
                1.3.7.3.1.3. Make trainees available during coordinated class dates.
            1.3.7.3.2. VM&A will:
                1.3.7.3.2.1. Take the list of prospective trainers to the 10 SFS/Reports and
                Analysis Section (S5R) for a background check.
4                                                             USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


               1.3.7.3.2.2. Provide the Vehicle Operations Manager (10 LRS/LGRDDO) a
               sanitized list of prospective trainers.
               1.3.7.3.2.3. Update the Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card (AF Form
               2293) when the candidate successfully completes the required training course.
           1.3.7.3.3. Vehicle Operations Manager, (10 LRS/LGRDDO) will:
               1.3.7.3.3.1. Provide trainers.
               1.3.7.3.3.2. Provide the type of vehicle that training be requested on.
               1.3.7.3.3.3. Coordinate dates and times for training with the requesting
               organization.
               1.3.7.3.3.4. Certify trainers for the requesting organization.
    1.3.8. Ensure operators have emergency kits, Voyager Express Fleet Service Card, etc.,
    before departing the local area.
    1.3.9. Arrange for security of vehicles when not in use; safeguard against pilferage of
    fuel, parts, and accessories.
    1.3.10. Ensure unit vehicles are kept clean and waxed. Check with maintenance on
    proper procedures for preserving the vehicle finish.
    1.3.11. Due to the potential for fraud, waste, and abuse, each unit processing or using
    Voyager Express Fleet Service Card establishes effective training and control programs
    to ensure assigned personnel know how to use and manage government resources.
    1.3.12. Ensure Voyager Express Fleet Service Card receipts for fuel purchases, etc., are
    forwarded to VM&A after return to home station.
    1.3.13. Receipt vehicles from VM&A. Note: Parent commands directly receipt vehicles
    to tenant units through their Registered Equipment Management (REM) section.
    1.3.14. Request supplies, tools, and equipment for unit vehicles, such as highway
    warning kits, first-aid kits (when required by local authorities), tire chains, polish, wax,
    chamois, sponges, jacks, lug wrenches, fire extinguishers, and spare tires (unless items
    are original equipment on vehicles). As the VCO, procure these items through unit
    supply channels. VCOs may meet infrequent requirements for such items by loans from
    10 LRS/LGRDDO.
    1.3.15. Ensure operators know that the maximum engine idle time is 5 minutes when the
    vehicle is in “standby or waiting” status. When temperatures drop below freezing, the
    idle time may be extended to a maximum of 10 minutes to ensure proper warm-up.
    (Operational commitments may exempt you from these maximums, for example, when
    operating fire trucks or when radio-equipped vehicles use internal battery power to
    operate communication equipment.) Note: If use of this equipment is required when the
    engine is not running, use the “accessory position” on the ignition switch to avoid
    damaging the vehicle's electrical system.
    1.3.16. Ensure unit members complete all operator's inspection guide and trouble report
    forms and that adequate stocks of appropriate forms are on hand.
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                   5


     1.3.17. Provide data and justification to support the unit's minimum essential vehicle
     levels.
     1.3.18. Conduct and document monthly operator safety briefings to discuss accident
     trends, prevention, and procedures to stimulate safety consciousness. Unit may use
     commander calls as a forum for these briefings.
     1.3.19. Conduct monthly inspections to ensure assigned vehicles are serviceable and
     clean and that operators are properly inspecting vehicles. Use the appropriate operator's
     inspection guide and trouble report when performing these inspections. Note: VCOs
     will inspect each assigned vehicle annually.
     1.3.20. Provide flight line training to assigned personnel when required.
     1.3.21. Maintain and adapt unit vehicle lesson plans after fleet management has
     approved them.
        1.3.21.1. Unit commanders will ensure vehicle training lesson plans are developed in
        accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 36-2236, Guidebook for Air Force Instructors,
        Chapter 17 and Attachment 9, and kept on file for vehicles assigned to their
        organization. Plan of Instructions (POIs) and lesson plans should be updated when
        significant changes or modifications are made to a vehicle type, or every 3 years to
        ensure currency. The unit explosives or weapons safety manager is required to
        coordinate on lesson plans for vehicles that handle or transport explosives. Local
        instructions will be approved by the unit commander or equivalent for all explosives
        operations, IAW AFMAN 91-201, Explosives Safety Standards. Coordinate
        instructions with the installation/wing safety office and all other involved
        organizations.
     1.3.22. Ensure operators transporting hazardous material are familiar with the primary
     and alternate routes on and off the installation. The use of these routes is a state
     requirement and operators must not deviate from them.
     1.3.23. Provide orientation to newly assigned personnel.
     1.3.24. Ensure vehicle rentals and leases are coordinated through the 10 LRS/LGRV
     (VM&A).
     1.3.25. Ensure vehicles are properly configured when towing trailers and nonregistered
     equipment (to include operating any electrical or braking accessories on the vehicle or
     equipment being towed).
     1.3.26. Attend the semiannual VCO meetings.
  1.4. Directives Pertaining to Vehicle Operations. Ensure the following directives are
  available for reference.
     1.4.1. AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations.
     1.4.2. AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management.
     1.4.3. AFMAN 24-306_IP, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Operator.
     1.4.4. Dash 1 Technical Orders applicable to vehicles or equipment assigned to your
     organization.
 6                                                                USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


        1.4.5. USAFAI 23-303, Vehicle Control Program.
     1.5. Coordinating With the Base Activity. Close coordination with the base transportation
     activity is essential for good vehicle management. Contact fleet management for assistance
     and guidance on transportation problems. They, in turn, solicit VCO assistance and
     cooperation in making the VCO program as effective as possible.
2. VCO Liaison Duty.
     2.1. Liaison Duties. The VCO acts as liaison between the unit and the base transportation
     activity. VCOs are the vehicle managers for the unit/organization and the single point of
     contact for unit/organization's vehicle matters. As a rule, to minimize confusion, originate or
     pass along information required by the unit’s transportation personnel.
        2.1.1. VM&A, with key transportation personnel, conducts meetings with you and other
        VCOs to discuss matters pertaining to 10 LRS/LGRV.
        2.1.2. The Vehicle Control Function (VCF), or a designated representative, schedules
        inspections of assigned vehicles without prior notice. Note: VCF will inspect 10 percent
        of the unit’s vehicles semiannually.
3. Controlling Unit Vehicles.
     3.1. Vehicle Oversight. The VCO signs for the unit’s vehicles from the VCF or from the
     base REM monitor and assigns these vehicles to their respective functions. VCOs should
     encourage the joint use of a vehicle to meet incidental user requirements. The VCO does not
     have to dispatch or personally supervise the use of each of the unit's vehicles, but must
     continuously keep the unit supervisors and operators aware of their responsibilities and of
     conditions affecting vehicle use.
     3.2. Vehicles Restrictions. Personnel must follow local base instructions and state traffic
     regulations. Take special care to comply with local instructions concerning vehicle
     operations on the flight line. Note especially the additional restrictions in paragraph 8 on
     abuse and misuse.
        3.2.1. Do not use Academy Boulevard as a primary route for government motor vehicle
        (GMV) travel when alternate routes are available. The primary route to Peterson AFB is
        via Woodmen Road and Powers Boulevard, and the alternate is via I-25 to the Hwy 24
        bypass. The primary route to Fort Carson is via I-25 to exit 135, with the alternate being
        via Nevada Avenue. The primary route to Colorado Springs Airport is via I-25 to South
        Academy exit, Academy to Drennan Road, Drennan Road to Airport Road; alternative
        route is same as Peterson AFB route.
        3.2.2. Do not use GMVs for trips to areas not complying with the intent of “Official
        Use.”
        3.2.3. Only foreign guests or dignitaries as deemed “essential support” by the 10th Air
        Base Wing Commander (10 ABW/CC) may use transportation to off-base shopping
        areas. Use discretion when planning these trips. Locations and distances that are
        unreasonable or could create an undesirable perception must be avoided.
        3.2.4. Base transportation may pick up or drop off officers with command and control
        authority at their quarters only on base, no off base pick ups. Colonels and below must
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                         7


      provide their own transportation to 10 LRS/LGRDO, building 8124, or be at their duty
      station for pick up.
4. Base Transportation Services.
   4.1. Managing the Unit’s Need for Vehicle Operations Support. A VCO’s responsibility
   is to acquire necessary motor vehicle transportation for the unit. One source is unit assigned
   vehicles. For other needs (peak loads and unusual requirements), obtain support through
   10 LRS/LGRDDO. The VCO and VCNCO consolidate and submit requests for vehicles to
   ensure sufficient support. The 10 LRS/LGRDDO supports requirements first by priority and
   then by destination. Submit all requests for transportation via email: 10 LGRDDO (Vehicle
   Operations Requests). Submit request to arrive at least 10 duty days prior to the need.
   10 LRS/LGRDDO offers the following services:
      4.1.1. Taxi Service. This service provides a quick response, point-to-point service, to all
      requesters requiring “Official” transportation. Normal operating hours for taxis are 0730
      to 1630, Monday through Friday. Try to schedule required service in advance when
      possible.       On-base taxi requirements have priority over off-base support. The
      dispatcher consolidates trips to off-base destinations to the maximum extent. Separating
      cadets requesting transportation must present copies of their out-processing checklist to
      the vehicle operator to verify validity of their transportation request.
      4.1.2. U Drive It (UDI) Service. A limited number of passenger and cargo vehicles are
      available to support organizations not having assigned vehicles, or to augment units
      having assigned vehicles but requiring additional support to meet infrequent, short-term
      peak requirements. The base activity does not dispatch UDI vehicles to any organization
      on a recurring long-term day-after-day dispatch basis. During normal duty hours, UDI
      users return vehicles to the vehicle operations compound, building 8124; the user checks
      the vehicle in with Dispatch personnel before leaving the area. After duty hours, the user
      parks the vehicle in the parking lot outside of the vehicle operations compound and
      deposits the keys in the key drop box located at the entrance to the compound.
      Commanders or VCOs ensure vehicles used by individuals permanently assigned to or
      hosted on TDY by USAFA units return vehicles to dispatch clean and serviced. Users of
      1-Ton capacity or larger vehicles are responsible for ensuring the vehicle is always left in
      gear or park and emergency brake set. The base activity provides an operator (unless
      qualified operators are available in the using unit) for large cargo vehicles such as tractors
      and trailers.
      4.1.3. Bus Service. Request transportation for the unit from Vehicle Operations vehicle
      request email box; email 10 LGRDDO (Vehicle Operations Requests), at least 10 duty
      days prior to your requirement.
      4.1.4. Recovery Service. Request recovery service through fleet management or using
      the GSA breakdown number located on the GSA Voyager Card. Contact the Vehicle
      Operations Dispatch (10 LRS/LGRDDO) for recovery service after normal duty hours.
      Limit requests after normal duty hours to priority vehicles, vehicles blocking traffic or
      creating a safety hazard, and government-owned vehicles disabled off base.
          4.1.4.1. Operator remains with the vehicle until maintenance or wrecker service
          arrives unless the base activity has made other arrangements. The recovery vehicle
 8                                                                USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


            operator transports the disabled vehicle to the vehicle maintenance compound or local
            vendor for repair in the case of a GSA vehicle.
            4.1.4.2. Vehicles will be retrieved from off-base areas as soon as possible. Between
            1800 to 0600, Monday through Friday; 1600 to 0700 on weekends; and all hours on
            holidays, contact Base Defense Operations Center, 10th Security Forces Squadron
            (10 SFS/S3OA) or the emergency wrecker service (refer to paragraph 4.1.4.). 10 SFS
            notifies 10 LRS/LGRDDO personnel. If the disabled vehicle must remain in an
            unsecured area (off base), it must be secured before departure.
            4.1.4.3. Fleet Management will not provide recovery service for privately owned
            vehicles (POV) except when directed by the 10th Air Base Wing Commander
            (10 ABW/CC).
5. Obtaining Unit Vehicles.
     5.1. Unit Vehicle Assignment. Justify the unit’s vehicles requirements using a short but
     thorough narrative. VM&A personnel will route the justification on an AF Form 601,
     Equipment Action Request. The 10th Mission Support Group Commander (10 MSG/CC)
     makes the final approval at the local level. Overall final approval rests with the A4L Vehicle
     Equipment Managing Systems Office (VEMSO). After VEMSO approves the authorization,
     an appropriate type vehicle will be sourced to meet the requirement when it becomes
     available. As a rule, the base activity will not assign vehicles pending approval of the
     authorization.
     5.2. Unit Vehicle Retention. After having a vehicle authorized and assigned, continued
     retention of it depends on the continuing need, mission criticality, and the achievement of Air
     Force utilization goals. If a vehicle is needed, but cannot meet the utilization goals,
     justification should clearly state why. VCOs, with the VCF, review utilization data on the
     assigned vehicles. VCOs and the VCF should consider vehicles that do not achieve
     utilization goals for possible rotation.
     5.3. New or Increased Mission Vehicle Justification. VCOs receive new or additional
     vehicles by justifying them (see paragraph 5.1.); VCF may assist with the request. Make
     every effort to explain the requirement, including passenger carrying requirements, type and
     weight of cargo transported, number of daily trips, lengths of trips, and specific parts of the
     mission supported. Anytime a vehicle is needed due to a new mission, attach a Program
     Action Document to the justification. The entire review process can take up to 90 days;
     therefore, timely planning for future needs ensures the authorization and vehicles are
     available when required. After gaining approval for a vehicle, its actual assignment to the
     unit depends on the availability of assets. Note: Attachment 3 contains an authorization
     analysis checklist that may help when considering additional vehicle requirements and when
     leasing could meet the need.
6. Vehicle-Use Goals.
     6.1. The Vehicle Use Program. The objectives of this program are to ensure the best use of
     all Air Force motor vehicles and that all Air Force general-purpose vehicles and materials
     handling equipment (MHE) accumulate the maximum mileage or hours by the time they
     reach their years of life expectancy (TO 36A-1-1301, Vehicle Management Index File).
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                     9


   Note: Monitor the unit to ensure it is not using or operating vehicles merely to accumulate
   mileage or hours in order to meet established goals.
   6.2. Vehicle Rotation. Rotate general-purpose vehicles and MHE unless the cost of moving
   equipment from one vehicle to another exceeds savings gained by the rotation.
      6.2.1. The VCO must establish local controls and procedures to monitor the rotation
      within the assigned organization to ensure that:
          6.2.1.1. Low utilized vehicles rotate with high-utilized vehicles.
          6.2.1.2. Older vehicles become eligible for replacement before newer models of the
          same type.
          6.2.1.3. No unauthorized modifications or deviations from standard marking and
          painting policy are accomplished that would prevent a vehicle’s rotation.
      6.2.2. The VFC provides a semiannual analysis to aid in using and rotating vehicles.
7. Vehicle Maintenance.
   7.1. VCO Responsibilities for Maintaining Vehicles. Both the using organization and
   10 LRS/LGRVM are responsible for vehicle maintenance. VCO responsibilities include
   ensuring the unit performs organizational maintenance and that vehicles are available for
   base-level repair and services.
   7.2. Organizational Maintenance. As the term indicates, organizational maintenance is the
   using organization's responsibility, usually completed by the vehicle operator. This level of
   maintenance includes inspections and reporting discrepancies to maintenance.
      7.2.1. Other organizational maintenance includes cleaning the vehicle and checking all
      fluid levels according to AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management, and applicable TOs and
      manuals. General-purpose vehicle operators service only fuel, engine oil, engine coolant,
      windshield washer reservoirs, and battery-fluid levels. Report all other suspected fluid
      level deficiencies to vehicle maintenance. Specialized equipment operators must perform
      daily lubrications, make minor adjustments, and install and maintain special attachments
      (snowplow blades, cables, etc.) as stated in the applicable operating and servicing
      technical order.
      7.2.2. An effective organizational maintenance program increases vehicle life, reduces
      maintenance costs, and ensures vehicles can meet mission requirements.
   7.3. Vehicle Maintenance Shop Services. All maintenance above organizational level is
   the responsibility of 10 LRS/LGRVM.
      7.3.1. Scheduled Maintenance. Some maintenance actions are scheduled in advance
      based on miles, hours of operation, or calendar time. Properly schedule vehicles so they
      do not operate past the mileage or operating-hour due date. Periodically, the VCO will
      receive scheduled maintenance requirements for their organization for a following 4-
      week period. Ensure the unit delivers vehicles to maintenance at the time agreed on by
      the VCF/Maintenance Control and Analysis (VM&A) also known as Customer Service
      Center for 10 LRS/LGRVM. Schedule servicing in advance with VM&A to reduce the
      impact of vehicle loss during periods of peak workloads.
10                                                              USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


     7.3.2. Unscheduled Maintenance. Report vehicle malfunctions to the VCF within one
     normal workday. Report malfunctions that affect safe operation at once. The user must
     make sure the vehicle is available to maintenance in clean condition, if possible, for
     required repairs. Failure to report malfunctions constitutes vehicle abuse. As the VCO,
     oversee the unit to ensure prompt malfunction reporting.
  7.4. Maintaining Unit’s Vehicles.
     7.4.1. The Air Force outlines vehicle serviceability standards in TO 36-1-191, Technical
     and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance. The 10 LRS/LGRVM
     determines if a vehicle requires repairs to meet serviceability standards. Simply stated,
     the Air Force recognizes that vehicles, as they become older, are subject to wear and
     deterioration, which means units cannot maintain them in a like-new condition. To be
     serviceable, a vehicle must be safe and dependable. A vehicle’s safety can never be
     compromised throughout its life--it must be able to perform its job safely and
     consistently.
     7.4.2. The Air Force judges the serviceability of a vehicle by age and mileage, expected
     use or job, remaining service life, value of services returned to user versus cost of rebuild,
     replacement or repairs, and safety of operation.
     7.4.3. Serviceability is always a matter of judgment. If a unit is not satisfied with the
     provided maintenance, contact the Vehicle Maintenance Supervisor (VMS).
  7.5. Modifying, Painting, or Placing Unit Signs on Vehicles.
     7.5.1. Modification. A modification is a change in configuration that alters the basic
     design or use of the vehicle. Process modifications according to AFI 23-302. The Air
     Force does consider adding special equipment to meet a specific operational need that
     does not alter the basic design or use of the vehicle as a modification. Examples of such
     added equipment include hydraulic tailgates, cargo covers, camper shells, etc. Installing
     and removing this equipment is the owning organization’s responsibility, as is the
     funding for this equipment. When this equipment is required, submit a memorandum
     seeking approval, with full justification, to the VMS.
     7.5.2. Painting and Marking. Paint and mark government vehicles according to TO 36-
     1-191. Units will not paint or mark government vehicles unless specifically approved by
     VCF and Vehicle Maintenance.
     7.5.3. Placing Unit Signs on Vehicles. These signs provide a uniform method for
     identifying vehicles as property of the US Air Force and serve to associate it with the
     assigned organization. If signs are used, they must be approved; refer to paragraph 7.5.2.
         7.5.3.1. Activity markings may be applied to exterior surfaces if deemed mission
         essential by local commanders. Make these markings easy to apply and to remove
         without damaging the vehicle's exterior surfaces.
  7.6. Maintenance Priorities. Each vehicle maintenance activity sets the priorities that most
  effectively support its mission. The 10 LRS/CL annually approves these priorities.
     7.6.1. Each using organization and functional site makes a list of mission-essential
     vehicles. The list shows the number of vehicles, by type, they can have in the shop at one
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                      11


      time without seriously affecting the user's mission. Consider vehicles with special
      mounted equipment that cannot be readily transferred to another vehicle in this list.
      7.6.2. The VFM and VCF review the unit’s proposed mission-essential vehicle levels for
      supportability. They must resolve questions or problems concerning the proposed levels
      with the using activity before finalizing the list. The VFM and VCF then present the
      mission-essential vehicle levels to the 10 LRS/CL for annual approval.
      7.6.3. All vehicles, regardless of type or use, have a “routine” priority (except designated
      emergency vehicles), unless one of the conditions in paragraph 7.6.4. applies.
      7.6.4. A RED priority is used when one or more of these conditions exist:
          7.6.4.1. The VMS/VCF tells Customer Service a unit is at or below the mission-
          essential vehicle level, further loss of vehicles degrades mission support, and the need
          cannot be filled by other base vehicle assets.
          7.6.4.2. The VMS/VCF tells Customer Service a special project requires them to
          place more of a certain type of vehicle in service.
          7.6.4.3. Severe weather or other circumstances create a need for certain types of
          vehicles.
      7.6.5. The 10 LRS/LGRV ensures it maintains mission-essential vehicle levels and that it
      meets extraordinary mission needs. Actions may include withdrawing vehicles from
      activities above their mission-essential level. 10 LRS/LGRV may have to consolidate the
      work force, work overtime, cannibalize parts, defer work, or make temporary repairs to
      return needed vehicles to service.
      7.6.6. Installed emergency warning lights, military radios, or other such accessories do
      not automatically cause a vehicle to be put in a higher priority.
      7.6.7. When a user receives a replacement vehicle (while prime vehicle is in the shop)
      and the unit meets the mission-essential level, the prime vehicle will receive a routine
      maintenance priority.
8. Vehicle Abuse and Misuse.
   8.1. Vehicle Control Officer Responsibilities and Examples of Abuse. VCOs are
   responsible to commanders for preventing, reporting, and investigating vehicle abuse within
   the unit. Below are examples of vehicle abuse. Note: Procedures for accomplishing
   Reports of Survey are contained in AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force
   Property.
      8.1.1. Tampering with governors.
      8.1.2. Running engines at excessive speeds.
      8.1.3. Operating vehicles with insufficient oil or coolants because of failure to check
      levels according to established requirements, or failure to monitor dash instrumentation.
      8.1.4. Failing to report malfunctions, defects in, or damage to the vehicle.
      8.1.5. Riding or slipping clutches, except when necessary to maintain control of a vehicle
      during backing operations.
 12                                                                USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


      8.1.6. Operating vehicles using improperly selected gears, such as lugging in high gear
      and shifting into reverse when traveling forward.
      8.1.7. Excessive RPM during engine braking.
      8.1.8. Improper distribution or failure to secure loads properly in cargo areas of vehicles.
      8.1.9. Unauthorized wiring, marking, or modifications to vehicles.
      8.1.10. Operating a vehicle with broken tire chain links or improperly inflated tires.
      8.1.11. Using a vehicle for other than its designed or intended purpose.
      8.1.12. Mechanical failures that are not the result of fair wear and tear or defective
      material or workmanship.
   8.2. Vehicle Misuse. Use vehicles for official purposes only. The VCF gives guidance in
   specific cases when the VCO questions the official nature of the vehicle’s use. If the VCF
   receives a report of vehicle misuse concerning one of the unit’s assigned vehicles, the VCF
   then records all the facts and requests an investigation through the unit commander.
9. Accident Investigation and Reporting Procedures.
   9.1. Accident Reporting: Report all accidents involving military vehicles on Standard
   Form (SF) 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report and USAFA Form 49, Supervisor’s Report of
   Mishap. When a military vehicle is in an accident, the operator must:
      9.1.1. Render any possible assistance to the injured.
      9.1.2. Warn other motorists of any existing highway hazard.
      9.1.3. Notify civil or military police.
      9.1.4. Complete and deliver SF 91 to unit VCO or unit commander.
      9.1.5. Comply with state and local laws that govern reporting vehicle accidents.
      9.1.6. If civilian authorities require official civil reports, route them through channels to
      the proper claims officer for review. This will ensure there is no prejudice to US
      Government rights by admitting liability or making statements that otherwise obligates
      the government.
      9.1.7. Bring the vehicle to 10 LRS/LGRVM for inspection if still operational; otherwise,
      request vehicle recovery service.
   9.2. Operator Statements. A vehicle operator must NOT express opinions (orally or in
   writing) to claimants or their agents as to liability, investigation findings, or the possibility of
   a claim approval. Operators DO NOT complete insurance company accident report forms.
   This procedure gives the US Government reasonable protection against claims filed
   according to the Federal Tort Claims Act.
   9.3. Reporting When the Operator Is Injured. In accidents involving military vehicles
   with operators injured to the point where they cannot complete the SF 91, the VCO or a
   designated representative of the unit must complete the SF 91 and USAFA Form 49.
   9.4. Accident Investigation. Transportation establishes the local accident notification
   procedures. The organization must investigate the accident and determine liability. In most
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                      13


   cases, commanders use the VCO to investigate accidents. Note: See AFMAN 23-220 for
   how to accomplish Reports of Survey. The 10 LRS/LGRVM requires a released-for-repair
   notification memorandum before the repaired vehicle will be released after repairs have been
   accomplished. The affected unit initiates this memorandum.
   9.5. Responsibilities. The vehicle operator has the primary responsibility to prevent vehicle
   abuse/accidents. Any damage should be reported immediately by the operator. The
   secondary responsibility rests with the unit VCO/VCNCO who should be inspecting unit
   vehicles periodically for unreported damage and inspects each vehicle being turned in for
   damage repairs. Unreported damage to an Air Force vehicle clearly indicates that the unit
   operator or VCO is not inspecting vehicles properly. Organizations fund costs associated
   with government owned, lease and rental, vehicle abuse and/or accident damage.
   Documentation and tracking of accident/abuse damage are the responsibilities of VCF.
   Note: In the event a lease/rental vehicle is damaged i.e., by abuse/accident or acts of nature,
   the using organization will be responsible for repairs.
   9.6. Procedures. Upon determination by transportation that a vehicle accident or abuse
   occurred, the following action shall be taken:
      9.6.1. Vehicle maintenance will initiate a work order, estimating the cost of repairs and
      photographs may be taken of vehicle damage to aid in further investigation. The work
      order, along with a memorandum identifying the accident or abuse, will be signed by the
      10 LRS/CL and routed through the commander of the organization assigned the vehicle
      in question. All Vehicle Management O&M funds expended for vehicle accident and
      abuse repair costs, including contract cost, will be reimbursed to Vehicle Management by
      the owning organization, or the organization responsible for the damage if not the owner.
      9.6.2. The unit commander or VCO/VCNCO will send vehicle maintenance a
      memorandum of release within five workdays. If vehicle maintenance has not received a
      memorandum of release within that time, they will repair the vehicle.
      9.6.3. If the using organization commander/chief agrees with the vehicle accident/abuse
      allegation, an AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement, will be prepared
      by vehicle maintenance using actual/estimated costs expended to repair the vehicle. A
      copy will be sent to Financial Management and Comptroller (HQ USAFA/FM).
      9.6.4. If the using organization commander feels the vehicle abuse/accident is not
      justified, and the 10 LRS/CL agrees with his or her rationale, the vehicle abuse/accident
      case will be closed. If the 10 LRS/CL disagrees, the case file will be forwarded to the
      10 ABW/CC for review and final disposition.
10. Requirements to Travel outside Local Area.
   10.1. Dispatch. When vehicles dispatch to points outside the immediate area of the
   installation, provide vehicle operators with route, refueling Voyager Fleet Service Card,
   emergency repair (AF Form 15, United States Air Force Invoice or SF 91), and mileage
   recording information and documents.
   10.2. Equipping Organizational Vehicles. VCOs arrange for and brief the driver on how
   to use emergency equipment and necessary forms. The 10 LRS/LGRDDO is responsible for
 14                                                              USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


   briefing the driver on recommended routing when requested. The following equipment is
   required:
      10.2.1. Spare tire and wheel.
      10.2.2. Jack.
      10.2.3. Lug wrench.
      10.2.4. Other emergency equipment such as fire extinguishers.
      10.2.5. Tire chains, snow tires, and window ice scrapers are recommended during winter
      months; windshield fluid antifreeze will be maintained throughout the year.
11. Motor Vehicle Operator's Qualification Requirements.
   11.1. General Information. Personnel who operate government-owned or leased general-
   purpose vehicles, 14,000 GVW or less with the exceptions of 15 passenger vans, may do so
   if they possess a valid state license and have completed Traffic Safety Courses I and II. For
   operating all other government-owned or leased vehicles, operators must possess an AF
   Form 2293, US Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card. In cases when AF
   Form 2293 has not been issued, the VCO must brief individuals on accident procedures,
   vehicle abuse and misuse policies, and operator care responsibilities.
   11.2. New Operators. Obtain information and scheduling for issuing an AF Form 2293
   from 10 LRS/LGRDDO/ORL.
   11.3. Civilian employees. Civilians employed as motor vehicle and incidental operators
   must meet the training requirements in Federal Personnel Manual (FPM) and the 36 series of
   the Air Force publications. They require a physical examination before they can operate a
   government vehicle. Use OF 345 and have the individual's immediate supervisor sign it as
   the Review and Certification Designated Official. The VCO retains the most recent OF 345
   on file. Thereafter, review a civilian's ability to operate government vehicles every 4 years.
   11.4. Licensing Contractor Personnel. Annotate the AF Form 2293 of a contractor
   employee who operates equipment requiring it, “Valid Only during Periods Covered by
   Employment.” Authenticate the form only for driving the government vehicles furnished to
   the contractor and mark it to show the area limitations; i.e., “on base only.” Each applicant
   must:
      11.4.1. Have a valid state driver’s license for the types of government-owned vehicles
      included on the AF Form 2293.
      11.4.2. Have the contractor certify that the operator is physically qualified to operate a
      motor vehicle. This certification must remain on file with the supervisor and
      10 LRS/LGRDDO, when applicable.
      11.4.3. Have the contractor certify that the operator is fully qualified to operate a special
      purpose vehicle. This certification must remain on file in 10 LRS/LGRDDO.
      11.4.4. Receive a handout issued by the unit VCO identifying his or her responsibilities
      while operating government-owned vehicles. The handout contains information
      pertaining to the Air Force base on which the person will operate vehicles and refers to
      the GSA vehicle operator's packet in each GSA vehicle, if applicable.
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                     15


     11.4.5. The AF Form 2293 issuing authority accomplishes and maintains an AF Form
     2296, Vehicle Operator Information (Part 3), for each contractor employee issued an AF
     Form 2293. Use only minimum entries for identification to assist in accounting,
     controlling, and canceling the AF Form 2293.
     11.4.6. The issuing authority voids the AF Form 2293 upon completion of the contract or
     upon individual termination of employment. The employee may keep the voided copy.
     11.4.7. The issuing authority may grant a temporary AF Form 2293, valid only for the
     duration of the visit, to a visiting contractor employee possessing a valid state driver's
     license.
  11.5. Commercial Licenses. Public Law 99-570, Commercial Driver's License Program,
  requires any civilian who operates a vehicle 26,001 GVW or more to obtain a commercial
  license according to state laws. The individual is responsible for the cost of the commercial
  license. Government vehicles may be used for required recertification purposes.
  11.6. Issue and Changes to Licenses. To renew or amend AF Form 2293, the member's
  commander, VCO, or designated representative sends AF Form 171, Request for Driver's
  Training and Addition to US Government Driver's License, to 10 LRS/LGRDDO requesting
  renewal or amendment of the person's AF Form 2293. 10 LRS/LGRDDO personnel screen
  previous records in determining whether to renew the license. They validate the present AF
  Form 2293 or issue a new license, provided the member meets the requirements. The
  expiration date of the AF Form 2293 will be the same as their state or commercial license.
  11.7. Suspension or Revocation of Government Vehicle Operators Driving
  Privileges. Suspend, revoke, or reinstate vehicle operator (civilian and military) driving
  privileges according to Air Force AFI31-218(I), Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision. The 10
  SFS/Reports and Analysis Section (S5R), on behalf of the installation commander,
  administers the program.
     11.7.1. Establish procedures to ensure the unit notifies the Operator Records and
     Licensing Section when Security Forces notifies the unit that the Installation Commander
     has suspended, revoked or reinstated an individual’s driving privileges.
     11.7.2. When individuals who possess an AF Form 2293 have had their driving
     privileges suspended or revoked, 10 LRS/LGRDDO will contact the unit commander or
     VCO to ensure they return their AF Form 2293 to 10 LRS/LGRDDO. This section
     maintains the license until reinstatement or until they deactivate the driving records as
     appropriate. This section also enters actions causing revocation or suspension in the
     records and licensing Computer Automated Fleet Information System (CAFIS) module.
     11.7.3. Individuals having their authority to drive civilian vehicles on base suspended
     also have their GMV driving privileges suspended for the same period. When individuals
     have their on-base driving privileges for civilian vehicles reinstated, they also have their
     full GMV driving privileges (including off base) restored (including reissue of AF Form
     2293) unless competent authority (i.e., Security Forces, individual's commander, etc.)
     withholds them.
16                                                            USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


     11.7.4. Unit commanders or equivalent may suspend or revoke a vehicle operator's GMV
     driving privileges for due cause. The commander notifies 10 LRS/LGRDDO, in writing,
     of this action and ensures the unit returns the operator's AF Form 2293.
     11.7.5. An authorized personnel action follows the revocation or suspension of the
     driving privileges of a civilian operator that effectively prevents them from continued
     performance of assigned duties. This action may be temporary (i.e., detail or
     suspension), may involve a permanent position change, or may result in dismissal. Any
     adverse actions proposed must cite specific and detailed reasons.
     11.7.6. As the unit commander determines, a person involved in substance abuse may
     have their government vehicle operation privileges suspended or reinstated. The
     commander must notify the Operator Records & Licensing Section of all suspension and
     reinstatements.
  11.8. Restoration of Driving Privileges.
     11.8.1. Reinstatement of a State Operator’s Permit. GMV driving privileges are
     automatically reinstated unless deemed inadvisable by competent command authority.
     11.8.2. Reexamining an Operator. An operator is given a reexamination on abilities to
     safely operate a vehicle when:
         11.8.2.1. Considered necessary by the unit commander due to an accident, evidence
         of abuse or moving violations, or a display of poor judgment or behavior.
         11.8.2.2. Affected by a physical impairment that results in a physical profile change
         as determined by competent medical authority. Note: Unit commanders are
         encouraged to send repeat offenders with poor judgment and behavior through Course
         5 offered by Ground Safety.
         11.8.2.3. Commanders may send these individuals to the Driver Improvement and
         Rehabilitation Course provided by the base Safety office.
  11.9. Qualification of Special Vehicles.
     11.9.1. The using activity evaluates the operator's performance on operation of special
     purpose, general-purpose vehicles in excess of 14,000 GVW, and materials handling
     equipment.
     11.9.2. Before certifying an operator's qualifications for a specific vehicle on AF Form
     2293, evaluate the operator's knowledge of vehicle operating and service instructions
     (technical orders or manufacturer's guide). Verify the individual's ability to operate and
     service the equipment by hands-on skill demonstration. The training course content must
     be according to approved unit lesson plans.
     11.9.3. If the activity requires special vehicle equipment operator training, you must
     designate qualified personnel within the organization as instructors to train and supervise
     student operators. Send the names and grades of instructors to the VCF. Send changes to
     this list to the CFC as they occur. The VCF thoroughly screens each instructor for
     background and experience on the type of vehicle or equipment and rejects those who do
     not qualify.
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                    17


   11.10. TDY License Requirements. Personnel in this category may operate general-
   purpose vehicles, 14,000 GVW and below, with a valid state license. In overseas areas, not
   including US possessions, they must have a current AF Form 2293. Local regulations in
   overseas areas may require additional certification.
   11.11. Requirements for Contingency and Remote Areas. Certain personnel assigned to
   contingency and remote areas must have an AF Form 2293 before they report for duty, since
   facilities for examining and training operators at these sites may be limited or nonexistent.
   The parent or losing command ensures it examines required personnel according to AFI 36-
   2102, Base-Level Relocation Procedures, and AFI 36-2110, Assignments, and issues them
   qualification records. In contingency areas, the VCF may modify information on the AF
   Form 2293 to eliminate information that could assist the enemy or cause a hardship if the
   cardholder were captured.
   11.12. Mobility Licensing Requirements. Personnel on mobility status to overseas
   locations should receive an AF Form 2293 to ensure compliance with host country
   agreements.
   11.13. Security of Unit Vehicles. The VCO must ensure unit vehicles and fuel are secure.
   To carry out this responsibility, follow these vehicle security rules:
      11.13.1. When not in use, secure the unit's vehicle. Do not leave vehicles overnight in
      airport parking lots or other unsecured public areas.
      11.13.2. As a rule, if a vehicle operator leaves the vehicle unattended, remove the
      ignition key (commercial vehicle) and lock the vehicle, except for vehicles designated as
      emergency vehicles (crash-fire trucks, security vehicles, ambulances, etc.) or when the
      vehicle is parked in a hazardous area (fuel dump, flight line, ammunition storage, loading
      or unloading area, etc.). Note: Flight line is defined as any area where the presence of
      the vehicle could interfere with normal aircraft movement. Military tactical vehicles
      should use the factory-installed steering wheel restraining cables or chain, or install a
      chain to provide security.
12. Unit Vehicles Cleaning.
   12.1. VCO Responsibilities. The VCO must ensure unit vehicles are clean and presentable
   (exterior, interior, engine compartment, and engine). Contact 10 LRS/LGRVM for guidance
   in cleaning engine and engine compartment.
   12.2. Wash Facility. The 10 LRS/LGRDDO maintains a vehicle washing and cleaning
   facility. As a rule, they provide wash brushes and an industrial vacuum cleaner for the
   vehicle operator's use. Using agencies will wash vehicles issued in support of summer CST
   and BCT programs prior to returning them to 10 LRS/LGRDDO. Automatic and manual
   washing facilities are available in the Civil Engineering Compound, building 8114 bus wash,
   and building 8127 automated car wash. Wash facilities are open Monday through Friday,
   from 0730 to 1630, but will have limited services when the temperature falls below 40
   degrees Fahrenheit.
   12.3. Vehicle Waxing. Wax unit vehicles when needed to meet corrosion control and
   appearance requirements or a minimum of twice a year. Note: GMV Only.
13. Vehicle Refueling.
 18                                                              USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


   13.1. Refueling Unit Vehicles. The base refueling station furnishes fuel for government
   vehicles. To get fuel, the vehicle operator must have a fuel key. When operators take a
   vehicle to the refueling station, they insert a fuel key in the computer box to obtain fuel. As a
   safety precaution to prevent static electric discharge, vehicle operators refueling vehicles
   should make sure the fuel dispensing nozzle remains in contact with the gas tank filler neck
   while dispensing fuel.
14. Vehicle Inspection Requirements and Procedures.
   14.1. Forms Used When Inspecting Vehicles. The Air Force provides operator inspection
   guide and trouble report forms for different equipment types to help vehicle and equipment
   operators complete required inspections and servicing. The AF Form 1800, Operator's
   Inspection Guide and Trouble Report, appears as an example. The other form number and
   equipment that apply is AF Form 1807, Operator's Inspection Guide and Trouble Report
   (Fuel Servicing Vehicles). These forms provide a monthly record of inspections
   accomplished, discrepancies reported, and maintenance corrective actions taken. The forms
   are alike except for the “items to be checked” column.
   14.2. Reports and Time. The VCO must make the operator's inspection guide and trouble
   report forms for the current month available for all vehicles or equipment, except during
   maintenance, at which time the base activity attaches the form to the work order. The VCO
   ensures that operators initiate new forms for each vehicle at the first daily inspection of the
   new month. Operators performing the first inspection of the month ensure they transcribe all
   applicable entries on the previous month's form to the new form. Operators also accomplish
   a monthly tire air pressure check at this time. Use an additional operator’s inspection guide
   and trouble report form for waived items; this form is the only authorized permanent record
   of previously identified items. Vehicles in extended repair, storage, or waiting disposition at
   the end of the month do not require a new form until they return to operational status. The
   VCO keeps the completed operator’s inspection guide and trouble report forms on file for
   one year.
   14.3. The Daily Inspection. Vehicle or equipment operators perform inspection and
   servicing, using the proper operator's inspection guide and trouble report form and
   procedures prescribed by this section. Inspect daily general-purpose vehicles and sign the
   operator’s inspection guide and trouble report form prior to daily operations with the vehicle.
   If operators do not use the vehicle daily, they must inspect it at least weekly. For special
   purpose vehicles, the operator must complete a daily inspection, including all items listed in
   the “items to be checked” section, once each day (24-hour period) (and before using the
   vehicle the first time) when the vehicle or equipment is in use. If shift operation prevails,
   operators on subsequent shifts must verify that someone previously completed the daily
   inspection and documented on the operator’s inspection guide and trouble report form. In
   addition, the new operator must make a brief walk-around visual inspection and check fluid
   level as necessary to detect any damage to the equipment, servicing required, or operating
   problems that may have developed after the daily inspection was completed. The only
   documentation required for the shift inspection is to enter any additional discrepancies found
   in the maintenance record section of the operator’s inspection guide and trouble report form.
   14.4. Inspection Discrepancy and Deferred Maintenance Procedures. As a rule,
   operators record discrepancies discovered during inspections requiring maintenance action
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                    19


  on the operator’s inspection guide and trouble report form and report them to the VCO for
  necessary action. The VCO, in turn, ensures 10 LRS/LGRVM receives the vehicle. The
  operator also completes the “reported to maintenance” section of the maintenance report.
  Supervisors, vehicle operators, or unit VCOs may delay reporting of minor repairs to
  accommodate immediate use of the vehicle during periods when maintenance is not open for
  business, when the vehicle is off base, or when a discrepancy does not constitute a safety
  hazard and will not lead to further deterioration of the vehicle. The VCO does not need to
  consult with maintenance before making a decision. If the VCO declares the vehicle
  operational, the discrepancies remain in an open status and are reported to maintenance at the
  earliest opportunity the next duty day. If the VCO declares the vehicle out of commission,
  secure the vehicle and turn it in to maintenance for action during the next duty day. Note:
  Vehicle operators should not make entries in the maintenance control report section of the
  operator’s inspection guide and trouble report form for end-of-day close out, except as
  provided in subparagraphs to this section.
     14.4.1. Do not defer or continue in service, vehicles or equipment with operator-reported
     discrepancies against systems or devices in paragraphs 14.4.1.2. through 14.4.1.9. since
     they may adversely affect safety of personnel or equipment operation. When a question
     arises about the seriousness of a discrepancy (potential safety hazard), the VMS, or a
     designated representative determines whether to defer the discrepancy and, if deferred,
     signs the maintenance control report entry on the operator’s inspection guide and trouble
     report form. Critical discrepancies include:
         14.4.1.1. Brakes.
         14.4.1.2. Tires (defective or tires having tread wear that exceeds limits in accordance
         with TO 00-25-246, Selection, Inspection, Service, and Control of Motor Vehicle
         Tires). Air pressure recommendations prescribed in applicable vehicle TOs take
         precedence over other recommended tire pressures unless they exceed max PSI rating
         identified on the sidewall.
         14.4.1.3. Steering mechanism.
         14.4.1.4. Operating levers controlling power transmission, hoisting, dumping, and
         tripping devices.
         14.4.1.5. Seat belts, when so equipped.
         14.4.1.6. Warning lights such as turn signals, brake lights, emergency, and rotating
         flashers.
         14.4.1.7. Headlights, reflectors, and night recognition or obstruction lights (unless
         vehicle or equipment does not operate during hours of darkness or restrictions as
         identified by decal).
         14.4.1.8. Windshield wipers and defrosters (when prevailing environmental
         conditions require these components be operable).
         14.4.1.9. Other similar safety and warning equipment and devices particular to
         special purpose units.
20                                                            USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


  14.5. Recording Inspections on the Operator Inspection Guide and Trouble Report
  Forms. The following are procedures to correctly complete the respective sections of
  inspection and trouble report forms:
     14.5.1. Heading Information Section. The VCO initiates and issues forms for each
     vehicle or equipment item on the first-use day of the month. Assigned operators who
     perform daily inspections on the first day close out the previous month's form. They
     must carry forward required entries according to instructions in the following paragraphs
     and return the old form to the VCO for file and disposition. Issue the new form after
     completing the heading information section as follows:
        14.5.1.1. Date (Mo/Yr). Enter the month and year for which the form is effective;
        for example, enter Jan 95 or March 95. Abbreviate months with more than five
        letters. Do not use numerals to indicate a month; i.e., “1/95.”
        14.5.1.2. Vehicle Type. Enter the vehicle or equipment type designator. If type
        designator does not apply, or is not commonly recognized, use the common name or
        nomenclature in place of, or in addition to, the type.
        14.5.1.3. Registration No. Enter the registration number assigned to the vehicle or
        equipment item. If not applicable, use serial number or local identifier used for work
        order purposes.
        14.5.1.4. Using Organization, Location, and Phone. Enter organization identifier,
        station location and area if desired, and telephone number of the assigned vehicle’s
        organization.
        14.5.1.5. VCO Name, Grade, Phone. This is the designated VCO for the using
        organization (identified in paragraph 14.5.1.4.).
     14.5.2. Inspection Guide and Operator Signature Section. The “items to be checked”
     appear by number, down the left side of the front page; they continue on the back page.
     The numbered blank lines are for local use, to add items. This is especially useful when
     adapting one of the forms to a peculiar equipment item. Inspect or service test all listed
     “items to be checked” during each inspection. The operator should not make an entry
     such as a check mark or initials on the item listing lines. Note: Line out only listed
     “items to be checked” that do not apply to the peculiar equipment. As a rule, the VCO
     and maintenance activity coordinate on items added or deleted (lined out).
        14.5.2.1. There is space for an operator's signature corresponding to the numbered
        day of the month on the back page. The operator's signature, opposite the appropriate
        day of the month, signifies satisfactory completion of the inspection or servicing for
        each “item to be checked.” The operator's signature further signifies the entry of item
        numbers for a discrepancy entered on the discrepancy and maintenance report (center
        page) or that the operator has determined an appropriate entry already appears in a
        deferred or waiver status. Leave blank or void operator signature lines opposite days
        of the month on which a daily inspection was not performed (nonuse days). The
        operator certifies completion of the daily inspection even though discrepancies
        discovered and reported to maintenance may result in the vehicle being placed in out-
        of-commission status. If the vehicle returns to service that day, the operator is only
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                      21


          obligated to make a brief visual check as outlined in paragraph 14.3. for the next shift
          operators.
      14.5.3. Vehicle or Equipment Discrepancy and Maintenance Report Section (Center
      Page). Use this section to record and indicate maintenance action or status resulting from
      operator-discovered discrepancies. Vehicle maintenance also uses this section to record
      discrepancies discovered and not corrected during periods of maintenance (repair,
      inspection, and service). Maintenance personnel and operators make a careful review of
      all discrepancies and their status to avoid duplicate reporting and processing of
      discrepancies. When initiating a new monthly form, transcribe all open discrepancies
      (leave date “maintenance control report” blank) to the new form and those “C/F” (Carried
      Forward) entered in the blank “date” space of the old form. Additional instructions for
      the completion of this section are as follows:
          14.5.3.1. Item No. Enter the item number of the inspection guide's “items to be
          checked” list against which the operator reports a discrepancy. Leave blank when the
          discrepancy does not relate to a numbered item.
          14.5.3.2. Discrepancy. Enter a brief description of the discrepancy. Usually, one
          line should provide adequate description of the problem; however, when detailed
          explanation is necessary, attach a supplemental sheet to the form and work order for
          maintenance.
          14.5.3.3. Date Found. Enter date the discrepancy was discovered. Use alphanumeric
          combination to indicate the date/month only. Abbreviate month to three letters, for
          example, 10 Jan.
          14.5.3.4. Date. Enter date the discrepancy was reported to maintenance (i.e., 10 Jan).
          14.5.3.5. Time. Enter clock time that the discrepancy was reported to maintenance,
          in four digit military time (i.e., 1430).
          14.5.3.6. Operator's Signature.     The individual completing the “reported to
          maintenance” part signs in this space. As a rule, this is the individual discovering and
          entering the discrepancy; however, vehicle maintenance or dispatch personnel may do
          this when the “report to maintenance” is delayed for any reason.
          14.5.3.7. Maintenance Control Report.       Customer service or a designated
          representative (i.e., a work center or shift supervisor, or mobile maintenance
          personnel) makes entries in this part.
15. Driver Training Program.
   15.1. Driver Training. Allows each organization to certify and train other personnel in
   their organization on designated vehicles. Initial vehicle operator training is conducted
   through Vehicle Operations (10 LRS/LGRDDO) on an as needed basis and annually
   thereafter for VCO refresher.
   15.2. Vehicle Operator Training. Government training and licensing is required on 15-
   passenger vans, trucks over 14,000 GVW, and for vehicles with a carrying capacity of more
   than 15 passengers. To become qualified as a Trainer/Certifier, the trainee will have a
   minimum of one hour of training on the 15-passenger van and a minimum of 12 hours of
   training on forklifts. Training dates and hours will be determined by customer needs and the
22                                                               USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


  availability of the trainers. Training on other vehicles or specialized equipment is also
  available upon request. A list of training instructor candidates, the type of vehicles they are
  trainers for, and their grade should be submitted to 10 LRS/LGRVA.
     15.2.1. The requesting organization will:
         15.2.1.1. Screen prospective trainers to ensure they are capable of being trainers.
         15.2.1.2. Provide a list of prospective trainers and the type of vehicles they are
         requesting training on to the 10 LRS/LGRV Vehicle Management & Analysis Office
         (VM&A) 30 days prior to the desired training dates.
         15.2.1.3. Make trainees available during coordinated class dates.
  15.3. VM&A will:
     15.3.1. Take the list of prospective trainers to Security Forces for a background check.
     15.3.2. Provide the Vehicle Operations Manager (10 LRS/LGRDO) a sanitized list of
     prospective trainers.
     15.3.3. Update the motor vehicle operator identification card (AF Form 2293) when the
     candidate successfully completes the required training course.
  15.4. Vehicle Operations Manager (10 LRS/LGRDD) will:
     15.4.1. Provide trainers.
     15.4.2. Provide the requested training vehicle type.
     15.4.3. Coordinate dates and times for training with the requesting organization.
     15.4.4. Certify trainers for the requesting organization.




                                           JAMES D. JEFFERS, GS-14, DAFC
                                           Director, Logistics Readiness Squadron
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                   23


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 23-302, Vehicle Management
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations
AFI31-218(I), Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision
AFI 36-2102, Base-Level Relocation Procedures
AFI 36-2110, Assignments
AFMAN 24-306_IP, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Operator
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record
AFPD 23-1, Materiel Management
Public Law 99-570, Commercial Driver's License Program
TO 00-25-246, Selection, Inspection, Service, and Control of Motor Vehicle Tires
TO 36A-1-1301, Vehicle Management Index File
TO 36-1-191, Technical and Managerial Reference for Motor Vehicle Maintenance
Prescribed Forms
No forms are prescribed by this instruction.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 15, United States Air Force Invoice
AF Form 20, Repair Cost and Reparable Value Statement
AF Form 171, Request for Driver's Training and Addition to US Government Driver's License
AF Form 601, Equipment Action Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1800, Operator's Inspection Guide and Trouble Report
AF Form 1807, Operator's Inspection Guide and Trouble Report (Fuel Servicing)
AF Form 2293, US Air Force Motor Vehicle Operator Identification Card
AF Form 2296, Vehicle Operator Information (Part 3)
OF 345, Physical Fitness Inquiry for Motor Vehicle Operators
SF 91, Motor Vehicle Accident Report
USAFA Form 49, Supervisor’s Report of Mishap
 24                                              USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


Abbreviations and Acronyms
CEMO—Major Command Equipment Management Office
CNG—Compressed Natural Gas
FPM—Federal Personnel Manual
GMV—Government Motor Vehicle
MAJCOM—Major Command
MHE—Materials Handling Equipment
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POV—Privately Owned Vehicles
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
REM—Registered Equipment Management
UDI—U Drive It
VCF—Vehicle Control Function
VCO—Vehicle Control Officer
VFM—Vehicle Fleet Manager
VMS—Vehicle Maintenance Supervisor
VM&A—Vehicle Management & Analysis
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                     25


                                          Attachment 2
                             UNIT COMMANDER CHECKLIST

A2.1. If the unit has vehicles assigned, has a vehicle control officer (VCO) been appointed? Is a
memorandum of appointment on file?
A2.2. Has the VCO receipted to the Vehicle Fleet Manager (VFM) for unit vehicles?
A2.3. Is the VCO familiar with AFMAN 24-306_IP, Manual for the Wheeled Vehicle Operator,
and is a copy on hand for assigned vehicle operators?
A2.4. Is prompt action taken on your VCOs findings and recommendations?
A2.5. Does the VCO ensure that operators inspect and perform necessary servicing and
lubrication each day and that inspection forms are available?
A2.6. Does the VCO control all (Wright Express) US Government Fleet Service Card issued to
the VCO by Fleet Management?
A2.7. Has an adequate training program for special purpose vehicle operators been established?
A2.8. Have special purpose vehicle trainers who are qualified to perform the job been assigned?
Does your VCO have their names?
A2.9. Does the VCO investigate cause, determine liability in vehicle damage cases not
involving reports of survey, and recommend corrective action?
A2.10. Does the VCO investigate vehicle misuse incidents and recommend corrective action?
A2.11. Does the VCO make sure that your unit delivers vehicles scheduled for inspection and
lubrication to the vehicle maintenance shop or make arrangements to reschedule any vehicle
your unit cannot release?
A2.12. Has the VCO established procedures to ensure prompt reporting of vehicle malfunctions
to 10 LRS/LGRVM?
A2.13. Has the VCO established procedures to ensure only qualified and properly licensed
operators operate unit vehicles?
A2.14. Do vehicle operators perform daily and weekly inspections before, during, and after
operations using the Air Force inspection guide that applies?
A2.15. Do vehicle operators perform operator maintenance, including checking and filling oil,
coolant, and battery water levels?
A2.16. Do vehicle operators report mechanical discrepancies promptly to 10 LRS/LGRVM to
permit timely scheduling of repairs?
A2.17. Are vehicle operators delivering vehicles to 10 LRS/LGRVM as directed by VCO for
scheduled maintenance?
A2.18. Do assigned vehicles present a clean appearance inside and out?
A2.19. Are training outlines for special purpose and material handling equipment on file?
A2.20. Are the directives listed in paragraph 1.4. available, and are they current?
 26                                                             USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011


A2.21. Are vehicles controlled and secured during periods of nonuse and safeguarded from
pilferage?
A2.22. Does the VCO frequently emphasize energy conservation and trip planning?
A2.23. Have your personnel accomplished operator safety briefings?
A2.24. Does the organization have a need to routinely operate on the flight line?
USAFAI23-303 26 JULY 2011                                                                        27


                                          Attachment 3
                        AUTHORIZATION ANALYSIS CHECKLIST

A3.1. Justification Requirements. Each of the following questions must be addressed and
answered in the affirmative before the request can be sent to the applicable MAJCOM for
disposition:
A3.2. Does the justification indicate the current VAL using activity or the proposed user?
A3.3. Does the justification cite the directive, project, or publication that generated the request,
if appropriate?
A3.4. Does the justification fully explain the proposed use of the vehicle?
A3.5. Does the justification identify expected utilization information (miles, hours, passengers,
equipment, supplies, materials, number of trips, etc.)?
A3.6. Does the justification list the number of vehicles currently authorized and assigned to the
requesting unit and justify why co-utilization will not meet mission requirements?
A3.7. Does the request justify why transportation support from Vehicle Operations (taxi or UDI)
cannot satisfy the vehicle requirement (OLVIMS data must substantiate lack of support)?
A3.8. Does the justification include a mission impact statement on the organization, base, or
wing if the request is denied?
A3.9. Does the justification cite any actions taken to realign other authorizations to
accommodate the requirement? Note: The MSG Commander or equivalent signs/approves the
justification package.
