BY THE ORDER OF                                                          USAFA INSTRUCTION 36-802
THE SUPERINTENDENT                                                                         26 APRIL 2006
                                                           Incorporating Through Change 2, 21 May 2008
                                                                        Certified Current on 19 May 2014
                                                                                                Personnel

                                                                      ADMINISTERING AND PAYING
                                                                              CIVILIAN FACULTY

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 10 MSS/DPC                                           Certified by: 10 MSS/CD (Ms. Karen Warner)
Supersedes USAFAI36-802, 19 October 1995                                                   Pages: 10

This instruction implements AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements, and references AFI
36-804, Civilian Faculty Pay Plan for Air University and the USAF Academy. It establishes the require-
ments for the appointment, reappointment, academic rank, salary step adjustment, and merit awards for
professional civilian faculty members at the Air Force Academy. Refer recommended changes and ques-
tions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recom-
mendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are
disposed of in accordance with the AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This interim change updates reappointing civilian faculty (paragraphs 3.5., 3.5.1., and 3.5.2.). A bar ( | )
indicates revisions from the previous edition.


1. Definitions:
   1.1. Mission Element. The term "Mission Element" refers to four organizations at USAFA.
       1.1.1. The Dean of the Faculty organization provides all academic instruction except for Physical
       Education, Military Art and Science, Aviation, and the USAFA Preparatory School. Mission Ele-
       ment Head is the Dean of the Faculty (HQ USAFA/HQ USAFA/DF).
       1.1.2. The 34th Training Wing organization includes within its purview the academic instruction
       in Military Art and Science and in Aviation. The Commander, 34th Education Group (34 EDG/
       CC) administers these courses. Mission Element Head is the Commandant of Cadets (Com-
       mander, 34th Training Wing) (34 TRW/CC)).
2                                                                        USAFAI36-802 26 APRIL 2006


       1.1.3. The Director of Athletics organization includes within its purview academic instruction in
       Physical Education classes. Mission Element Head is the Director of Athletics (HQ USAFA/AH).
       1.1.4. The Preparatory School organization provides academic instruction at the USAFA Prepara-
       tory School. Mission Element Head is its Commander (HQ USAFA/PL).
    1.2. Department Head. The heads of the 19 academic departments within HQ USAFA/DF; the
    Commander, (34 EDG) in 34 TRW; the Directors of Athletic Programs (HQ USAFA/AHP) in
    HQ USAFA/AH; and the Commander, (HQ USAFA/PL).
    1.3. Agency Head. The heads of those organizations without a primary teaching mission but which
    have administrative faculty assigned. In matters covered by this instruction, agency heads serve the
    same role as department heads.

2. Delegating Responsibility for the Civilian Faculty Program. The Superintendent (HQ USAFA/
CC) retains final authority in all actions regarding the civilian faculty. The Civilian Human Resource
Management System (CHRMS) applies. HQ USAFA/CC delegates selection and appointment authority
to those listed in paragraph (3.1.).
    2.1. Converted Positions. HQ USAFA/CC determines if and when positions are converted to civil-
    ian faculty positions under this program.
    2.2. Options for Incumbents. Incumbents who held positions selected for conversion on or before
    1 July 1993 may elect to retain current civil service status or convert to coverage under the provisions
    of the Civilian Faculty Pay Plan within 18 months of designation of their positions for conversion.
    Those employees who elect to change will be converted to coverage under the Civilian Faculty Pay
    Plan at the beginning of the first pay period after election; those electing to retain current status are
    subject to reduction-in-force procedures. Employees electing conversion who have personal compet-
    itive status retain reinstatement eligibility as defined in the Federal Personnel Manual (FPM). Con-
    version must result in no loss in compensation, academic status, life or health insurance, or retirement
    benefits.
    2.3. Immediate Conversion for Vacancies. Designated positions that are vacant convert immedi-
    ately.

3. Appointing Civilian Faculty. Internal procedures for recruiting, selecting, appointing, and reappoint-
ing as follow. Detailed procedures regarding normal duty day, faculty calendar, etc., appear in the USAFA
Faculty Handbook. It is authoritative in any matter not included in this or other USAFA instructions.
    3.1. Administering Appointments. The HQ USAFA/CC delegates selection authority to the Mis-
    sion Element Heads (HQ USAFA/DF, 34 TRW/CC, HQ USAFA/AH, and HQ USAFA/PL) and
    appointment authority to the Director of Civilian Personnel, USAFA.
       3.1.1. Each Mission Element Head appoints an advisory council to assist on faculty personnel
       matters such as:
           3.1.1.1. Interpreting criteria for academic rank appointment and promotion.
           3.1.1.2. Reviewing all recommendations to the Mission Element Head for initial appoint-
           ments, reappointments, and promotion in academic rank.
USAFAI36-802 26 APRIL 2006                                                                              3


         3.1.1.3. Reviewing all recommendations to the Mission Element Head for merit awards (para-
         graph 5.3.).
  3.2. Recruiting Civilian Faculty. The Mission Element Heads may recruit new faculty at any time,
  subject to funding availability, applicable DoD and Office of Personnel Management (OPM) direc-
  tives, and CHRMS policies. The recruiting Department Head and Workforce Sustainment (10 MSS/
  DPCS) advertise through channels appropriate to the vacancy to obtain a list of applicants. The 10
  MSS/DPCS assists the recruiting Department Head to validate the basic qualifications of each appli-
  cant.
  3.3. Selecting Civilian Faculty. The Department Head convenes a rating panel to evaluate applicants
  following instructions from the Mission Element Head and the Department Head's rating guide. The
  Department Head coordinates his or her selection with the applicable advisory council to determine
  academic rank before forwarding the selection to the Mission Element Head for approval.
  3.4. Appointing Civilian Faculty. After selection, 10 MSS/DPCS prepares memorandum of
  appointment, a contract, and arranges for the appointee to be in place at the agreed upon date. Initial
  appointments may be made at any time commensurate with USAFA requirements, but the term of an
  initial appointment effective at other than 1 July will normally not exceed 3 years. The following are
  general guidelines for appointment to academic rank in HQ USAFA/DF and 34 TRW.
     3.4.1. Instructor. A relevant master's degree, interest in and potential for teaching, research, ser-
     vice, and other scholarly and professional activities.
     3.4.2. Assistant Professor. A relevant doctorate or appropriate terminal degree with definite
     promise of growth and development in teaching, research, service, and other scholarly and profes-
     sional activities; or a master's degree plus demonstration of outstanding contributions to the pro-
     fession and USAFA that may justify this rank in the absence of an earned doctoral degree.
     3.4.3. Associate Professor. A relevant doctorate or appropriate terminal degree with definite
     experience in an appropriate discipline; evidence of excellence in teaching, research, and service;
     and, at least 5 years of significant professional experience including normally no less than 3 years
     of full-time college-level teaching at the rank of Assistant Professor or above. Time in rank alone
     does not suffice for promotion to Associate Professor.
     3.4.4. Professor. A relevant doctorate or appropriate terminal degree with experience in an appro-
     priate discipline; a consistent record of excellence in teaching; an established, outstanding repu-
     tation in an academic discipline demonstrated through broad recognition of research and service
     accomplishments; and at least 10 years of applicable professional experience, including no less
     than 6 years of full-time college-level teaching with at least 3 years at the rank of Associate Pro-
     fessor or higher. Time in rank alone does not suffice for promotion to Professor. Promotion to
     Professor requires significant contributions as a demonstrated leader in carrying out the USAFA
     mission or the charter of the institution the candidate currently serves.
  3.5. Reappointing Civilian Faculty.
     3.5.1. Reappointing CW, AD, and PL Civilian Faculty. Individuals who desire reappointment
     will apply between the 14th and 12th months before the current appointment expires to the Mis-
     sion Element Head through his or her Department Head. Department Heads will endorse the
     application with a recommendation for reappointment or non-reappointment. No later than 60
     days from the date of the application, the Mission Element Head will normally notify the applicant
4                                                                          USAFAI36-802 26 APRIL 2006


        of the final decision through the Department Head. Reappointments normally will become effec-
        tive 1 July; separations, except for cause, normally will be effective 30 June.
        3.5.2. Reappointing DF Civilian Faculty. For faculty members on an initial three-year appoint-
        ment, the Dean of the Faculty, after conferring with the respective Department or Staff Agency
        Head, will determine whether a faculty member is to be reappointed when one year remains on the
        initial three-year appointment. Factors considered in deciding to reappoint will include superior
        faculty member performance as detailed in current and past performance appraisals and careful
        consideration of the factors set forth in paragraph 3.6. below. If a reappointment is warranted, the
        new appointment length will normally be for a period of four years, although lesser periods may
        be approved depending on the specific circumstances. The respective Department Head or Staff
        Agency head will inform the Dean in writing on page 4 of the Performance Appraisal of the fac-
        ulty member's desire to be reappointed, after consultation with the faculty member. Formal reap-
        pointment applications by faculty members are no longer required. For faculty members who
        have already been reappointed at least once, at the end of each annual appraisal cycle, the Dean of
        the Faculty, after conferring with the respective Department or Staff Agency Head, will determine
        whether a faculty member will be reappointed. This decision will be made when three years
        remain on a faculty member's current four-year appointment. The decision to reappoint will be
        based on superior performance as demonstrated in the faculty member's current performance
        appraisal and careful consideration of the factors set forth in paragraph 3.6. below. Reappoint-
        ments will normally be for a one year period, meaning that after reappointment, the faculty mem-
        ber will have four years remaining on their appointment. The respective Department Head or Staff
        Agency head will inform the Dean in writing on page 4 of the Performance Appraisal of the fac-
        ulty member's desire to be reappointed, after consultation with the faculty member. Formal reap-
        pointment applications by faculty members are no longer required. In both kinds of
        reappointments, faculty members eligible for reappointment will normally be notified by the Dean
        or the Dean's designee no later than 30 days following the closeout of the faculty member's Perfor-
        mance Appraisal or as soon thereafter as practicable. Reappointments normally will be effective
        1 July; separations, except for cause, normally will be effective 30 June.
    3.6. Meeting Promotion and Reappointment Criteria. Promotions normally become effective 1
    July after approval by the Mission Element Head. Essential qualities expected of every faculty mem-
    ber include the personal attributes of integrity, industry, cooperation, initiative, and breadth of intellec-
    tual interests. To merit promotion or reappointment, the candidate must demonstrate superior
    achievement appropriate to the level in each of the following areas:
        3.6.1. Demonstrated excellence in teaching is an absolute and fundamental requirement for
        appointment, reappointment, and promotion. Teaching performance may be demonstrated by
        classroom presentations; course and laboratory development; course direction; leadership of inde-
        pendent student projects; and mentorship of junior faculty.
        3.6.2. Faculty members normally conduct research, engage in consultation (consistent with public
        law and DoD and Air Force directives), write and publish educational and professional articles
        and textbooks, and participate in conferences and other activities of learned societies. These activ-
        ities strengthen and improve the faculty's capacity to carry out the Academy's mission and simul-
        taneously enrich classroom teaching.
        3.6.3. Each faculty member provides service to the Air Force, the Air Force Academy, and the
        professional community. Such service may take the form of involvement in cadet activities and
USAFAI36-802 26 APRIL 2006                                                                               5


     programs, administration, faculty governance, curriculum and program management, or tempo-
     rary assignment to other Air Force organizations.
  3.7. Appointing and Promoting Physical Education Instructors. The requirements for appoint-
  ment or promotion follow:
     3.7.1. Instructor. Faculty appointed in this category hold the title Instructor of Physical Educa-
     tion. Each must have at least a bachelor's degree and demonstrated experience and proficiency in
     the field of specialization.
     3.7.2. Assistant Professor. Faculty appointed in this category hold the title Advanced Physical
     Education Instructor. A bachelor's degree and at least 3 years of college teaching in the field or
     coaching experience is required. The individual also must have a successful record of coaching or
     teaching in the field of specialization.
     3.7.3. Associate Professor. Faculty appointed in this category carry the title Senior Physical Edu-
     cation Instructor. Individuals in this category must have at least a master's degree and 8 years of
     successful college teaching or coaching. and have achieved distinction as a coach or teacher in the
     field of specialization with superior leadership and personal attributes. Prospective appointees
     must be qualified as a head coach or administrator of some phase of the physical education curric-
     ulum and have made continuous contribution to the mission of the Air Force Academy (or the
     applicant's current school).
     3.7.4. Professor. Faculty appointed in this category will have the title Associate Director of Phys-
     ical Education. They must have a doctorate, or a master's degree and 15 years of successful col-
     lege teaching or coaching. The individual must have achieved high distinction in the field of of
     specialization with superior leadership and personal attributes. He or she must also have signifi-
     cant experience as a head coach or administrator of some phase of the physical education curricu-
     lum and have made continuous significant contribution to the mission of the Air Force Academy
     or the applicant's current school.
     3.7.5. Instructor-Coach (Major Sport). Faculty appointed in this category hold the title Major
     Sport Instructor. They must meet the academic and experience requirements for instructor (para-
     graph 3.7.1. above) and may be hired in any instructional pay band and step based on market con-
     ditions and experience. Major Sport Instructors do not have academic title, nor are they eligible
     for academic promotion. Major sports at the USAFA are football, men’s and women’s basketball,
     volleyball and ice hockey.
  3.8. Appointing and Promoting USAFA Preparatory School Instructors. The requirements for
  appointment or promotion follow:
     3.8.1. Instructor. Faculty appointed in this category will have the title of Instructor of (applicable
     discipline). A candidate must have either a bachelor's degree and 3 years teaching experience or a
     relevant master's degree and interest in and potential for teaching, research, and service.
     3.8.2. Assistant Professor. Faculty appointed in this category will have the title of Lead Instructor
     of (applicable discipline). Candidates must have either a relevant master's degree, at least 3 years
     teaching experience, and demonstrated outstanding contributions to the profession and the USAF
     Academy; or, a relevant doctorate with definite promise for growth in teaching, research, and ser-
     vice.
6                                                                        USAFAI36-802 26 APRIL 2006


       3.8.3. Associate Professor. Faculty appointed in this category will have the title of Command
       Instructor of (applicable discipline). Candidates must have a relevant doctorate degree, at least 8
       years teaching experience, and have demonstrated outstanding contributions to the profession and
       the USAF Academy.
    3.9. Other Titles for Physical Education and Preparatory School Faculty. Faculty who meet the
    academic requirements and standards cited in paragraph 3.4. may be entitled to carry the title of Assis-
    tant Professor, Associate Professor, or Professor. They must submit their application to HQ USAFA/
    DF's Advisory Council (Faculty Personnel Council) for review; after concurrence, HQ USAFA/AH or
    HQ USAFA/PL, as appropriate, may award the title to the applicant.
    3.10. Appointing Administrative Faculty. Individuals appointed to administrative faculty positions
    must meet the degree requirements for Instructor, Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, or Profes-
    sor.
    3.11. Appointing Civilian Faculty to Emeritus Rank. Retiring civilians in the academic rank of
    Professor may be given the honorary title "Professor Emeritus," without affecting either pay or retire-
    ment annuity. USAFA is authorized to design, print, and confer appropriate certificates for such pur-
    poses. The "Emeritus" title may be conferred under the following conditions:
       3.11.1. The faculty member must have rendered long and distinguished service to USAFA.
       3.11.2. The organization of affiliation recommends award of such status to the Mission Element
       Head.

4. Administering Civilian Faculty Pay The basic salary is based on a 12-month work year and is con-
sidered full and complete pay for the professional duties and responsibilities civilian faculty render. No
premium pay, such as overtime, holiday pay, or Sunday pay is authorized. Supervisors must assure that,
overall, the workload generally aligns with work weeks which average 40 hours in length.
    4.1. Substituting Holidays . Civilian faculty who must work on a federal holiday receive no pre-
    mium pay. However, another day must be substituted for the holiday, normally a day designated by
    the HQ USAFA/CC for the entire faculty.
    4.2. Reporting Time and Attendance . Time and attendance forms will reflect duty Monday-Fri-
    day, 0730-1630, with a 1 hour lunch unless the employee is on leave. It is understood by all parties
    (faculty members, time keepers, certifying officials, payroll officers, and inspectors) that this form of
    reporting accommodates existing payroll mechanisms rather than actual work and cannot be consid-
    ered a falsified record. Employees must work an average of 40 hours per week. Report absence for
    professional development on the forms as sabbatical leave, unless other categories of leave are used.
    4.3. Pay for Preparatory School. Pay limits for Preparatory School civilian faculty are these: Step
    26 for Instructor; Step 34 for Lead Instructor; Step 45 for Command Instructor; Step 55 for Adminis-
    trative Faculty.

5. Administering Appraisals And Core Documents.
    5.1. Core Documents. Departments must develop core documents, Air Force Faculty Position
    Description, stating assigned duties and projected accomplishments for each faculty member, individ-
    ualized as needed. Supervisors conduct periodic classroom observations and provide performance
    feedback in addition to the annual evaluation.
USAFAI36-802 26 APRIL 2006                                                                            7


  5.2. Appraisals. All faculty members are appraised annually against the established performance
  standards. The first appraisal cycle must cover more than 90 calendar days, but not more than 15
  months. The normal appraisal cycle runs from 1 July through 30 June.
     5.2.1. At the end of the rating period, the supervisor completes the appraisal, USAFA Form 112,
     United States Air Force Academy Faculty Performance Appraisal, and sends it to the reviewer
     before discussing it with the faculty member. After approval by the reviewer, both the supervisor
     and the faculty member sign the appraisal. Signature by the faculty member does not imply agree-
     ment with the performance elements, performance standards, or the rating, but merely that the
     appraisal has been discussed and understood.
     5.2.2. Supervisors must assist faculty members to perform at or above the "Successful" level by
     giving periodic feedback or progress reports when necessary.
     5.2.3. If the employee's performance is unacceptable at any time during the performance appraisal
     cycle, the supervisor must inform the employee, in writing, of the element for which performance
     is unacceptable, and what the employee must do to bring it up to a successful level. The supervi-
     sor then initiates an opportunity period to give the employee a reasonable time to demonstrate
     acceptable performance.
     5.2.4. Failure to improve performance to the "Successful" level during the opportunity period
     requires the supervisor to initiate appropriate remedial action. Remedial actions may include, but
     are not limited to, demotion in academic rank, salary, or step, or removal.
     5.2.5. If conditions arise that cause a change in a performance appraisal, a special review will be
     held. Either the supervisor or the faculty member may initiate such review. If such a review is
     held, both the faculty member and the supervisor must sign. A faculty member's signature does
     not signify agreement with any change made in the performance elements and standards, but
     rather that the supervisor provided an appraisal of performance under the special review.
  5.3. Using Performance Appraisals for Performance Awards. The Mission Element Heads deter-
  mine annually, within budget limitations, the amount of money to use for merit step increases and
  merit performance bonuses. Civilian faculty members may receive awards governed by other appli-
  cable directives, if eligible.
     5.3.1. Merit Awards. Using faculty members' performance appraisals as a basis, Department
     Heads may recommend merit step increases and merit performance bonuses to the Mission Ele-
     ment Head.
     5.3.2. Merit Step Increases. Civilian faculty members receive merit step increases only if their
     current performance is rated as "Successful" and the length and type of appointment otherwise
     establishes eligibility for a performance appraisal under this instruction. Department Heads may
     recommend for each faculty member no adjustment (other than comparability adjustments), or
     one, or two steps increase. The Mission Element Head allocates the merit step increases after
     reviewing the recommendations of the advisory council.
     5.3.3. Merit Performance Bonuses. In addition to merit increases and awards, faculty members
     may be granted performance bonuses for exceptional accomplishments. The Mission Element
     Head approves all faculty merit performance bonus awards based on recommendations of the
     Department Heads.
8                                                                     USAFAI36-802 26 APRIL 2006


6. Terminating Appointments. Supervisors must make every effort to ensure an individual is given at
least 12 months' notice of termination or nonreappointment.
    6.1. Reduction-in-Force (RIF) . Loss of personnel funding, authorizations, or other compelling cir-
    cumstances may result in termination of the current appointment. Reduction-in-force procedures may
    be used to administer such losses.

7. Assigning Occupational Series and Protocol Equivalents.
    7.1. Occupational Series:
       7.1.1. 1701 - General Education and Training/Professional.
       7.1.2. 1720 - Education Program.
       7.1.3. 1730 - Education Research.
       7.1.4. 1750 - Instructional Systems.
    7.2. Protocol Equivalents:
       7.2.1. Professor: GS-14 or 15;
       7.2.2. Associate Professor: GS-13 or 14;
       7.2.3. Assistant Professor: GS-12 or 13;
       7.2.4. Instructor: GS-12.

8. Appointing Faculty to Other Academic Positions. Additional categories integral to the academic
structure are:
    8.1. Visiting Faculty. HQ USAFA/DF, 34 TRW, HQ USAFA/PL and HQ USAFA/AH may appoint
    as visiting faculty, at an appropriate rank and compensation, professionals who may make significant
    contributions to the mission of USAFA. Such appointments normally last for 1 year but may be
    extended by the Mission Element Head. Visiting faculty with outstanding qualifications and reputa-
    tion may be designated Distinguished Visiting Professors.
    8.2. Adjunct Faculty. The Mission Element Head may recognize, by appointment to the adjunct
    rank, distinguished individuals who make significant contributions to the mission of USAFA. Criteria
    for such appointments are equivalent to those for regular rank. Such appointees will normally serve
    without compensation if selected from outside the Federal service.
    8.3. Professorial Administrative Positions. Certain professorial administrative positions deter-
    mined by the Mission Element Head or higher authority are considered "administrative faculty" under
    the Civilian Faculty Personnel Plan. All such positions require the faculty member to hold academic
    rank under paragraph 3.4. Administrative positions not requiring current membership on the faculty
    as a precondition for employment will be filled as other academic appointments. Current faculty
    members may apply along with other applicants without affecting their current positions. Administra-
    tive faculty positions which require membership on the faculty as a precondition for appointment will
    be filled from a list of volunteer faculty members.
USAFAI36-802 26 APRIL 2006                                                       9


9. Form Prescribed. USAFA Form 112.



                                      ERIC L. LESHINSKY, Maj, USAF
                                      Commander, 10th Mission Support Squadron
10                                                                    USAFAI36-802 26 APRIL 2006


                                             Attachment 1

     INTERIM CHANGE (IC) 2006-1 TO USAFAI 36-802, ADMINISTERING AND PAYING
                     CIVILIAN FACULTY, 19 OCTOBER 1995
26 APRIL 2006
OPR: 10 MSS/DPCO (Ms. Nikki King)
Certified by: 10 MSS/DPC (Ms. Karen Warner)

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision incorporates Interim Change IC 2006-1. This revision adds an additional category of civil-
ian faculty members to Paragraph 3.7., Appointing and Promoting Physical Education (PE) Instructors in
the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) Department of Athletics. A bar ( | ) indicates revision
from the previous edition.
3.7.5. Instructor-Coach (Major Sport). Faculty appointed in this category hold the title Major Sport
Instructor. They must meet the academic and experience requirements for instructor (paragraph 3.7.1.
above) and may be hired in any instructional pay band and step based on market conditions and experi-
ence. Major Sport Instructors do not have academic title, nor are they eligible for academic promotion.
Major sports at the USAFA are football, men’s and women’s basketball, volleyball and ice hockey.




ANDREW H. WEAVER, Major, USAF
Commander, 10th Mission Support Squadron
