BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                              ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 40-201

                                                                           20 OCTOBER 2009
                                                         Incorporating Change 1, 15 March 2012

                                                                             Aerospace Medicine

                                                    USAF ACADEMY IONIZING RADIATION
                                                                    SAFETY PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 AMDS/SGPB                                                    Certified by: 10 AMDS/SGP
                                                                              (Col Karen Heupel)
Supersedes:    AFI40-201_USAFASUP,                                                     Pages: 33
               9 October 2007


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 40-2, Radioactive Materials
(Non-Nuclear Weapons). It describes the responsibilities of all personnel involved with the
control and use of radioactive material and ionizing radiation-producing devices. It also
describes necessary procedures for the implementation of an effective radiation safety program at
the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA). This instruction applies to all USAFA
personnel. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the
Air National Guard (ANG). Governing directives for the radiation safety program implemented
by this instruction are DoDI 6055.8, Occupational Radiation Protection Program, Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the USAF, Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry and AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation
Protection. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records        Disposition        Schedule        (RDS)          located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.
 2                                                                                   USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the collection of 10 SFS Electronic Personnel Dosimeters (EPD) by
the USAFA RSO and the placement of all pregnant radiation workers on the radiation dosimetry
program. A margin bar (|) indicates revisions from the previous edition.

       1.     Scope of Instruction. ..............................................................................................           2
       2.     Roles and Responsibilities. ....................................................................................               2
       3.     Jurisdiction. ............................................................................................................    10
       4.     Authorization for the possession and use of radioactive material and radiation producing
              devices. .................................................................................................................. 11
       5.     Ordering and receiving radiation sources. .............................................................                       12
       6.     Inventories. ............................................................................................................     13
       7.     Radioactive Material. .............................................................................................           13
       8.     Ionizing Radiation Producing Devices. .................................................................                       19
       9.     Radiation Exposure Limits. ...................................................................................                19
Table 1.      Radiation Workers. ................................................................................................           19
Table 2.      Members of the Public. ..........................................................................................             20
Table 3.      Embryo/Fetus. ........................................................................................................        20
       10.    Dosimetry. ..............................................................................................................     21
       11.    As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA). ....................................................                                 24
Table 4.      Investigative Levels. ..............................................................................................          24
       12.    Training. .................................................................................................................   26
       13.    Designation of Areas and Posting Requirements. ..................................................                             27
       14.    Emergency Procedures. ..........................................................................................              28
       15.    Reporting Requirements. .......................................................................................               30
       16.    Radon. ....................................................................................................................   31
Table 5.      DELETED. ............................................................................................................         31
       17.    DELETED. ............................................................................................................         31

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              32


1. Scope of Instruction. All personnel and processes associated with acquisition, use, or
disposition of radioactive material or ionizing radiation producing devices. Non-ionizing
radiation sources such as lasers and radiofrequency emitters are not covered by this instruction.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                 3


  2.1. Commander, 10th Air Base Wing. For purposes of this instruction, the Installation
  Commander is the 10 ABW/CC. All references to the Installation Commander hereafter
  shall refer to the 10 ABW/CC.
     2.1.1. Ensures that all installation personnel comply with this instruction. This includes
     military personnel, civilian employees, contractor personnel and visitors.
     2.1.2. Ensures that all installation activities comply with applicable federal and AF
     directives covering the usage of radiation-producing devices; the permitting,
     procurement, storage, handling, accountability for and disposal of radioactive material;
     and the reporting of incidents or accidents to the appropriate authorities.
     2.1.3. Conducts an installation-wide radiation safety program through Bioenvironmental
     Engineering (10 AMDS/SGPB) under the direction of an Installation Radiation Safety
     Officer (USAFA RSO).
     2.1.4. Certifies, in writing, that USAFA is committed to the successful implementation
     of an As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA) program (accomplished through the
     publication of this instruction).
     2.1.5. Designates the USAFA RSO in writing and may designate an Alternate USAFA
     RSO, which may act with full responsibilities of the designated USAFA RSO in his/her
     absence.
     2.1.6. Ensures that the USAFA RSO is notified of all planned uses of radioactive
     material and radiation-producing devices on the installation.
     2.1.7. Enforces the rule that non-Air Force organizations must have proper authorization
     to use radioactive materials and radiation-producing devices on the installation.
  2.2. USAFA Radiation Safety Committee (USAFA RSC) .
     2.2.1. Reviews proposals for the use of licensed radiation sources and makes
     recommendations to the commander concerning the protective measures to be taken. The
     USAFA RSC also includes radiation-producing devices in its purview. The USAFA
     RSC consists of a chairperson designated by the Installation Commander representing the
     executive management of USAFA; a secretary who is the USAFA RSO, the USAFA
     Department of Physics RSO, the 10th Medical Group (10 MDG) RSO, and members
     representing each major installation and tenant organization that uses radiation-producing
     device or radioactive material. Other individuals, because of special qualifications or
     management position, may be nominated and approved for membership by the existing
     members as appropriate. Adjunct members may also be selected to represent specific
     areas. Adjunct members are nonvoting. The USAFA RSC shall meet at least once each
     calendar quarter and a quorum shall consist of a majority of the voting membership
     including the USAFA RSO and the representative of the executive management of
     USAFA.
     2.2.2. Reviews and approves protocols for unique uses of radioactive material and
     radiation-producing devices by permitted activities.
     2.2.3. Submits reports to the Installation Commander concerning all actions taken.
     These reports shall be in the form of minutes of each regularly scheduled and special
     meeting. Minutes shall include: date of the meeting; members in attendance; members
4                                                          USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


       absent; a summary of discussions and decisions (including numerical results of all votes);
       recommended actions (including OPR and open/closed status); approvals for individuals,
       protocols, or other actions and documentation of the basis for the approval; deviations or
       violations of instructions or regulations; changes to permit conditions; inspection results;
       an ALARA program review (including trend analysis over time).
       2.2.4. Reviews training programs for radioactive material, equipment, facilities, supplies
       and procedures to ensure radiation safety.
       2.2.5. Reviews and approves the training and experience qualifications of the proposed
       USAFA RSO before submission to the AF Radioisotope Committee (RIC) for final
       approval.
       2.2.6. Recommends remedial action to correct any deficiencies in the radiation safety
       program.
       2.2.7. Reviews actions taken as a result of recommendations made in mishap reports.
       2.2.8. Reviews and recommends corrective actions for deficiencies identified by NRC
       and AF Inspector General (IG) inspection.
       2.2.9. May function as the Permit Radiation Safety Committee for radioactive material
       permits on the installation.
    2.3. USAFA RSO (or designated alternate) .
       2.3.1. Directs, for the Installation Commander, the overall conduct of the USAFA
       radiation safety program whose primary goal is to maintain radiation exposures to
       personnel ALARA. The USAFA RSO is the individual designated by the Installation
       Commander and the USAFA RSC to enforce all federal, Air Force, state and installation
       rules and instructions relating to radiation safety and to investigate, evaluate, initiate
       corrective actions and report on substantial safety hazards involving radioactive material
       or radiation-producing devices.
       2.3.2. Briefs at least annually the Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health
       Council (ESOHC) or equivalent, on use(s) of radioactive material on the installation.
       Providing summaries and trends of personnel dosimetry results and surveys to
       demonstrate exposures are ALARA.
       2.3.3. Provides annual briefs and periodic updates concerning use and storage of
       radioactive materials to the Installation Commander, fire chief, civil engineer and
       Security Forces Squadron Commander.
       2.3.4. Annually reviews the USAFA radiation safety program and this USAFA
       instruction.
       2.3.5. Maintains all necessary records of the USAFA radiation safety program, AF
       radioactive material permits, USAFA radioactive material/radiation-producing device
       permits, including documentation in support of AF and federal instructions, licenses and
       permits.
       2.3.6. Functions as the secretary of the USAFA RSC and advising the Installation
       Commander on all significant radiation safety related activities.
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                               5


        2.3.6.1. Coordinates with the USAFA RSC on all significant matters involving
        radiation safety.
        2.3.6.2. Reviews occupational radiation exposures of authorized employees quarterly
        to determine that exposures are ALARA. Prepares a summary report for the RSC.
        2.3.6.3. Provides an annual USAFA ALARA review and report.
     2.3.7. Reviews all plans and work orders involving the potential use, movement, transfer
     or disposal of radioactive material.
        2.3.7.1. Provides preliminary hazard evaluations for proposed uses of radioactive
        material or radiation-producing devices.
        2.3.7.2. Identifies to the individual users and their supervisors the protective
        equipment and facilities necessary for the safe conduct of projects involving the use
        of radiation.
     2.3.8. Terminates any operation that, in the opinion of the USAFA RSO, poses a
     substantial radiation safety hazard to personnel or the environment. A report of such
     actions shall be made immediately to the Installation Commander.
     2.3.9. Ensures that personnel and area monitoring are accomplished as required by
     applicable rules and instructions.
     2.3.10. Provides a personnel dosimetry program for employees involved in ionizing
     radiation projects, which includes tracking dosimetry results and establishing
     investigation levels to ensure exposures to personnel are maintained ALARA.
        2.3.10.1. Selects personnel to be monitored as part of the Air Force
        Thermoluminescent Dosimeter (TLD) program and manages this program in
        accordance with AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry.
        2.3.10.2. Approves dosimeter storage locations.
        2.3.10.3. Provides training to personnel enrolling in the dosimetry program.
        2.3.10.4. Determines the administrative dose for lost or damaged dosimeters.
        2.3.10.5. Annually provides an AF Form 1527-1, Annual Dose Report, to each
        individual on the dosimetry program.
        2.3.10.6. Manages the distribution and record-keeping requirements of the personnel
        dosimetry and bioassay program for occupational exposures.
        2.3.10.7. Serves as the OPR for all contingency EPDs on the installation. Will
        collect and ensure that all contingency EPDs are calibrated annually. The USAFA
        RSO will maintain all EPD readers on the installation.
     2.3.11. Ensures that the receipt, shipment and transfer of radioactive material are
     properly monitored and identified.
     2.3.12. Manages and controls the radioactive waste disposal program that ensures proper
     packaging, storage, transport and disposal of radioactive waste by USAFA organizations.
6                                                         USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


       2.3.13. Oversees radioactive material/radiation producing device permits, generally
       licensed devices, and authorization of other radioactive material/radiation producing
       devices.
       2.3.14. Monitors the radiation safety training program for Permit RSOs, supervisors,
       radiation monitors, users of radioactive material and radiation producing devices.
       Radiation safety training provided by others, such as military public health, Permit RSOs
       or supervisors shall be approved by the USAFA RSO.
       2.3.15. Manages and at least annually (or as required by a radioactive material permit)
       updates the USAFA radioactive material and radiation producing device inventory with
       the assistance of Permit RSOs.
       2.3.16. Manages an inventory of calibrated radiation monitoring equipment and check
       sources for use in routine radiological surveillance, compliance surveys, and immediate
       response to emergency situations. Calibration documentation shall be kept for a
       minimum of 3 years.
       2.3.17. Establishes the required frequency of area surveys. Survey results shall include:
       a description or drawing of each measurement location; measured dose or contamination
       levels at each location; the type, model number, serial number, and calibration date of the
       instrument; name of individual performing the survey, date and time of the survey and
       applicable comments.
       2.3.18. Approves or denies non-Air Force organization’s use of radioactive material and
       radiation-producing device on the installation.
       2.3.19. Coordinates and/or performs initial and periodic surveys of all historical
       aerospace vehicles (static displays) and other historical property IAW AFI 84-103, The
       U.S. Air Force Heritage Program.
       2.3.20. Reviews and compiles RAM inventories received from CE (e.g.,
       radioluminescent exit signs), unit radiation safety officers (URSO) or PRSOs and enters
       these into the Radioactive Materials Management Information System.
    2.4. Commander, 10th Medical Group.
       2.4.1. Conducts a medical group radiation safety program under the direction of a
       medical group radiation safety officer (10 MDG RSO). This individual shall be
       responsible for the radiation safety program within the medical group.
       2.4.2. Ensures all pregnant individuals working in potential occupational radiation
       exposure environments during their pregnancy are referred to the USAFA RSO for
       enrollment in the Dosimetry Program on a monthly monitoring frequency. Civilian
       personnel can elect to not be enrolled in the Dosimetry Program, but are highly
       encouraged to enroll. If the civil service worker elects not to be monitored, reassignment
       to a non-radiation work environment is required to ensure the AF meets the legal limit of
       500 mrem during gestation as stated in 10 CFR 20.
       2.4.3. Ensures compete records are maintained of either measured or estimated radiation
       dose received by personnel during occupational practices and contingency operation in
       the member’s medical record.
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                     7


  2.5. Commanders of organizations that use radioactive material or radiation-producing
  devices.
     2.5.1. Coordinates with the USAFA RSO prior to receiving, possessing, using,
     distributing, storing, transporting, transferring or disposing of any radioactive material, or
     commodity containing radioactive material.
     2.5.2. Designates an individual to act as the single focal point for the organization on
     radiation safety matters.
     2.5.3. Ensures that qualified radiological monitors are designated for each functional
     area authorized to possess and use radioactive material or radiation-producing devices.
     2.5.4. Ensures the timely reporting of accidents or incidents involving radioactive
     material or radiation-producing devices to the USAFA RSO.
     2.5.5. Ensures that an ALARA training program is in place.
     2.5.6. Ensures that an annual internal audit is completed and forwarded to the USAFA
     RSO.
     2.5.7. Ensures the maintenance of records and reports required by NRC and AF
     regulations.
  2.6. Permit RSOs, Unit RSOs, or Commander designated individuals.
     2.6.1. Advises the USAFA RSO of the proposed uses of radioactive material or
     radiation-producing devices by individuals within the organization and advising the
     USAFA RSO of any matters affecting the radiation safety program of the organization.
     2.6.2. Conducts an annual quality assurance inspection of their radiation safety program.
     Reference AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the USAF, paragraph 2.25.10.
     for more details.
     2.6.3. Annually briefs the permittee and USAFA RSO on the permit radiation safety
     program.
     2.6.4. Provides an annual ALARA review and report to the permittee and USAFA RSO.
     2.6.5. Coordinates radiation survey or hazard evaluation activities with the USAFA
     RSO.
     2.6.6. Performs those radiation safety duties at the organizational level that are
     commensurate with training and experience.
     2.6.7. Ensures the timely reporting of accidents or incidents involving radioactive
     material or radiation-producing devices to the USAFA RSO and organizational
     commanders.
     2.6.8. Assists in the investigation of incidents or accidents relating to the use of
     radioactive material or radiation-producing devices.
     2.6.9. Ensures that radiation areas and locations where radioactive material are stored
     and used are properly posted.
     2.6.10. Performs or arranges with the USAFA RSO radiation safety and ALARA
     training of newly assigned employees, students or workers who may be occupationally
8                                                          USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


       exposed to ionizing radiation and likely to receive greater than 10% of their annual dose
       limit or 100 mrem in a year, whichever is lower.
       2.6.11. Coordinates with the USAFA RSO before initiating any project including
       procurement, use, storage and or disposal of radioactive material or devices or any
       changes in working conditions or activities that could affect the radiation safety program.
       All coordination shall be accomplished prior to initiation of the project.
       2.6.12. Submits to the USAFA RSO for review any new or revised operating
       instructions, standard operating procedures or unit instructions affecting the radiation
       safety program prior to implementation.
       2.6.13. Ensures that all users are familiar with radiation safety operating instructions and
       radiation safety procedures and trained on the ALARA program.
       2.6.14. Ensures that radiation personnel monitoring devices, when required, are issued
       and worn correctly by all users.
       2.6.15. Advises the USAFA RSO, in writing, of any proposed changes to the radioactive
       material inventory, any proposed acquisition of new radiation-producing devices or any
       proposed generation of radioactive waste. Such notice shall be submitted with sufficient
       lead-time to permit adequate review and comment.
       2.6.16. Issues orders, as appropriate, to cease and desist any permit activity if unsafe
       practices are being used, gross negligence is observed or a failure to follow established
       procedures, policies or regulations is identified.
    2.7. Supervisors of ionizing radiation workers.
       2.7.1. Ensure protection of airmen, USAF civilians, and contractors from occupational
       exposures.
       2.7.2. Ensure protection of the general public from non-occupational exposures resulting
       from AF practices.
       2.7.3. Ensure radiation safety and ALARA training is conducted for all radiation
       workers. Contact the Permit or USAFA RSO for assistance.
       2.7.4. Refer newly assigned personnel and visitors who will enter into an area requiring
       the wear of dosimeters to the USAFA RSO for entry into the dosimetry program prior to
       starting work involving occupational exposure to ionizing radiation.
       2.7.5. Ensure, when applicable, dosimeters are worn properly.
       2.7.6. Immediately report the loss of a worker’s dosimeter to the USAFA RSO.
       2.7.7. Establish a work area operating instruction for radiation protection, enforcing
       compliance with the instruction, and coordinating the instruction with the Permit and/or
       USAFA RSO before publication.
       2.7.8. Immediately notify the USAFA RSO of potentially unsafe work practices or
       radiation accidents or incidents. Do not change the set-up of anything involved other
       than taking actions to end the immediate hazard.
       2.7.9. Notify the primary care manager of the declared pregnancy status of workers.
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                 9


  2.8. Individuals using radioactive material or radiation-producing devices.
     2.8.1. Learn and implement the rules of radiation safety as described in applicable
     federal, AF and USAFA instructions as well as in organizational operating instructions.
     2.8.2. Wear personnel monitoring devices if directed by their supervisors and the
     USAFA RSO.
     2.8.3. Wear appropriate protective clothing and equipment as prescribed by supervisors
     and the USAFA RSO.
     2.8.4. Complete training and becoming familiar with the ALARA program which is
     dedicated to maintaining exposure to ionizing radiation ALARA.
     2.8.5. Perform operations in a manner that maintains doses ALARA.
     2.8.6. Report incidents/accidents and hazardous conditions immediately to their
     supervisor or the USAFA RSO if appropriate.
     2.8.7. Assist the supervisor or the USAFA RSO, as directed, to control the site of an
     accident/incident.
     2.8.8. Inform their supervisor of any changes in equipment, procedures or other factors
     involving radioactive material or radiation-producing devices that may alter the radiation
     safety practices or radiation levels in unrestricted areas.
     2.8.9. Provide to the Permit or USAFA RSO information on past and current work as is
     relevant to ensure effective and comprehensive protection and safety for themselves and
     others. This includes work outside the USAF where they may also incur radiation
     exposures (IAW 10 CFR 20.2104).
     2.8.10. An active duty pregnant female, shall, on becoming aware she is pregnant, notify
     her Commander, workplace supervisor, and the Public Health office. A non-military
     member should notify the Commander, workplace supervisor, and Public Health office.
     Note: It is important to remember that it is the decision of a civilian woman whether or
     not she declares her pregnancy.
  2.9. Contracting Squadron (10 CONS). Contact the USAFA RSO prior to placing orders
  or allowing work to commence if any requests for activities or items involving radioactive
  material or radiation producing devices are received without any documentation of RSO
  approval.
  2.10. Traffic Management Office (10 LRS/LRSMST).
     2.10.1. Package and ship all radioactive materials in accordance with Department of
     Transportation (DOT) requirements. Obtain technical guidance from USAFA RSO as
     needed to accomplish this task.
     2.10.2. Maintain written procedures and log for processing and monitoring of inbound
     and outbound radioactive shipments.
     2.10.3. Notify USAFA RSO within 3 hours of a package received with DOT white or
     yellow radioactive materials labels. Places hold on package pickup until USAFA RSO or
     designated representative accomplishes safety survey. Assists the USAFA RSO in
     performing the safety survey as necessary.
 10                                                       USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


       2.10.4. Notify the USAFA RSO, prior to shipment, of any outgoing packages that
       contain radioactive material. Provide the USAFA RSO with identity of shipper,
       appropriate point of contact, and telephone number. Radioactive material packages must
       not be shipped without USAFA RSO approval (Exception: USAFA RSO approval is not
       necessary for 10 MDG shipments approved by the 10 MDG RSO and accompanied by a
       copy of the 10 MDG radioactive material permit and a current DOT hazardous material
       training certificate).
   2.11. Base Supply (10 LRS/LRSMST).
       2.11.1. Maintain an unrestricted radioactive material storage area, if needed, for
       serviceable excess or unserviceable stock-listed commodities (containing radioactive
       materials) which have been turned in by using organizations for return to stock or for
       disposition decision. The storage area will remain an unrestricted area as long as no more
       than 100 radioactive electron tubes and/or spark gaps are stored there and the radiation
       exposure and dose rate outside the bins remains below 2 milli-Roentgens per hour and
       100 mrem per year consistent with limits for the general public.
          2.11.1.1. Post a completed Radioactive Material Warning Placard in the area.
          2.11.1.2. Post a completed Radioactive Material Warning Label in or on each bin
          containing a radioactive commodity.
          2.11.1.3. Contact the USAFA RSO if the number or type of items in storage increase
          beyond a total of 100 items, including lensatic compasses.
          2.11.1.4. Establish written procedures for handling radioactive items turned in by
          organizations or individuals. Procedures must specifically address radioactive items
          turned in to the Individual Equipment Issue Element and provide appropriate
          instructions for all personnel on handling, storage, requesting disposition instructions,
          and shipping of radioactive items.
   2.12. Security Forces (10 SFS).
       2.12.1. Attempt to identify and stop all contractors or contractor vehicle operators from
       bringing radioactive materials onto installation without authorization from the USAFA
       RSO.
       2.12.2. Verification of transport authorization (receiving and/or shipping out of
       radioactive material) may be obtained by calling Bioenvironmental Engineering.
       Bioenvironmental Engineering’s contact numbers are:
       2.12.3. Immediately notifies the IRSO of suspected, attempted or actual theft or sabotage
       of RAM, to include supply items containing RAM. This includes any situation where the
       potential for collateral damage exists due to threats in near proximity to RAM.
       2.12.4. Works with the USAFA RSO to develop an EPD calibration schedule that will
       meet 10 SFS mission requirements.
3. Jurisdiction.
   3.1. The USAFA RSC and USAFA RSO have complete jurisdiction over all radiation safety
   matters on USAFA.
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                   11


   3.2. The USAFA/DFP RSO and 10 MDG RSO, specifically named on an AF radioactive
   material permit are hereby delegated responsibility for all radiation safety matters within the
   Department of Physics and the Medical Group respectively. The USAFA/DFP and 10 MDG
   RSOs shall make available for review by the USAFA RSO all reports concerning x-ray
   evaluations, radioactive material storage area evaluations, exposure investigations and any
   other documentation such as the annual ALARA report that concerns radiation safety.
4. Authorization for the possession and use of radioactive material and radiation
producing devices.
   4.1. To obtain, possess or use radioactive material or ionizing radiation producing devices,
   the owner must first possess one of the following:
      4.1.1. AF Permit. USAFA organizations may be issued AF radioactive material permits
      by the RIC authorizing the possession and use of radioactive material on USAFA.
      4.1.2. USAFA Permit. The USAFA RSC has reserved the authority to control the
      possession and use of radiation-producing devices such as x-ray machines and
      accelerators that are not under the jurisdiction of either the NRC or the RIC.
      4.1.3. USAFA RSO Written Authorization. The USAFA RSO may issue written
      authorization for radioactive materials that do not require a permit (such as generally
      licensed devices or exempt quantities) or ionizing radiation producing devices. Written
      authorization may be in the form of a memorandum, email, inventory or survey.
   4.2. Other Organizations. Organizations located at USAFA and contractors performing
   work at USAFA must possess an NRC or Agreement State License, an AF or Navy
   radioactive material permit, or USAFA radioactive material/radiation-producing device
   authorization in order to possess and/or use radioactive material or radiation-producing
   devices.
      4.2.1. Contractors performing services involving the use of radioactive material under
      the auspices of their own NRC or Agreement State License shall provide a copy of that
      license to the USAFA RSO well in advance of operations being conducted at USAFA.
      For contractors licensed by an Agreement State, in addition to a copy of the license, a
      completed copy of NRC Form 241, Report of Proposed Activities in Non-Agreement
      States, Areas of Federal Jurisdiction, or Offshore Waters, shall be submitted to the
      USAFA RSO. The USAFA RSO will review the license to ensure that the material and
      activities are authorized. The contractor shall be required to comply with all applicable
      sections of this instruction as it applies to safe use of radioactive material and the
      reporting of incidents or accidents to the USAFA RSO. The USAFA RSO shall be
      notified when the operation is terminated.
      4.2.2. Contractors performing services involving the use of radioactive material under
      the auspices of an AF radioactive material permit issued to USAFA shall comply with all
      requirements specified in this instruction.
      4.2.3. Contractors who will be using radiation-producing devices shall obtain a USAFA
      permit from the USAFA RSO prior to use. Coordinate such activities with the USAFA
      RSO prior to bringing radiation-producing devices onto the installation.
 12                                                           USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


       4.2.4. For both radioactive material and radiation-producing device activities contractors
       shall provide a brief description of the work to be performed. Include the dates and
       locations where such activities shall be performed. While working on the installation, the
       USAFA RSO can make on-site inspections to ensure the contractor follows proper
       radiation safety practices and can suspend any operations deemed to be unsafe or in
       violation of AF or NRC regulations.
   4.3. Permit/Authorization Requests. Requests for AF radioactive material permits or
   USAFA radioactive material/radiation producing device authorization shall be submitted in
   writing to the USAFA RSO. Applications for new permits, renewals of old permits, or
   amendments to existing permits or authorizations shall be reviewed by the USAFA RSO who
   may either (a) reject the application, (b) return it for additional clarification, (c) refer it to the
   RIC or USAFA RSC for review, or (d) issue a permit or authorization. Once approved,
   organizations are required to comply with the statements made in their application as well as
   any additional conditions imposed by the USAFA RSO and the USAFA RSC and listed as a
   condition of the permit or authorization itself. Any changes in the activities or personnel
   specified in the permit shall be accompanied by the submission of an application for
   amendment of the permit. Applications for amendments shall be submitted in the same
   manner as the original or renewal application except that only those items being changed
   need be addressed.
   4.4. Permit Authorization. An AF or USAFA radioactive material/radiation producing
   device permit or USAFA RSO written authorization authorizes the possession and use of
   radioactive material or radiation-producing devices. However, operations conducted under
   the conditions of the permit must be documented to ensure compliance with the USAFA
   ALARA program.
5. Ordering and receiving radiation sources. No one may order or receive radioactive
material or radiation-producing devices without first obtaining an AF radioactive material
permit, USAFA permit, or written approval from the USAFA RSO for possession and use of the
material or device.
   5.1. Authorization. Individuals or organizations who are issued a valid AF permit, USAFA
   permit, or written approval from the USAFA RSO, may order radioactive material or
   radiation-producing devices authorized by their permit. When placing orders, the following
   actions shall be accomplished:
       5.1.1. The order must be forwarded to the USAFA RSO through the Permit RSO prior to
       submission to procurement.
       5.1.2. If an order is to be verbal (i.e., placed by phone or directly to a visiting supplier)
       the USAFA RSO shall be notified immediately by phone of the intent to order and this
       shall be followed within five workdays by a written notification to the USAFA RSO.
       5.1.3. The USAFA RSO shall review the order to ensure it does not exceed the
       appropriate authorization, shall file a copy of the request with the permit or written
       approval, and forward the original to procurement or provide verbal authorization for
       immediate action.
       5.1.4. The purchase order request shall specify that the USAFA RSO shall be contacted
       at 333-4825 during normal duty hours on receipt of the item at any location on USAFA.
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                 13


       If the package contains radioactive material and appears to be damaged or leaking, the
       USAFA RSO shall be notified immediately through the USAFA Command Post at 333-
       2633.
       5.1.5. On notification that the item has arrived at USAFA, the USAFA RSO shall either
       send a member of the staff to inspect and monitor the package or merely request
       notification when the package is delivered to the user. Only the USAFA RSO or the user
       shall open the package. The action taken shall depend on the hazard associated with the
       particular item and the condition of the package.
       5.1.6. After the package is opened by the user and the contents examined, the USAFA
       RSO shall be notified immediately if there is either a discrepancy between the items
       ordered and received or if the items appear damaged. If all items are as ordered and in
       acceptable condition, notification shall be in writing to permit updating of the master
       USAFA inventory (copies of shipping documents should be included).
   5.2. Special precautions when receiving and opening packages containing radioactive
   material.
       5.2.1. Visually inspect the package and, if damaged, notify the USAFA RSO
       immediately.
       5.2.2. Measure the exposure rate at the package surface and, if greater than expected,
       contact the USAFA RSO.
       5.2.3. Wear gloves when opening a package containing liquids.
       5.2.4. Verify the contents with the packing slip.
       5.2.5. Examine the integrity of the final source container.
       5.2.6. If anything unusual is encountered contact the USAFA RSO.
       5.2.7. As specified in 10 CFR 20.1906, packages containing in excess of certain
       specified quantities of radioactive material must be monitored for external radiation and
       contamination within 3 hours after receipt during working hours and within 3 hours from
       the beginning of the next working day if it is received after working hours.
6. Inventories.
   6.1. All radioactive material and radiation producing devices shall be inventoried at least
   annually or at the frequency specified in the permit.
   6.2. Inventory documentation will include: date of inventory; model and serial number;
   identity of radionuclide and quantity (manufacture date if sealed source); source activity;
   location of source; NSN if applicable; signature of Permit RSO or owner.
7. Radioactive Material.
   7.1. Permitted radioactive material . All radioactive material governed by an AF permit
   will be maintained IAW the requirements of that permit.
   7.2. Generally licensed devices . The licensee must:
       7.2.1. Appoint an individual from within their organization who will ensure compliance
       with applicable regulations, to include the general provisions of 10 CFR 31.2, Terms and
14                                                        USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


     Conditions, the specific regulatory requirements unique to the device, and who will have
     the authority to execute the necessary actions to ensure compliance. The appointed
     individual shall work with the USAFA RSO to ensure compliance with applicable
     regulations.
     7.2.2. . Preserve all labels affixed to the device and follow all instructions on the label.
     7.2.3. Test the device for leakage of radioactive material, and proper operation of any
     on-off mechanism or indicator, if any, at no longer than 6 month intervals, or as specified
     by the device label. Exception: Devices containing only krypton, devices containing
     only tritium, devices containing not more than 100 micro Curies of other beta and/or
     gamma emitter or 10 micro Curies of alpha emitter, and devices held in their initial
     shipping container prior to installation.
     7.2.4. Suspend operation of the device if there is damage/failure to the device’s
     shielding, detection of removable contamination exceeding 0.005 micro Curie, or failure
     of its on/off mechanism.
     7.2.5. Not transfer a 31.5 device to another organization unless that organization has a
     specific license to receive that device. Upon transfer of a generally licensed item, a
     report must be submitted within 30 days to the NRC to include the recipient’s contact
     information and license number, the name, model and serial number of the unit, and the
     date of transfer.
     7.2.6. Properly dispose of generally licensed devices.
     7.2.7. Under no circumstances transfer any generally licensed device/item to Defense
     Reutilization and Marketing Service for disposal.
     7.2.8. Comply with the reporting requirements as they apply to reporting radiation
     incidents, theft or loss of material.
     7.2.9. Report to the NRC changes to mailing addresses for the location of use (to include
     name of the general licensee) within 30 days of the effective change.
     7.2.10. Not store generally licensed devices without use for more than 2 years. Devices
     held in storage requiring leak tests or testing of the on-off device need not be tested if the
     storage time exceeds the interval of testing. Devices that contain shutters must be locked
     in the closed position during storage. The device must be leak tested before transfer or
     use and the shutter must be tested before use.
  7.3. Radioactive material work procedures. Although each work environment shall
  necessitate individual work practices, the following procedures shall be incorporated in all
  radioactive material work procedures:
     7.3.1. Wear laboratory coats or other protective clothing at all times where unsealed
     radioactive material is used.
     7.3.2. Wear disposable gloves at all times while handling unsealed radioactive material.
     7.3.3. Before leaving restricted areas and where unsealed radioactive material is used,
     monitor hands and clothing for contamination with an appropriately sensitive survey
     meter.
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                  15


     7.3.4. Areas where unsealed radioactive material are stored or used shall be coordinated
     with the USAFA and Permit RSOs. No eating, drinking or smoking shall be permitted in
     these areas. In addition, cosmetics shall not be applied in those areas and exposed
     portions of the body such as the face should not be touched.
     7.3.5. Do not store food, drink, or personal effects in areas where radioactive material are
     stored or used.
     7.3.6. If issued, wear personnel monitoring devices at all times while in areas where
     radioactive material are used or stored.
     7.3.7. Dispose of radioactive waste only in designated, labeled and properly shielded
     containers.
     7.3.8. Do not pipette radioactive liquids by mouth.
     7.3.9. Wash hands before eating, drinking, smoking or leaving work area.
     7.3.10. Discard contaminated protective equipment such as rubber gloves and boots into
     segregated radioactive waste disposal containers.
     7.3.11. Individuals with open wounds shall not work with radioactive material without
     proper protection.
     7.3.12. Items shall not be placed in ordinary trash or flushed down non-approved drains
     unless they are first checked for radioactivity with an appropriately sensitive survey
     meter and it is documented that they meet all applicable standards.
     7.3.13. In areas where unsealed radioactive material is used, monitor surfaces after each
     use.
  7.4. Leak testing of radioactive material.
     7.4.1. Sealed sources of radioactive material are leak tested at intervals specified in the
     AF radioactive material permits. Current requirements are:
         7.4.1.1. Beta and gamma sources in excess of 100 micro curies - every 6 months.
         7.4.1.2. Alpha sources, designed for the purposes of alpha emissions, in excess of 10
         micro curies - every 3 months.
     7.4.2. Analysis. Leak testing shall be accomplished by the Permit RSO, USAFA RSO or
     staff for analysis by USAFA RSO or other that is licensed/permitted to perform the
     analysis.
     7.4.3. Results. Results shall be maintained by the USAFA RSO and a copy forwarded to
     the user along with an interpretation of the results and any actions required.
     7.4.4. Leaking source. If contamination is detected in excess of acceptable limits
     (usually 0.005 micro curie), the source shall be secured in an isolated area until
     arrangements can be made for the USAFA RSO and staff to supervise decontamination
     of the item or packaging for shipment either to the supplier or an approved radioactive
     waste disposal site.
  7.5. Radioactive waste.
16                                                        USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


     7.5.1. Responsibility. Organizations possessing a valid radioactive material permit may
     generate radioactive waste during the course of their operations. Each organization shall
     assume full responsibility for collection, packaging, storage and disposal of radioactive
     waste generated. Each organization shall provide a secure, isolated area for temporary
     storage of its own waste, on-site, near the location where generated. Each site shall be
     approved by the USAFA RSO. When a container is filled and ready for disposal, the
     USAFA RSO shall be notified. The USAFA RSO or Permit RSO shall make
     arrangements for pickup of the waste by a disposal contractor authorized by AF
     Radioactive Waste Program Office or transferred to an authorized AF radioactive
     material permit. Contracts for pickup and disposal of radioactive waste shall NOT be
     made by the generator.
     7.5.2. Management of radioactive waste. To ensure safe handling of radioactive waste,
     the following guidance is provided. Any proposed deviations from this guidance must be
     submitted in writing to the USAFA RSO and approved prior to implementation.
     7.5.3. Generation of Waste. The primary goal of all users is to minimize the
     accumulation of radioactive waste. Do not combine radioactive and non-radioactive
     waste. Guidance may be obtained from the USAFA RSO. Most radioactive waste is
     generated in one of two ways:
        7.5.3.1. Routinely, such as in a research laboratory or medical treatment center.
        7.5.3.2. Infrequently, such as when a device used for many years is no longer
        required. In this case, the USAFA RSO should be contacted as soon as the item is
        identified as excess and the USAFA RSO shall provide specific directives for the
        proper management of the item. If the item is small, radiologically stable and
        presents no unusual hazard, the USAFA RSO may elect to assume responsibility for
        the item, consolidating it with other similar items for more efficient disposal. If this
        is the case, the USAFA RSO may store the items in a secure location until enough
        have accumulated to fill a shipping container.
     7.5.4. Segregation. Segregation is an important aspect of proper waste disposal.
     Commercial radioactive waste disposal facilities typically have extremely conservative
     segregation and disposal criteria.
        7.5.4.1. Solids from liquids. Examples are separation of solid check sources from
        liquid scintillation vials or separation of vials containing liquid scintillation fluid from
        surgical gloves, paper products and glassware that may be coated with the same fluid.
        7.5.4.2. High activity from low activity radionuclides. An example is separation of
        sources that are less than one millicurie from sources that are greater than or equal to
        one millicurie.
        7.5.4.3. Long half-life from short half-life radionuclides. An example is separation
        of sources that have half-lives less than 120 days from those that have half-lives
        greater than or equal to 120 days. Short half-life material may be decayed in storage
        and disposed of as non-radioactive waste if approved by the USAFA RSO in writing
        (paragraph 7.5.10).
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                      17


        7.5.4.4. Different categories of material. An example is separation of alpha emitters
        such as plutonium and americium from gamma emitters such as cobalt and cesium.
        7.5.4.5. Chemical/biological waste from radioactive waste. An example is separation
        of radionuclides contained in animal carcasses from those contained in liquid
        scintillation vials.
     7.5.5. Containers. Radioactive waste shall only be collected in new or recently
     refurbished containers such as 55-gallon drums. A container should be chosen which can
     be filled in one year or less. The selected container must show no extensive signs of
     weathering or mishandling (i.e., no rust or dents) and must have no openings other than
     the top lid (i.e., no bung holes, even if sealed). If the container has a gasket on the lid, the
     gasket must be neoprene and no moisture is permitted inside the container. The National
     Stock Number (NSN) for an acceptable 30 gallon drum is 8110-00-866-1728 while the
     NSN for an acceptable 55 gallon drum is 8110-00-082-2626. If there are any doubts as to
     the acceptability of a container, contact the USAFA RSO.
     7.5.6. Liners. The container used for radioactive waste shall have two transparent
     plastic liners or one 8 mm liner installed. The liners shall be at least 4 mils thick and be
     appropriate in size for the container used. They shall be of sufficient length so that the
     top of each liner can be twisted into a tail long enough to be folded over onto itself and
     the inverted ―U‖-shaped end secured with duct tape. If there are any doubts as to the
     acceptability of liners, contact the USAFA RSO.
        7.5.6.1. Solids. If only solid waste is generated, the two plastic liners described
        above shall be placed one inside the other directly inside the container. Each liner
        shall be sealed individually resulting in a double encapsulation.
        7.5.6.2. Liquids. Liquids are not normally acceptable for radioactive waste disposal.
        Some liquids may be disposed of through the sanitary sewer; however, the decanting
        requirements must be satisfied. Other liquids such as contained in liquid scintillation
        vials are acceptable but must be collected separately from all other waste. The
        following is a summary of the procedures for packaging of liquid scintillation vials
        for disposal:
            7.5.6.2.1. For collection of liquid scintillation vials, the first liner shall be
            installed in the container, followed by at least 5 inches of absorbent material such
            as NSN 7930-00-269-1272. The amount of absorbent material must be sufficient
            to absorb twice the amount of liquid, however, DO NOT pour the liquid into the
            absorbent material, leave it in the vials. The second liner shall then be placed
            over this dry absorbent layer.
            7.5.6.2.2. The container shall consist of a drum, a plastic liner, a layer of
            absorbent material and finally a second liner. The waste is placed inside this
            second liner. If the waste consists of liquid scintillation vials, the intact vials shall
            be placed inside this inner liner. Once the inner liner is secured, another 5 inches
            of absorbent material shall be placed on top of this sealed inner liner before the
            outer liner is sealed. This top layer of absorbent material is intended to absorb the
            liquid should the drum be turned upside down. The reason for this procedure is
            that at the disposal site, the container and outer liner shall be opened and the inner
18                                                       USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


            liner shall be removed from the container. Its contents shall then be placed in a
            machine that shall separate the liquid scintillation fluid from the vials. Therefore,
            no absorbent material or any other objects may be placed inside the inner liner.
     7.5.7. Inner Containers. As items are deposited in the radioactive waste drum, it is
     recommended that smaller transparent plastic containers be used to hold routine
     quantities of waste generated. For example, the waste generated each day during an
     experiment may be placed in a separate plastic container and sealed.
     7.5.8. Final Closure. When a container is full and ready for disposal, the USAFA RSO
     shall be notified. The USAFA RSO or representative shall visually inspect the container
     and shall initial the inventory sheets to indicate that proper procedures were followed.
     Since items packaged in the drum shall not normally be removed for a detailed inventory,
     the USAFA RSO shall not assume responsibility for problems arising as a result of
     incorrect inventories.
     7.5.9. Disposal to Sanitary Sewer. Liquid radioactive waste to be disposed through the
     sanitary sewer shall only be authorized by the USAFA RSO. The USAFA RSO shall
     review the types and amounts of material proposed for disposal and the procedures and
     shall verify that such disposal is authorized and does not exceed the maximum
     permissible quantities established in 10CFR20.2003. If such disposal is deemed
     acceptable, the USAFA RSO shall designate and label a drain approved for liquid
     radioactive waste and only this drain shall be used. Material shall be flushed with a
     continuous stream of water for the time indicated by USAFA RSO.
     7.5.10. Decay-In-Storage (DIS). DIS may be authorized by the USAFA RSO for all
     radioactive waste with half-lives less than 120 days. DIS is a procedure in which
     radioactive waste is placed in a storage container such as a drum and allowed to remain
     undisturbed for at least 10 half-lives. After the 10 half-lives have elapsed, the remaining
     activity shall be approximately one thousandth of the original activity but it must still be
     monitored by the USAFA RSO using an appropriately sensitive survey meter to ensure
     that no radiation above background is detectable. For DIS to be most effective,
     radioactive waste must be segregated according to half-life. Ideally, each container
     would contain only radionuclides with the same half-life. However, more realistically,
     the radioactive waste should be segregated into several categories according to half-life,
     such as, 1-15 days, 16-30 days, 31-45 days, 46-65 days, and 66-120 days.
     7.5.11. Incineration. Authorization to incinerate can only be granted by the RIC
     through the USAFA RSO and must be specified as a condition to a USAFA radioactive
     material permit before it can be accomplished. Incineration shall normally only be
     approved for cases where disposal to a commercial radioactive waste burial site is
     difficult   or   impossible     such     as for   animal   carcasses   or   mixed
     chemical/biological/radioactive waste where the incineration of the chemical and
     biological components is not restricted.
     7.5.12. Specific Waste. The NRC has authorized the disposal of some small quantities
     of radioactive waste as normal waste. This authorization applies only to carbon-14 (C-
     14) and hydrogen-3 (H-3), also known as tritium. Specifically, 10 CFR 20.2005, states
     that C-14 and H-3 may be disposed of without regard to radioactivity, if the amount is
     less than or equal to 0.05 micro curie per gram of medium used for liquid scintillation
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                 19


      counting or per gram of animal tissue averaged over the weight of the entire animal. This
      exemption does not eliminate the requirement to dispose of the scintillation fluid and
      carcasses according to applicable chemical and biological waste disposal instructions. In
      addition, the instruction requires records of the amount disposed be maintained to ensure
      compliance.
      7.5.13. Records. Every item that is placed into a waste disposal container, flushed down
      an approved drain, incinerated or allowed to DIS, shall be recorded. A separate form
      shall be maintained by the generator for each container, each drain, and each incinerator
      and all of the columns listed on the form shall be completed. If inner containers are used
      they should be numbered consecutively and the inventory should indicate into which
      inner container each item of waste was placed. When a container is ready to be sealed for
      disposal or DIS, the USAFA RSO shall be informed.
8. Ionizing Radiation Producing Devices.
   8.1. All workplaces utilizing ionizing radiation producing devices shall have and implement
   written operating and safety procedures. These procedures shall be made available to each
   individual operating a radiation-producing machine.
      8.1.1. These procedures shall be reviewed annually.
      8.1.2. Medical operating and safety procedures shall cover the requirements in AFI 48-
      148, Ionizing Radiation Protection, chapter 4.
   8.2. All medical departments using radiation producing devices shall implement a quality
   control program IAW AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Program, paragraph 4.6.
9. Radiation Exposure Limits.
   9.1. Personnel Exposure. Personnel who work with radioactive material or radiation-
   producing devices may be exposed to radiation during the course of their employment. The
   goal of the radiation safety program at USAFA is to maintain all radiation exposures
   ALARA. However, it may be impossible to completely eliminate all radiation exposure.
      9.1.1. Dose Limits. Federal regulations (10 CFR Part 20) specify the maximum
      permissible dose limits for radiation workers, workers under 18 years of age, non-
      radiation workers (i.e., members of the general public) and embryo/fetus. See Tables 1,
      2, and 3 for maximum permissible dose limits for workers.

Table 1. Radiation Workers.
     In Any Calendar Year            Radiation Workers             Workers Under 18

     Whole body (TEDE)                     5 rem                        0.5 rem

     Lens of eye                           15 rem                       1.5 rem

     Skin or extremities                   50 rem                        5 rem
 20                                                       USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


      *The whole body means, for purposes of external exposure, head, trunk (including
      male gonads), arms above the elbow, or legs above the knee. TEDE means total
      effective dose equivalent.


Table 2. Members of the Public.
                             One year                                100 millirem

                         In Any One Hour                              2 millirem

          The dose in any unrestricted area resulting from AF controlled radiation
          sources shall not exceed the limits specified above. The USAFA RSO shall
          be responsible for the assessment, either by measurement or calculation,
          that these dose limits are not exceeded and shall maintain such records for a
          period of three years. If integrated radiation levels could exceed these
          limits, the area must be restricted.

Table 3. Embryo/Fetus.
                          Entire pregnancy            500 millirem

                          Monthly                     50 millirem

   9.2. Occupational Exposure of Fertile Females.
       9.2.1. Each female potentially occupationally exposed to ionizing radiation shall be
       informed by the USAFA RSO or a member of the staff of the risks to the unborn.
       9.2.2. A female military member shall, on becoming aware she is pregnant, notify her
       workplace supervisor or primary care manager. A non-military member should notify
       her workplace supervisor or primary care manager. A civilian woman’s decision to
       declare her pregnancy is voluntary. Declaration of pregnancy shall be in writing and
       include the estimated date of conception.
           9.2.2.1. All pregnant radiation workers will be placed on the radiation dosimetry
           program by the USAFA RSO.
       9.2.3. The USAFA RSO may limit specific duties of a declared pregnant female who is
       occupationally exposed to radiation and who in the opinion of the USAFA RSO may
       receive a whole body exposure greater than 500 millirem per year, either in the course of
       routine duties or as a result of a credible accident involving the radioactive material or
       radiation-producing devices. The USAFA RSO’s evaluation shall include consideration
       of the workplace and the source of radiation, the individual’s past history of exposure to
       radiation as documented by personnel dosimetry records, current radiation measurements
       applicable to her specific tasks, current exposure histories of coworkers, and likely
       exposures that would be incurred in the event of a credible accident.
       9.2.4. If the USAFA RSO determines it is unlikely that the declared pregnant female
       would receive a total exposure during the term of the pregnancy (including the period
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                  21


      preceding the confirmation of the pregnancy) in excess of 500 millirem, she may
      continue in her radiation-related duties. However, if the individual is not already on the
      AF personnel dosimetry program, she shall be enrolled for the duration of her pregnancy.
      Should exposure results indicate a trend which, if continued, could result in exceeding the
      500 millirem limit, a re-evaluation shall be made as to whether she should continue her
      radiation duties, be restricted from certain high risk duties, or be removed entirely from
      occupational exposure.
      9.2.5. Special consideration must be made when a declared pregnant worker’s radiation
      duties involve the operation of high output sources or the use of unsealed radioactive
      material. Pregnant workers shall not continue in duties involving these sources without
      the concurrence of AFMOA/SG3PB. When a pregnancy is suspected and reported to the
      immediate supervisor, women working with such sources or materials shall receive a
      prompt evaluation by the USAFA RSO (within five workdays after receipt of the consult
      request) and, if warranted, actions such as restrictions or removal from the workplace
      may be taken even prior to confirmation of the pregnancy.
10. Dosimetry.
   10.1. Radiation Workers. Individuals who routinely work with or near sources of ionizing
   radiation may be designated as radiation workers by the USAFA RSO after an evaluation of
   the potential hazards. Radiation workers are issued radiation dosimeters which are
   exchanged either monthly or quarterly as determined by the USAFA RSO. In certain
   circumstances, radiation workers may also be issued self-reading pocket or digital dosimeters
   in addition to standard radiation dosimeters to permit immediate evaluation of a potentially
   hazardous radiation environment.
      10.1.1. AF radiation dosimeters shall only be issued to military or civilian government
      employees or contractors working with government owned and operated radiation
      sources. Contractors using contractor owned and operated radiation sources shall be
      required to provide dosimeters to their own personnel unless a fee for service agreement
      is reached with USAFSAM.
      10.1.2. The USAFA RSO and his/her staff are responsible for:
          10.1.2.1. Determining whether radiation monitoring is required.
          10.1.2.2. Determining the frequency of radiation monitoring.
          10.1.2.3. Issuing and exchanging radiation dosimeters.
      10.1.3. The supervisor, or designated radiation dosimeter monitor, of a newly assigned
      worker has the responsibility to request radiation monitoring for that individual.
      Monitoring shall be required if the worker shall be located in an area designated by the
      USAFA RSO as a potential radiation hazard area or if, because of the assigned duties, the
      individual is classified as a radiation worker requiring dosimetry.
      10.1.4. Each individual to be monitored shall be provided with a radiation safety briefing
      to include an explanation concerning proper wearing and storage of the dosimeter and the
      right to review the dosimetry results each month or quarter. The USAFA RSO shall
      ensure that each individual monitored is provided with the summary results of dosimetry
      (internal and external) annually on AF Form 1527-1.
22                                                         USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


     10.1.5. The supervisor shall reinforce this information by introducing the dosimeter
     monitor who shall indicate the dosimeter storage location and describe the procedures for
     requesting a review of the dosimetry results maintained by the supervisor.
  10.2. Visitors. Visitors to any restricted areas shall be accompanied by persons
  knowledgeable about the protection and safety measures in the area and must be provided
  adequate information and instruction before entering the area. Visitors entering a radiation
  area or a high radiation area or that could incur a deep dose equivalent of greater than 10
  millirem shall be provided personnel monitoring devices. In those rare instances where it is
  essential for visitors to enter such restricted areas for brief periods and where they may
  receive greater than 10 millirem, the supervisor shall ensure that each visitor is provided with
  a self reading pocket dosimeter or other radiation monitoring device and that the following
  information is recorded and a copy provided to the USAFA RSO:
     10.2.1. Name.
     10.2.2. Organization/Address.
     10.2.3. Telephone No.
     10.2.4. Social Security Account Number (SSAN).
     10.2.5. Dosimeter Serial No.
     10.2.6. Initial and final dose readings (if direct reading).
     10.2.7. Date, time and duration of visit.
     10.2.8. If at all possible, prior coordination with the USAFA RSO concerning visitor
     access to restricted radiation areas should be accomplished.
  10.3. Reporting. Monthly or quarterly, as applicable, report of the exposures recorded on
  the dosimeters is published (AF Listing 1499, Occupational Radiation Exposure Report).
  This report is provided to the USAFA RSO who reviews the results to determine if the
  exposures recorded are in compliance with the ALARA program. After review of the report,
  the USAFA RSO forwards a copy to the supervisors of the personnel monitored. These
  results shall be available to radiation workers for review.
  10.4. Dosimeters. There are several types of dosimeters which may be issued and specific
  rules governing proper wear of dosimeters:
     10.4.1. Thermoluminescent dosimeter (TLD) badges are issued to monitor personnel for
     radiation exposure. There are three types of badges:
         10.4.1.1. The whole body badge is designed to measure the radiation exposure to the
         entire body. The badge should be worn at the location of highest expected whole
         body radiation dose. The whole body badge is typically worn somewhere between
         the waist and the shoulders. The badge will provide a measure of the radiation
         exposure to the internal organs and the gonads. If the individual normally faces the
         radiation source, the badge should be worn on the front. If the radiation source is
         routinely behind the individual, the badge may be worn on the back. It should always
         be worn so as to be exposed to the same radiation environment as the body.
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                  23


         10.4.1.2. The collar badge is worn on the shirt collar. It is designed to measure the
         radiation exposure to the critical organs above the shoulders, i.e., the thyroid in the
         neck and the lens of the eye. When a protective shield such as a lead apron is worn,
         the collar badge is placed outside the protective shield not under it. Results are often
         reported as a ―head‖ dose.
         10.4.1.3. The extremity badge or finger badge is worn like a ring on a finger of the
         hand which is most likely to be exposed to the radiation. If the source of radiation is
         typically held in the hand, the ring should be worn with the top portion turned around
         facing the palm and the radiation. If the radiation originates from a remote source
         such as an x-ray diffraction unit and the hand is likely to be exposed from the back,
         the ring should be worn in the usual manner.
     10.4.2. If dosimeters are issued, a whole body dosimeter is always worn by a radiation
     worker. Any other badges issued are worn in addition to the whole body badge.
     10.4.3. All radiation badges shall be worn while working in a designated radiation use
     area. The badges shall be put on before beginning work and removed after leaving the
     radiation use area. When not being worn, the badges must be stored on a rack or board of
     some kind in a radiation-free environment along with a control badge. This location is
     normally called a ―control board.‖ The control badge always remains on the control
     board. Badges must never be taken home or stored in any other location such as desk
     drawers or attached to lab coats. Badges should also never be worn when undergoing
     medical radiation procedures such as diagnostic x-ray or dental examinations, nuclear
     medicine evaluations or radiation therapy treatments.
     10.4.4. If a badge is lost or damaged an investigation will be performed by the USAFA
     RSO to estimate the exposure actually received during that monitoring period. The
     individual to whom the badge was issued shall be required to sign a statement explaining
     the circumstances of the loss or damage.
     10.4.5. In addition to routinely issued radiation monitoring badges, some activities of a
     high risk of a large exposure may also require the use of self reading pocket dosimeters or
     similar device.
     10.4.6. If anyone suspects that a dosimeter has been exposed either deliberately or
     unintentionally to radiation irrespective of whether it was being worn at the time or not,
     the supervisor and the USAFA RSO shall be notified immediately. The dosimeter shall
     be collected and delivered to USAFSAM for processing.
     10.4.7. In the event that the USAFA RSO is notified by USAFSAM that an overexposure
     may have occurred, the USAFA RSO shall immediately contact the Unit Commander and
     request the individual be removed from all duties involving potential radiation exposure
     until an investigation is completed. The USAFA RSO shall investigate suspected
     overexposures and provide a written report within seven days through the MAJCOM
     Bioenvironmental Engineer to USAFSAM and AFMOA/SG3PB. Similar procedures
     shall be followed if the USAFA RSO is notified by an individual, or suspects, that an
     overexposure may have occurred.
  10.5. Investigative Levels. In addition to federally imposed dose limits, the NRC has also
  recommended the adoption of investigation levels for radiation workers. These levels are not
 24                                                        USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


   legal limits. They are values arbitrarily set at a percentage of the federally mandated limits to
   assist radiation safety program monitors to comply with the ALARA concept by anticipating
   potential difficulties and initiating corrective actions. USAFA investigative levels are listed
   in Table 4. The investigative level for areas not listed in Table 4 will be 10% of their dose
   limit. Investigations may also take place for exposures below these levels if trend analysis
   shows a significant exposure increase over baseline levels.
11. As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA).
   11.1. ALARA. The ALARA concept was developed in response to scientific evidence
   which suggests that no level of radiation exposure is entirely risk-free. It is a policy which
   states that although there are acceptable, conservative levels of radiation exposure specified
   by federal regulations which offer a low risk of adverse health effects compared to the other
   hazards of life and occupation, it is prudent to make every effort to reduce exposures to the
   lowest levels reasonably achievable. Individual and cumulative radiation exposures must be
   maintained as close to zero as possible given the type of activities involved, the state of
   technology, the risk to the individuals, and the benefit to society from the activity being
   accomplished. The guidance contained in this instruction provides the basis for conducting
   an effective ALARA program.

Table 4. Investigative Levels.
       LOCATION                DOSE TYPE             ACTION LEVEL             MONITORING
                                                         (REM)                  PERIOD
  Radiology                 Eye                           0.375                 Quarterly
  Area B                    Head                          0.125
  10 % of dose limit        Extremity                     1.250
                            Shallow – Skin                1.250
                            Deep - B/G/X-Ray              1.250
                            Deep – Neutron                0.000
                            Total Effective               0.125
  Mammography               Eye                             0.188                 Quarterly
  Area C                    Head                            0.063
  5 % of dose limit         Extremity                       0.630
                            Shallow – Skin                  0.630
                            Deep - B/G/X-Ray                0.630
                            Deep – Neutron                  0.000
                            Total Effective                 0.063
  Nuclear Medicine          Eye                             0.375                 Quarterly
  Area D                    Head                            0.125
  10 % of dose limit        Extremity                       1.250
                            Shallow – Skin                  1.250
                            Deep - B/G/X-Ray                1.250
                            Deep – Neutron                  0.000
                            Total Effective                 0.125
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                25


      LOCATION              DOSE TYPE            ACTION LEVEL             MONITORING
                                                     (REM)                  PERIOD
 Cat Scan                 Eye                         0.188                 Quarterly
 Area G                   Head                        0.063
 5 % of dose limit        Extremity                   0.630
                          Shallow – Skin              0.630
                          Deep - B/G/X-Ray            0.630
                          Deep - Neutron              0.000
                          Total Effective             0.063
  11.2. ALARA Commitment. The radiation safety program at this installation is managed
  by the USAFA RSO and reviewed by the USAFA RSC for the Installation Commander.
  USAFA is committed to the concept of ALARA. The ALARA commitment is summarized
  below:
      11.2.1. Management (10 ABW/CC).
         11.2.1.1. The management of USAFA is committed to the ALARA program for
         maintaining individual and collective radiation doses ALARA. According to this
         commitment, USAFA has developed an administrative organization and written
         policies, procedures and instructions to promote the ALARA concept. The
         organization consists of the USAFA RSC and USAFA RSO.
         11.2.1.2. The management of USAFA shall authorize modifications to operating and
         maintenance procedures and to equipment and facilities if they shall reduce exposures
         unless the cost is considered unjustified.
      11.2.2. USAFA RSC.
         11.2.2.1. The USAFA RSC shall delegate authority to the USAFA RSO and Permit
         RSOs for enforcement of the ALARA program and shall support the RSOs when it is
         necessary to assert authority. If the USAFA RSC overrules a RSO, the facts and
         basis for such action shall be documented in the minutes of the USAFA RSC
         meeting.
         11.2.2.2. The USAFA RSC may require users to develop new procedures to
         implement the ALARA concept and shall review occupational radiation exposure
         records to ensure compliance with ALARA.
      11.2.3. USAFA RSO.
         11.2.3.1. The USAFA RSO shall thoroughly review the qualifications of each
         applicant for a USAFA radioactive material/radiation-producing device permit to
         ensure that the applicant shall be able to respond appropriately to maintain exposures
         ALARA.
         11.2.3.2. The USAFA RSO shall perform annual reviews of the radiation safety
         program and present the findings to the USAFA RSC.
         11.2.3.3. The USAFA RSO shall perform a quarterly review of radiation exposure
         records and records of radiation surveys and present the results to the USAFA RSC
         each quarter.
 26                                                        USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


          11.2.3.4. The USAFA RSO shall ensure users, workers, and ancillary personnel are
          provided briefings describing the ALARA program at least annually.
          11.2.3.5. The USAFA and Permit RSOs shall encourage users to submit suggestions
          for improving health physics practices and increasing the effectiveness of the
          ALARA program and shall evaluate them with the goal of implementing as many of
          them as are considered acceptable and reasonable.
          11.2.3.6. The USAFA RSO shall investigate all deviations from ALARA and direct
          changes when appropriate.
      11.2.4. Users.
          11.2.4.1. Users shall provide the USAFA RSO with information concerning newly
          proposed uses of radioactive material or radiation-producing devices with sufficient
          lead time to adequately evaluate the proposal. Alternate approaches shall be
          considered in the interest of ALARA.
          11.2.4.2. Users shall explain the ALARA concept to individuals supervised by them,
          ensure that they understand the concept and are adequately trained for the task
          required and document the training.
      11.2.5. Radiation Workers.
          11.2.5.1. Workers shall be instructed annually in the ALARA concept and its
          applicability to work practices and conditions.
          11.2.5.2. Workers shall be advised of available recourses if they feel that the
          ALARA concept is not being implemented.
12. Training.
   12.1. Personnel requiring training in radiation safety commensurate with their duties may
   include:
      12.1.1. Users.
      12.1.2. Supervisors.
      12.1.3. Radiation monitors.
      12.1.4. Permit RSOs.
      12.1.5. Emergency response teams.
      12.1.6. Special inspection groups.
      12.1.7. Ancillary personnel (such as housekeeping) who may perform duties in areas
      where radioactive material or radiation-producing devices are used.
   12.2. Training shall be provided to individuals, who in the course of their duties, are likely to
   receive greater than 100 mrem in a year:
      12.2.1. Before the individual is permitted to assume duties with or near radiation sources.
      12.2.2. Annually during a refresher training course.
      12.2.3. When there is a significant change in duties or radiation safety requirements.
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                   27


   12.3. Training shall be provided by:
      12.3.1. The USAFA or Permit RSOs, according to the above schedule.
      12.3.2. The Public Health Flight, Occupational Health (10 AMDS/SGPM) during
      occupational safety briefings to workers. The contents of these briefings as they relate to
      radiation safety shall be approved by the USAFA RSO.
   12.4. Training sessions should include but are not limited to the following:
      12.4.1. Applicable regulations and permit conditions.
      12.4.2. Areas where radiation sources are used or stored.
      12.4.3. Potential hazards and health risks from the radiation sources.
      12.4.4. Appropriate radiation safety procedures.
      12.4.5. Work rules pertaining to radiation sources.
      12.4.6. Employee obligation to report unsafe conditions or practices.
      12.4.7. Initial response procedures to radiation emergencies.
      12.4.8. Employee right to be informed of occupational radiation exposure results.
      12.4.9. Location where pertinent regulations and documents are available for review.
      12.4.10. Workplace specific practices and procedures to ensure personnel exposures are
      maintained ALARA.
   12.5. All radiation safety training shall be documented and copies maintained by USAFA
   RSO or Permit RSO, as appropriate for a period of 5 years. When such training is required
   under this section, workplace supervisors shall ensure it is documented on each individual’s
   AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
13. Designation of Areas and Posting Requirements.
   13.1. ―Restricted area‖ means any area, access to which is limited for the purpose of
   protecting of individuals against undue risks from exposure to radiation and radioactive
   material. Restricted areas shall be delineated and have access control.
   13.2. ―Radiation area‖ means an area, accessible to individuals, in which radiation levels
   could result in an individual receiving a dose equivalent in excess of 0.005 rem in 1 hour at
   30 centimeters from the radiation source or from any surface that the radiation penetrates.
   Radiation areas shall be posted with a sign that includes a magenta or black radiation symbol
   on a yellow background and the words ―Caution, Radiation Area‖, with the exception of
   medical x-ray facilities and rooms otherwise excepted IAW 10 CFR 20.1903.
   13.3. ―High radiation area‖ means an area, accessible to individuals, in which radiation
   levels could result in an individual receiving a dose equivalent in excess of 0.1 rem in 1 hour
   at 30 centimeters from the radiation source or from any surface that the radiation penetrates.
   High radiation areas shall be posted with a sign that includes a magenta or black radiation
   symbol on a yellow background and the words ―Caution, High Radiation Area‖, with the
   exception of medical x-ray facilities, and rooms otherwise excepted IAW 10 CFR 20.1903.
 28                                                       USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


   13.4. ―Very high radiation area‖ means an area, accessible to individuals, in which radiation
   levels could result in an individual receiving an absorbed dose in excess of 5 Gy (500 rads) in
   1 hour at 1 meter from a radiation source, shall be designated a very high radiation area. All
   such areas shall be posted with a sign that includes a magenta or black radiation symbol on a
   yellow background and the words ―Grave Danger, Very High Radiation Area‖, with the
   exception of medical therapy facilities, and facilities otherwise excepted IAW
   10CFR20.1903.
   13.5. The limits in the above definitions are specified in terms of ―rem in one hour‖ not ―rem
   per hour (rem/hr).‖ The difference between these two expressions is significant. If the limit
   was expressed as 0.005 rem/hr, then any measurement with a survey meter above 0.005
   rem/hr would classify the location as a radiation area. However, when expressed as 0.005
   rem in 1 hour, a measurement of 0.01 rem/hr could still be classified as a non-radiation area
   if the occupancy were limited to no more than 30 minutes each hour or if the radiation field
   were present for no more than 30 minutes each hour. Such might be the case for an x-ray
   operation. Therefore, the classification of a radiation area must also consider the occupancy
   of the area and the duration of the radiation exposure.
   13.6. Permitted radioactive materials. Except as otherwise specified, copies of this
   instruction, 10 CFR Part 19 and Part 20, applicable AF permit, permit conditions, documents
   referenced in the permit and NRC Form 3, Notice to Employees, shall be posted in at least
   one conspicuous location within each work area where activities involving the use of
   radioactive material are conducted.
      13.6.1. Alternative Posting. If posting of a document specified above is not practical,
      with the exception of NRC Form 3, a notice may be posted which describes the document
      and states where it may be reviewed. Copies of the references listed in this instruction
      and other pertinent documents concerning the use of radioactive material are maintained
      by the USAFA RSO in building 2355 at 333-4825. The notice shall state that the
      documents are available for review during normal duty hours.
   13.7. Radiation Exposure Posting. The AF Listing 1499 lists each individual’s radiation
   exposure record. This form is provided to supervisors at the end of each monitoring period
   and should also be made available for review. The AF Form 1527-1 lists each individual’s
   annual dose and shall be made available for review by each employee.
14. Emergency Procedures.
   14.1. Emergency Situations. Potential radiation hazards may include:
      14.1.1. Spills of radioactive material. Spills pose a hazard because of the potential for:
      contamination of the environment; contamination of the skin of personnel; ingestion or
      inhalation of radioactive material; production of a high radiation field which may result
      in a radiation dose exceeding permissible limits even if the individual does not become
      externally contaminated.
      14.1.2. Production of a radiation field by an x-ray machine, irradiator, accelerator or
      radioactive material (even if the material is completely contained). An x-ray machine,
      radioisotope irradiator, or accelerator may be emitting radiation when it is supposed to be
      off or it may be emitting radiation into an area where it is not expected.
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                  29


  14.2. Generic Emergency Response Procedures.
     14.2.1. The primary concern is first, the protection of individuals in the vicinity
     including emergency response personnel and second, the protection of the environment.
     Lifesaving activities always take priority over other considerations. Relatively large
     personnel exposures may be permitted for lifesaving procedures. Essential first aid
     always takes precedence over decontamination.
     14.2.2. Radioactive Material Spills. The material must be confined (preferably
     shielded) to prevent further contamination and individuals/environment may require
     decontamination.
        14.2.2.1. Prepare for a spill by having a ―spill kit‖ readily available complete with all
        of the items required to respond.
        14.2.2.2. Advise all personnel not directly involved with the initial spill incident or
        the subsequent cleanup to evacuate the area. Anyone suspected of being
        contaminated during the incident or cleanup should not leave the area until monitored
        and decontaminated if necessary.
        14.2.2.3. One individual should assume responsibility for immediate actions. The
        individual who starts giving commands should continue to do so until a more
        qualified and knowledgeable individual arrives on scene.
        14.2.2.4. Stop the spill if possible. The benefit of performing this activity must be
        balanced by the risk to the individual performing it.
        14.2.2.5. Warn individuals not involved in the spill to evacuate the area. Designate
        someone to call for assistance. Call the USAFA RSO and others, such as the
        supervisor, radiation monitor, or emergency response teams (e.g., fire department or
        ambulances) as required. The USAFA RSO shall ensure that all notifications
        required by AFI 40-201 and 10 CFR 20.2201 and 20.2202, are accomplished.
        14.2.2.6. Determine extent of the spill. If liquid or solid, try to mark boundaries. If
        gas, mark which areas are affected.
        14.2.2.7. Secure non-filtered exhaust and any other pathways outside the area (e.g.,
        air vents, windows, drains, etc.).
        14.2.2.8. Consider the need for internal evaluation (i.e., bioassay sampling such as
        urine, feces, nasal swabs, etc.). Bioassay samples are best collected immediately
        (provided external contamination of the sample is not a problem) and again after 24
        hours. The USAFA RSO shall provide guidance on follow-up sampling intervals.
        14.2.2.9. For fires, water should be used sparingly since it may tend to spread
        contamination.
        14.2.2.10. Radioactive material not involved in the incident should not be moved.
        Transporting sources to an alternate storage location during an incident to safeguard
        them is not recommended.
        14.2.2.11. After the cleanup has been completed, a report of the incident shall be
        prepared as directed by the USAFA RSO and a copy submitted to the USAFA RSC.
 30                                                       USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


      14.2.3. Radiation Fields.
          14.2.3.1. For radiation fields, individuals must be removed from the radiation field or
          the radiation source must be shut down (e.g., turning off the x-ray machine or
          shielding the irradiator source).
          14.2.3.2. One individual should assume responsibility for immediate actions.
          14.2.3.3. Warn others of the problem and send for assistance from the USAFA RSO
          and others.
          14.2.3.4. Isolate the area by closing doors or setting up improvised barriers to prevent
          entry. Be certain that no one is in the area before securing it.
          14.2.3.5. After the situation has been corrected, a report of the incident shall be
          prepared as directed by the USAFA RSO.
15. Reporting Requirements.
   15.1. Mishaps, Incidents, and Accidents. Any abnormal occurrence involving radioactive
   material or radiation-producing device shall be reported by the using organization to the
   USAFA RSO immediately after the abnormal occurrence becomes known. Based on the
   severity of the occurrence, as specified in AFI 40-201, the USAFA RSO shall notify the
   following:
      15.1.1. 10 ABW/CC, HQ USAFA/JA, HQ USAFA/PA, HQ USAFA/SE.
      15.1.2. AFMOA/SGP3R.
      15.1.3. HQ USAF/SGOE.
      15.1.4. 10 MDG/CC.
      15.1.5. Other interested organizations with jurisdiction such as US Environmental
      Protection Agency, Food and Drug Administration or State of Colorado.
   15.2. Notice of Violation or Hazard.
      15.2.1. Any worker or representative of workers who believes that a violation of NRC or
      AF instructions or permit conditions has occurred, or that any defect in facilities or
      equipment exists which may pose a hazard to personnel or the environment shall report
      such conditions to:
          15.2.1.1. The immediate supervisor, Permit RSO, USAFA RSO, branch or division
          chief, or department chairperson.
          15.2.1.2. The USAFA RSO at 333-4825. In absence of the USAFA RSO, reports
          may be made to the Chairperson of the USAFA RSC.
      15.2.2. Initial reports may be submitted verbally; however, a written report shall be
      submitted within five workdays for proper documentation (AF Form 457, USAF Hazard
      Report, may be used). The willful failure to report such violations or hazards to
      personnel in accordance with procedures provided in this section may be considered a
      dereliction of duty and could result in disciplinary action.
      15.2.3. Requests for inspection of violations or defects involving radioactive material
      possessed under authority of an NRC license or AF radioactive material permit may be
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                31


      made to the Installation IG or directly, in writing, to the AF RIC, AF IG, or the NRC
      Office of Inspection and Enforcement, Region IV, according to l0 CFR 19.16(a). In
      almost all cases, the AF RIC should be notified first.
16. Radon.
   16.1. Radon Limits. USEPA standards for exposure to radon are applicable to residential
   and non-residential structures on USAFA. Newly constructed or acquired structures shall be
   assessed by the USAFA RSO for exposure to radon progeny, with the exception of hangars,
   maintenance bays, dedicated storage facilities, structures occupied less than four hours per
   day, temporary facilities and elevated structures with unobstructed air flow underneath.
   Tests shall be performed not earlier than one year after construction using long-term
   monitors. Structures identified with radon concentrations greater than 4.0 picocuries/liter
   shall be remediated by CE. Structures that have been mitigated shall be reassessed by the
   USAFA RSO within six months.

Table 5. DELETED.
17. DELETED.




                                           *TIMOTHY D. BALLARD, Col, USAF, MC, CFS
                                           Commander, 10th Medical Group
 32                                                      USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 40-201, Managing Radioactive Materials in the US Air Force
AFI 48-148, Ionizing Radiation Protection
AFI 84-103, The U.S. Air Force Heritage Program
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFMAN 48-125, Personnel Ionizing Radiation Dosimetry
AFPD 40-2, Radioactive Materials (Non-Nuclear Weapons)
DoDI 6055.8, Occupational Radiation Protection Program
10 CFR 19 - Notices, Instructions and Reports to Workers: Inspection and Investigations
10 CFR 20, Standards for Protection Against Radiation
29 CFR 19190, Occupational Safety and Health Standards
Executive Order 12196, Occupational safety and health programs for Federal employees
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 457, USAF Hazard Report
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1527-1, Annual Dose Report
AF Listing 1499, Occupational Radiation Exposure Report
NRC Form 3, Notice to Employees
NRC Form 241, Report of Proposed Activities in Non-Agreement States, Areas of Federal
Jurisdiction, or Offshore Waters

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
ALARA—As Low as Reasonably Achievable
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DIS—Decay In Storage
DOT—Department of Transportation
EPD—Electronic Personnel Dosimeters
ESOHC—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health Council
USAFAI40-201 20 OCTOBER 2009                                                                    33


IG—Inspector General
MDG—Medical Group
NRC—Nuclear Regulatory Commission
NSN—National Stock Number
RIC—Radioisotope Committee
RSC—Radiation Safety Council
RSO—Radiation Safety Officer
TLD—Thermoluminescent Dosimeter
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFA/DFP—Department of Physics

Terms
Radioactive Material—includes any item that emits radiation without external power.
Examples are byproduct, source and special nuclear material as defined in the Code of Federal
Regulations (CFR), Title 10, Parts 30, 40 and 70. Products distributed as exempt by a
manufacturer licensed to distribute to exempt persons do not require a permit, if used for their
intended purpose. Any unusual activities involving these sources, such as attempting to remove
the radioactive material from the item or accumulating large quantities of these items for storage
may require a permit. Although there are no administrative controls over these items, they may
require controlled disposal. If there is any doubt as to the requirement for a permit or the proper
method of disposal, contact the USAFA RSO for guidance.
Radiation Producing Device—is any piece of equipment that emits ionizing radiation,
regardless of intent, when energized by an external power source. Examples include medical and
industrial x-ray machines, x-ray diffraction and fluorescence units, scanning and transmission
electron microscopes and particle accelerators. In general, any device that accelerates electrons
or other atomic particles with a potential difference of 10,000 volts or greater and produces x-
radiation, either intentionally or unintentionally, may require a USAFA radiation-producing
device permit. Some exceptions are television monitors, cathode ray tubes and video display
terminals which are manufactured under the strict requirements of 21 CFR 1020.10. If there is
any doubt as to the requirement for a permit, contact the USAFA RSO for guidance.
Radiation Worker—An individual who may be occupationally exposed to measurable radiation
in the course of their duties or designated by the IRSO. This includes flight crews that routinely
fly average flight profiles that are equal to or greater than 40,000 ft. This does not include
workers who only work with Generally Licensed Devices such as explosives detection
equipment and other instruments or articles.
Phone Numbers—Bioenvironmental Engineering: 333-4825
USAFA Command Post: 333—2633
USAFA RSO: 333—4825
