BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                     INSTRUCTION 31-104
EUROPE
                                                                         11 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                      Security

                                                             ENHANCED LARGE VEHICLE
                                                               INSPECTION OPERATIONS




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: USAFE/A7SOI                                                     Certified by: USAFE/A7S
                                                                          (Col Mark H. Eichin)
Supersedes:   USAFEI31-204,                                                          Pages: 14
              19 September 2006


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense. It
references policies and procedures prescribed in Department of Defense Directive (DoDD)
2000.12, DoD Antiterrorism (AT)Program, Department of Defense Instruction (DoDI) 2000.14,
DoD Combating Terrorism Program Procedures, DoDI 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism Standards,
DoD O-2000.12-H, DoD Antiterrorism Handbook; Air Force Instruction (AFI) 10-245,
Antiterrorism (AT), DoD Technical Support Working Group (TSWG) Vehicle Inspection
Checklist, Force Protection Battle Lab Vehicle Bomb Mitigation Guide. It establishes policy and
guidance for the implementation and operation of the installation Enhanced Large Vehicle
Inspection Sites (ELVIS). This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) and
U.S. Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information. The use of the name or mark of any specific
manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply
endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                        USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include guidance regarding United States and Host Nation Postal Drivers and Diplomatic Cargo
Escorts, a revised Enhanced Large Vehicle Inspection Checklist, and the inclusion of a Vehicle
Threat Analysis Matrix.
1. Introduction. The bombings of the U.S. Air Force housing complex in Dhahran, Saudi
Arabia, and other similar incidents, demonstrated that terrorist use of large vehicle improvised
explosive devices (IEDs) to inflict catastrophic damages and potential for mass casualties are,
and will continue to be, a threat to national security. The combination of destructive capability,
access to large vehicles, and ease of obtaining materials for making lethal vehicle bombs is an
incentive for terrorists. Additionally, terrorism characteristics have dramatically changed over
the past decade. The bombings of the U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania and the suicide
bombings of the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on 11 September 2001 demonstrate a
trend for sensational destructive impact and mass casualties. Terrorists are imaginative; use of
large vehicles, to include emergency response vehicles, to deliver a vehicle bomb is a real threat.
The atrocities of 11 September 2001 changed the security environment on an international scale
forever. As such, strict, long-term solutions must be developed and implemented to mitigate the
threat of large vehicle IEDs.
2. Implementation. Installations will develop and implement local procedures and
requirements for enhanced large vehicle inspection sites (ELVIS) utilizing this instruction as the
baseline.
3. Systems Approach. The systems approach, with respect to detecting the explosive threat,
employs traditional vehicle search techniques and explosive detection technology into an overall
strategy to detect vehicle explosives. System design relies upon successively layering these
resources and tailoring these technologies to address site-specific threats, available resources,
and the particular operating environment in order to progressively detect and isolate explosive
threats for immediate cordon and evacuation, followed by appropriate response. The concept
incorporates isolation of the ELVIS by exploiting distance and physical revetment methods in an
effort to mitigate the effects of blast and fragmentation. The concept also uses available
specialists to train inspection personnel. These specialists include but are not limited to the
following:
     3.1. Vehicle Maintenance. Vehicle maintenance personnel are invaluable in determining
     areas in the engine compartment, undercarriage, tires, and other areas that can conceal an
     explosive device.
     3.2. Explosive Ordnance Disposal. Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) personnel are
     experts in training personnel on explosive recognition and immediate action requirements
     should an explosive be detected.
     3.3. Hazardous Material (HAZMAT). Hazardous material personnel are experts in
     training HAZMAT procedures and operations should this type of material be detected.
4. Enhanced Large Vehicle Inspection Sites. Each installation will establish an ELVIS for all
commercial and contractor delivery vehicles entering the installation. Care should be taken
when selecting site location and determining access to the ELVIS.
USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                   3


  4.1. ELVIS Location. Location of the ELVIS is critical. Ideally, the ELVIS should be
  established in a remote location at least 2000 feet from any inhabited areas or areas
  containing Protection Level 1-3 resources. Separate deceleration/access lanes into the
  ELVIS with enough room for vehicles to safely wait for inspection should be provided.
     4.1.1. Fragmentation and Blast Zone Hazards. Fragmentation and blast zones are key
     elements to consider when orientating the ELVIS, but may be mitigated through the
     establishment and utilization of an effective barrier plan. If required based on your site
     location, include the barrier plan in your installation’s Integrated Defense Plan (IDP).
     Examples of fragmentation and blast zone hazard design features can be found in
     references such as the Force Protection Battlelab Vehicle Bomb Mitigation Guide.
         4.1.1.1. Fragmentation zone hazards are in front of and behind the vehicle.
         Fragmentation zone hazards can generally be mitigated effectively with the placement
         of earth based barriers (berms, HESCO bastion barriers, sandbags) at the front of and
         rear of the vehicle.
         4.1.1.2. Blast revetments should be placed to the left and right of the inspection area
         as well (see Attachment 3 for diagram). Blast zone hazards extend up to several
         thousand feet from both sides of the vehicle depending on the size and make-up of the
         explosive device. Blast zone hazards can generally be mitigated through the use and
         combination of concrete and earth barriers. Dense vegetation can also help mitigate
         the primary blast hazard.
  4.2. ELVIS Inspection Areas. Ideally, each ELVIS should include the three areas listed
  below (Figure A3.1); however, manpower, location, size, and other limiting factors unique
  to each installation must be considered. Although each ELVIS may incorporate additional
  areas to their existing arrangement, such as an entry control point, as a minimum, each
  ELVIS must include:
     4.2.1. Pre-Inspection Area. A pre-inspection area is used to gather information about the
     driver and check documentation that may indicate suspicious activity or a threat situation.
     Required documentation may vary but normally consists of the vehicle registration,
     driver’s license, logbook, manifest, and shipping papers or bill of lading. During the
     driver interview, the inspector must observe the individual’s behavior while observing the
     vehicle for physical abnormalities. Typical questions include: What is your citizenship?;
     where do you live?; where are you going?; what is the name/position of the person you
     are to see?; what is your cargo?; where did you come from?; who is your employer?; do
     you own the vehicle? It should not be assumed that the average local national truck
     driver possesses the necessary English language skills to answer these questions without
     the aid of an interpreter. Therefore, an interpreter or language cards should be utilized, if
     necessary, during the driver interview. See Sample USAFE Form 204, Enhanced
     Large Vehicle Inspection Checklist, for driver interview responses that may raise
     suspicion.
     4.2.2. Inspection Area. The inspection area is the location where the vehicle inspection
     is accomplished. This area ideally is covered to offer protection from the elements for
     the inspectors and the system monitoring equipment. Each inspection area should have
     large-print signs posted in English and the host nation language that spell out the
 4                                                        USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013


        procedures. Minimum manning for each inspection point within the inspection area is
        outlined below.
            4.2.2.1. One armed Security Forces member providing “armed over-watch”. The
            armed over-watch is responsible for providing a show of force and final denial to the
            installation entry control point. Standard Use of Force rules apply.
            4.2.2.2. Two Security Forces members (or properly trained augmentation personnel)
            serving as vehicle inspectors.
            4.2.2.3. One Security Forces member (or properly trained augmentation individual)
            per piece of equipment serving as the Explosive Detection Equipment (EDE)
            operator. The armed over-watch and two vehicle inspectors will not operate the EDE.
            4.2.2.4. One Explosives Detector Dog (EDD) team (as required). If EDE is not
            available, an EDD team is required.
            4.2.2.5. One interpreter (if available).
        4.2.3. Post-Inspection Area. The post-inspection area is used for further verification of
        required documentation and to sign visitors onto the installation. Utilize AF Form 1109,
        Visitor Register Log, or other locally developed electronic database that includes, at a
        minimum, the same information contained in AF Form 1109.
5. ELVIS Requirements:
     5.1. Requirements. IAW AFI 10-245, AF Baseline FPCON posture directs inspection of all
     large commercial vehicles in FPCON Normal. Commercial vehicles are defined as those that
     are larger than an extended cab pick-up truck (6-passenger) or passenger van, to include but
     not limited to tractor/trailer (box and flat-bed containing cargo), tanker trucks, box trucks,
     tour buses, garbage/recycled waste trucks, concrete trucks/mixers, dump trucks, cranes,
     recreational vehicles, petroleum tankers, postal/mail trucks and all soft-sided delivery
     vehicles. All aforementioned vehicles and Government Owned Vehicles (GOVs) that fit the
     “commercial vehicle” definition, except those listed in paragraphs 5.1.1, through 5.1.4, will
     receive complete inspections prior to entry.
        5.1.1. School Buses. School buses will not process through the ELVIS. Installations
        will establish local security and control procedures to safely and securely expedite school
        bus entry onto the installation. Coordinate school bus entry procedures through the
        installation force protection working group and the Department of Defense Dependents
        School (DoDDS) liaison and include these procedures in the DoDDS Force Protection
        Plan.
        5.1.2. Privately Owned Vehicles (POV). Installations will inspect POVs in accordance
        with local directives and procedures established in force protection conditions and
        random antiterrorism measures. Ideally, POV inspections will be conducted in
        established areas at installation entry control points; however, POV inspections may be
        conducted at the ELVIS as dictated by mission requirements and threat.
        5.1.3. Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES) and Defense Commissary
        Agency (DeCA) vehicles. Most AAFES and DeCA delivery vehicles undergo strict
        inventory and sealing procedures prior to departure from their central distribution points
        to protect merchandise from fraud and theft. Dependent upon current threat and
USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                  5


       FPCONs, these vehicles may be candidates for an expedited search at the ELVIS by
       verifying seal numbers against cargo manifests or bills of lading. If expedited search
       procedures are established, installation commanders must designate such procedures in
       writing however, as a minimum, inspection must include areas of the driver/passenger
       compartment(s), engine compartment, undercarriage, and unsealed cargo carrying areas.
       The emphasis is to deny hiding areas and dead spaces capable of concealing explosives or
       individual(s) attempting unauthorized entry. Additionally, soft-sided delivery vehicles
       are not to be considered secure and must be searched prior to entry.
       5.1.4. United States (US) and Host Nation Postal Drivers and Diplomatic Cargo Escorts.
       Delivery vehicles containing US mail undergo strict inventory and sealing/manifesting
       procedures prior to departing guarded/secured military installations and/or international
       commercial airports. Host Nation Postal Drivers and Diplomatic Cargo Escorts, due to
       the nature of their cargo, may be required to remain in sight of their delivery vehicles.
       Based on this requirement, the vehicle may be inspected in the presence of the
       driver/escort. Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, Article 27 and 36, 24 April
       1964, exempts personal baggage of diplomatic agents and official diplomatic
       correspondence from inspection. Additionally, dependent upon current threat and
       FPCONs, these vehicles may be candidates for an expedited inspection at the ELVIS by
       verifying seal numbers against cargo manifests or bills of lading.
   5.2. Contractor and Commercial Vendor Entry Procedures:
       5.2.1. Cleared Contractors and Commercial Vendors.                Cleared Contractors and
       Commercial Vendors with proper background checks and authorized passes should be
       permitted unescorted entry to the installation after successful completion of a vehicle
       inspection. Installation commanders and higher headquarters are authorized to impose
       stricter controls, i.e., requiring escorts from requesting agency, if the threat dictates.
       5.2.2. Un-cleared Contractors and Commercial Vendors. Un-cleared Contractors and
       Commercial Vendors without proper background checks and authorized passes will be
       escorted onto the installation after successful completion of the vehicle inspection.
       Escorts will remain with the vehicle at all times while it is on the installation. Escorts
       will either possess or obtain their own communications, e.g., cell phone or land mobile
       radio (LMR), to ensure the capability to immediately contact the Base Defense
       Operations Center, or equivalent agency, in the event of an emergency is maintained.
       Unless otherwise required, escorts for Contractors and Commercial Vendors themselves
       are not necessary. These escorts are for the vehicles. Installations should consider
       maintaining a pool of personnel from appropriate requesting agencies, base details, or a
       combination of both to perform escort duty. Installation commanders are responsible for
       establishing procedures to ensure personnel are available to perform escort duty.
6. ELVIS Procedures. The ELVIS procedures consist of a combination of manual inspection
techniques and explosive detection technology (if available) to optimize detection capability.
   6.1. Manual Inspection Techniques. Manual Inspection Techniques are the “baseline” of
   any vehicle inspection, to include large vehicle inspections, and consist of a visual and
   physical inspection of a vehicle by an individual (security forces member or augmentee) and
   an EDD (as required). The inspection may also incorporate the use of an under vehicle
   mirror or under vehicle “creeper,” if available.
6                                                     USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013


    6.1.1. Vehicle drivers should precede the inspector and open all doors, compartments,
    the hood, and trunk (if applicable). Inspection team members, normally, will not perform
    these tasks.
    6.1.2. All occupants, to include the driver, must exit the vehicle and move to a pre-
    designated location away from the inspection area and remain in this area until the
    vehicle inspection is completed. Note: United States and Host Nation Postal Drivers and
    Diplomatic Cargo Escorts may be required to remain in site of their delivery vehicles.
    See paragraph 5.1.4
    6.1.3. All inspections should be conducted in a systematic and consistent manner, i.e.,
    clockwise or counter-clockwise. Use USAFE Form 204, Enhanced Large Vehicle
    Inspection Checklist to standardize and record large vehicle searches. Note: This is not
    an all-inclusive checklist; installations are encouraged to adapt their local search
    procedures to delivery vehicles more commonly found in their operating location. For
    example, delivery vehicles in one country may not be the same make and/or model in
    another county. Coordination with host nation officials to develop thorough local
    procedures is encouraged.
       6.1.3.1. USAFE Form 204, Enhanced Large Vehicle Inspection Checklist. The
       Enhanced Large Vehicle Inspection Checklist provides manual inspection guidance
       for the internal/external inspection of ALL vehicles and GOVs larger than an
       extended cab pick-up truck (6-passenger) or passenger van, to include but not limited
       to the examples provided within paragraph 5.1 Additionally, the Enhanced Large
       Vehicle Inspection Checklist includes a list of physical and auditory responses that
       may be experienced by the inspector during the driver’s interview. The list of
       responses should be used to assist the inspector in identifying behaviors that may
       raise suspicion.
       6.1.3.2. Vehicle Threat Analysis Matrix. The Vehicle Threat Analysis Matrix
       divides vehicles into three separate search categories based on the potential threat risk
       assumed by the vehicle by meeting/not-meeting specific requirements. For example,
       if a vehicle is not listed on a base-pass or belongs to a moving company, then based
       on the Vehicle Threat Analysis Matrix, the vehicle would be considered a high threat
       risk, thus subject to all inspection items listed (marked with “X”) under the “H”
       column of the Enhanced Large Vehicle Inspection Checklist. See Sample USAFE
       Form 204, Enhanced Large Vehicle Inspection Checklist.
       6.1.3.3. To further enhance the inspection of Low, Medium, or High threat risk
       vehicles, complement manual inspection techniques by incorporating the applicable
       equipment type listed in the Vehicle Threat Analysis Matrix. Note: This is not an all-
       inclusive matrix; installations are encouraged to incorporate available EDE and/or
       techniques for the purpose of enhancing their local search procedures. Coordination
       with host nation officials to develop thorough local procedures is encouraged.
USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                               7


Table 1. Vehicle Threat Analysis Matrix
      High (50%)                Medium (30%)                Low (20%)
       Personnel                   Personnel                Personnel
No Base Pass (Non-vetted)        NATO Vehicles           Base Pass (Vetted)
    Moving Company        TMO/DeCA/FMO (Soft Sided) TMO/DeCA/FMO (Hard Sided)
     DHL/FED Ex                    Fuel Trucks                 GOVs
    Delivery Vehicles     Open Bed Construction Vehicles    Mail Truck
                                                               Ammo
                                                             Concrete
      Equipment                    Equipment                Equipment
     MWD checks                   MWD checks              Seal verification
    Seal verification           Seal verification         External sweep
   Weapons Detection                                      Expedited entry
 Hands on compartment
   Tool box inspection
      6.1.4. Any operation or movement of the vehicle must be performed by the vehicle
      driver. Inspection team members, normally, will not perform these tasks. Additionally,
      all personnel must stand and remain clear of a vehicle in motion and remain alert to all
      other vehicle traffic within and around the area.
   6.2. Explosive Detection Technology. Numerous commercial off-the shelf (COTS) devices
   are available to complement manual inspection techniques. These, as well as emerging
   technologies, help constitute a robust detection capability at the ELVIS. Refer to operator
   manuals for specific equipment operations and employment methods. Prior to purchasing a
   device that generates ionizing radiation, contact the base Radiation Safety Officer (RSO)
   regarding applicable licensing procedures. Units that currently have radiation producing
   devices must comply with requirements of their radioactive material license to maintain
   exposures as low as reasonably achievable. In addition, units must contact System Security
   Section (HQ USAFE/A7SXS), for guidance prior to selection and purchase of any COTS
   explosive detection technology for use in ELVISs.
7. Additional Considerations:
   7.1. ELVIS Hours of Operation and Designated Delivery Hours. Consider establishing
   ELVIS hours of operation and designated delivery hours to complement mission readiness
   and minimize the threat.
   7.2. Off-Site Shipping and Receiving. Where possible and when dictated by the threat,
   consider establishing off-site shipping and receiving procedures. For example, a critical
   facility can have off-site shipping and receiving where all deliveries are made and then
   transshipped to the main facility.
8                                                        USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013


    7.3. Large Vehicle “Truck” Routes. The establishment of large vehicle “truck” routes on
    the installation should be considered to help minimize the threat to inhabited areas or areas
    containing Protection Level 1-3 resources.




                                            MARK H. EICHIN, Col, USAF
                                            Chief, Security Forces
USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                          9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoDD 2000.12, DoD Antiterrorism (AT)Program, 13 December 2007
DoDI 2000.14, DoD Combating Terrorism Program Procedures, 15 June 1994
DoDI 2000.16, DoD Antiterrorism Standards, 2 October 2006
DoD O-2000.12-H, DoD Antiterrorism Handbook, February 2004
DoD Technical support Working Group (TSWG) Vehicle Inspection Checklist, 23 October 2000
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 28 October 2011
AFI 10-245, Antiterrorism (AT), 30 March 2009
AFI 31-101, Integrated Defense (FOUO), 8 October 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Force Protection Battle Lab Vehicle Bomb Mitigation Guide, September 2002
Prescribed Forms
USAFE 204, Enhanced Large Vehicle Inspection Site (Elvis) Checklist
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—-Army and Air Force Exchange Service
COTS—-Commercial Off-The-Shelf
DeCA—-Defense Commissary Agency
DoDDS—-Department of Defense Dependents School
EDD—-Explosives Detector Dog
ELVIS—-Enhanced Large Vehicle Inspection Site
HAZMAT—-Hazardous Material
IED—-Improvised Explosive Device
POV—-Privately Owned Vehicle
USAFE—-United States Air Forces in Europe
 10                                         USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013


                             Attachment 2
      SAMPLE ENHANCED LARGE VEHICLE INSPECTION SITE DIAGRAM

Figure A2.1. Site Diagram.
USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                               11


                                              Attachment 3
        ENHANCED LARGE VEHICLE INSPECTION CHECKLIST (SAMPLE)


ITEM #                                 DESCRIPTION                              H   M   L

GENERAL
   1    Inspect all factory built compartments for hidden items.                X   X   X
    2       Look for new or shiny bolts or screws. Indicates something may be
                                                                                X   X   X
            altered, modified, or moved.
    3       Look for unusual scratches or other signs of tampering.             X   X   X
    4       Check for unusually clean or dirty components in all areas. Be
                                                                                X   X   X
            especially aware of clean or new wiring.
    5       Check for spools or remnants of electrical wire, tape, or similar
                                                                                X   X   X
            items.
    6       Look for new or broken welds. Common technique in hiding items
                                                                                X   X   X
            is to cover them with metal welded to the vehicle.
            Ensure all logos, company insignia and other painted or applied
    7       items appear genuine and professional. Sloppy appearance and        X   X   X
            misspelling may indicate a forgery.
EXTERIOR
   1    Check the headlight and taillight (operational, tampered, fake).        X   X   X
            Inspect the fifth wheel area. Look under the plate where it is
    2                                                                           X   X
            attached to the chassis for sign of modification.
            Check for any compartment in the frame rails. Frame rails are
    3       normally open. Compartments can be installed using welding          X   X
            techniques.
    4       Look for fresh bodyworks.                                           X   X   X
            Look in the area between the front grill and the radiator (space
    5                                                                           X   X
            should be empty).
    6       Feel or look at the back of the bumper for false compartments.      X   X
    7       Look in the storage compartments for anything unusual.              X   X   X
    8       Look at the fenders for anything unusually thick or wide.           X   X
EXTERNAL FUEL TANKS
   1    Conduct a visual inspection (fresh welds, wires, leaks)                 X   X
TIRES
   1        Visually inspect spare tire (wires, size).                          X   X
 12                                                           USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013



 ITEM #                               DESCRIPTION                                 H   M   L

            Look for new tires on the vehicle. One or two new tires should not
      2     be considered suspicious on their own. A complete set of new tires    X   X
            is rare and should be considered suspicious.
      3     Look for unusually clean or dirty lug nuts.                           X   X
INSIDE ENGINE COMPARTMENT
    1    Look for out of place or unusually clean components, devices,            X   X   X
         and/or wiring and electrical tape.
    2    Check the windshield washer container if visible, for modifications.     X   X
      3     Check under larger components for unusual containers.                 X
      4     Inspect the firewall for signs of modification or tampering.          X   X
INSIDE PASSENGER COMPARTMENT
    1    Look for plugged vents on the dash.                                      X
      2     Check under floor mats for modifications/stray wires.                 X   X
      3     Look in the glove box for switches, receivers, and transmitters.      X   X   X
      4     Check all seats for bulges or bumps (tampering/restuffed)             X   X   X
      5     Check doors by opening/closing for stress on hinges/excess weight.    X   X
      6     Inspect packages, containers, travel bags, and devices.               X   X   X
UNDER THE VEHICLE
   1    Be sure all connections are properly made, e.g. gas tank filler tube,     X
        exhaust pipe to manifold, wires etc.
   2    Look for fresh undercoating or paint.                                     X

      3  Look for spare or extra tanks on the vehicle that have no obvious        X
         uses.
INSPECTION OF FUEL DELIVERY VEHICLES
   1     Look at discharge hoses and supporting equipment.                        X   X
         (Rust/Corrosion)
   2     Check the discharge valve for signs of rust, corrosion, or fresh         X   X
         paint.
STRAIGHT BOX TRAILER/STEP VAN/REFRIGERATION VEHICLE
         Look at the interior walls for evidence of modification. The walls
   1     of the trailer are typically constructed using plywood panels held       X   X
         together by rivets and, or screws. Look for possible false walls.
   2     Look for hinges or signs of tampering at all roof, side wall, or floor   X
         junctions.
   3     Look for uniformity of cargo (unbalanced load).                          X   X   X

      4     Carefully inspect the top surface of cargo for any indentations or    X   X   X
            footprints, or any signs that someone walked on top of the cargo to
USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                                        13



 ITEM #                                     DESCRIPTION                                        H       M         L

        insert a device.
   5    Look at shipping labels on packages. Shipper’s name should be                          X        X        X
        clearly identified on cargo shipments.
   6    If refrigeration trailer is loaded, check the temperature inside the                   X        X        X
        trailer (visual indicator).
   7    Look for the inspection ports in the floor of the trailer in the front                 X        X        X
        and rear corners (total of four).
GARBAGE TRUCKS
   1    Have the driver operate the crusher.                                                   X        X        X
CONCRETE MIXERS
       When the truck enters the installation, it should be loaded.
   1   Therefore, the drum should be turning in most, but not all, cases. If                   X        X        X
       it is not loaded, or if drum is not turning, have the driver operate the
       drum.

                                 DRIVER INTERVIEW GUIDELINES

                                        PHYSICAL MANIFESTATIONS
Turning red             Turning pale         Obvious shaking Refuse eye contact                Darting of eyes
Excessive blinking      Evasive eyes,           Frowning                Biting or chewing      Sweating profusely
                        looking at floor                                lips
Fidgeting/nervous       Scratching              Hiding hands            Folding arms across    Exaggerated
hands                   repeatedly                                      chest                  movements
Moving rapidly or       Appearing restless      Restless shifting of    Placing hands inside   Sitting on edge of
tensely                                         weight                  groin area             seat - flight



                                      AUDITORY MANIFESTATIONS
Inability to answer     Reluctance to      Answer question Continually asks to                 Shaky voice
                        answer             with a question clarify question
Deep sighs              Repeatedly clears       Grinds teeth            Yawning                Dry mouth
                        throat
Hesitancy of speech     Repeats your            Stuttering              Voice cracking         Responds with
                        questions                                                              unrelated info
Influence questioner with words of qualification; “honestly” “truthfully” “believe me” “To tell the truth” “To be
perfectly frank” “May God strike me dead” “I wouldn’t lie to you”
14                                                         USAFEI31-104 11 FEBRUARY 2013




                            VEHICLE THREAT ANALYSIS MATRIX

      High (50%)                      Medium (30%)                      Low (20%)
       Personnel                         Personnel                      Personnel
No Base Pass (Non-vetted)             NATO Vehicles                  Base Pass (Vetted)
   Moving Company              TMO/DeCA/FMO (Soft Sided)         TMO/DeCA/FMO (Hard Sided)
     DHL/FED Ex                         Fuel Trucks                        GOVs
    Delivery Vehicles          Open Bed Construction Vehicles           Mail Truck
                                                                           Ammo
                                                                         Concrete
     Equipment                          Equipment                       Equipment
    MWD checks                         MWD checks                     Seal verification
   Seal verification                  Seal verification               External sweep
  Weapons Detection                                                   Expedited entry
 Hands on compartment
  Tool box inspection
