BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                     UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                                             INSTRUCTION 10-501
(USAFE)                                                                                                              19 SEPTEMBER 2006

                                                                                                                                        Operations

                                                                                                                PROJECT TASK FORCE




                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:              Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                            www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/A8ZB                                                                                       Certified by: HQ USAFE/A8Z
                                                                                                                 (Col Bradley A. Seipel)
Supersedes USAFEI 10-501, 25 October 2001                                                                                     Pages: 22

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-5, Basing, 26 Nov 1993. It describes
the United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) management structure used to develop and implement
projects in response to significant changes in scheduled force structure, weapons, systems, personnel,
facilities, or materiel within the command. This instruction prescribes procedures and responsibilities for:
creating a Project Task Force (PROTAF), developing Programming Plans (PPlans) and supporting plans,
conducting PROTAF conferences and producing summary reports, and executing PROTAF actions. It
applies to HQ USAFE staff agencies, geographically separated units (GSU), other units assigned to
USAFE, and non-USAFE units who serve as offices of primary responsibility (OPR) for USAFE Project
Task Force (PROTAF) actions. It does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National
Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN
33-363), Management of Records, 31 Aug 1994 and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Changes within the HQ
USAFE organizational structure and changes to the order of various paragraphs from the previous version
of this instruction require this revision.

Section A—Project Initiation, Development and Advocacy                                                                                           3
      1.      Initiation. ....................................................................................................................   3
      2.      Staff Advocate. ..........................................................................................................         3
      3.      Corporate Board. ........................................................................................................          3
2                                                                                  USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006


     4.     Project Package. .........................................................................................................     3

Section B—Project Execution Process                                                                                                        3
     5.     Project Executive. ......................................................................................................      3
     6.     Programming Plan (PPlan). .......................................................................................              4
     7.     Sample PPlans. ...........................................................................................................     5
     8.     Unit Action Plan. .......................................................................................................      5
     9.     Project Task Force (PROTAF). .................................................................................                6
    10.     PROTAF Responsibilities: ........................................................................................              6
    11.     PROTAF Meetings and Conferences: .......................................................................                       7
    12.     PROTAF Conference Summary Report: ...................................................................                         10
    13.     PROTAF Actions Status Reporting. ..........................................................................                   10

Section C—Tiger Teams                                                                                                                     11
    14.     Tiger Teams. ..............................................................................................................   11

Section D—Site Survey and Beddown Requests                                                                                                12
    15.     Site Survey and Beddown Requests. .........................................................................                   12

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           13

Attachment 2— SAMPLE PROJECT PACKAGE                                                                                                      15

Attachment 3— NOTIONAL TIME LINE FOR PROJECT EXECUTIVES                                                                                   19

Attachment 4— NOTES ON RUNNING A PROTAF CONFERENCE                                                                                        22
USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                            3


Section A—Project Initiation, Development and Advocacy

1. Initiation. The project execution may be initiated by a Commander, United States Air Forces in
Europe (COMUSAFE) or Vice Commander (USAFE/CV) decision, or may start as the result of a HQ
USAFE directorate or comparable staff agency (CSA) proposed project requiring multi-directorate and
CSA action.

2. Staff Advocate. If a directorate or CSA initiates a project, it will designate one of its personnel (nor-
mally a field grade officer) as a staff advocate. The staff advocate develops and coordinates the project
package (paragraph 4.) through the USAFE divisions and CSAs for comment and support before submit-
ting it to the USAFE Corporate Board for review. The staff advocate will take into consideration and
maintain advocacy responsibility throughout the life cycle of a project (i.e., cradle-to-grave responsibil-
ity).

3. Corporate Board. The corporate board, (described in USAFEHOI 38-105, Headquarter USAFE Cor-
porate Structure, 13 Sep 2004) consisting of the deputy directors and chaired by Plans and Programs
Directorate (HQ USAFE A5/8), provides cross-functional review and analysis of command-wide plan-
ning, requirements review, programming, and budgeting issues from a corporate perspective to develop
and implement courses of action. The corporate board reviews the feasibility of the package and may
approve the project for subsequent submission to the Vice Commander (USAFE/CV).

4. Project Package. The project package (Attachment 2) states the project’s objectives, analysis (to
include background, assumptions, concept of operations, and criteria), options and alternatives considered
to satisfy project objectives, recommended courses of action with milestones, limiting factors and
impacts, implementation plan specifying HQ USAFE, other major commands (MAJCOM), subordinate
units, other Air Force and, or Department of Defense agencies actions required, and costs, cost savings,
and avoidance including manpower. The staff advocate should coordinate with the host unit impacted by
the proposed project to ensure the unit’s role and participation in the project package. The staff advocate
presents the project package in briefing format for review by the corporate board. After corporate board
review and concurrence, the staff advocate will present the project as a decision briefing to USAFE/CV
for approval. USAFE/CV or higher approval of a project constitutes authority to develop a PPlan and ini-
tiate a PROTAF (paragraph 9.). Project implementation should not be started until approval by USAFE/
CV or higher. Upon approval, the project package becomes the core of the PPlan (paragraph 6.) that
guides the project. If USAFE/CV or higher (e.g., Air Staff) have already approved or initiated a project,
there is no requirement for a project package. In this case, a core PPLAN will be directly developed by a
project executive appointed by HQ USAFE A5/8 or the directorate taking the lead on the project. If a
directorate other than HQ USAFE A5/8 is the project lead, ensure all project packages (and ensuing
PPlans) are coordinated with Plans and Programs Directorate (HQ USAFE A5/8) before publication.

Section B—Project Execution Process

5. Project Executive. After project approval, HQ USAFE A5/8, or the directorate taking the lead on the
project, will appoint the project executive. The staff advocate may also serve as the project executive.
Projects that normally require across-the-staff actions and specifically involve basing actions will be
assigned to project executives from HQ USAFE A5/8.
4                                                                USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006


6. Programming Plan (PPlan). A PPlan provides guidance to accomplish a particular one-time, nonre-
curring project (e.g., unit relocation, unit activation, major weapon system beddown, or base closure or
drawdown). It documents the project objectives and actions necessary for implementation. See AFI
10-501, Program Action Directives (PAD) and Programming Plans (PPLAN), 5 Jan 1994.
    6.1. USAFE PPlans. USAFE PPlans are written only at the headquarters level. Subordinate levels
    are responsible for developing plans that supplement HQ USAFE PPlans. The PPlan comprises
    USAFE headquarters-level guidance, and assigns specific areas of responsibilities to USAFE forces.
    Following approval and publishing, it becomes directive upon all affected units and serves as a base-
    line for the development and publication of more definitive unit-level plans.
    6.2. PPlan Content. Once a project has been approved, the staff advocate develops a core plan using
    information from the approved project package. The core plan lists the project's objectives, applicable
    guidance (regulations, manuals, etc.), analysis of the project (including background and assumptions),
    planned courses of action including milestones (significant events), limiting factors and impacts, and
    implementation responsibilities. In cases where the assigned project executive is different from the
    staff advocate, the staff advocate will provide the core plan to the project executive. Once the core
    plan is complete, the project executive distributes it to the rest of the staff and requests submission of
    the functional area annexes (e.g., manpower, logistics, communications, etc.). The core plan provides
    guidance to the functional areas for their use in creating their annexes, which describe how the project
    will be functionally supported. Each annex includes functional area milestones, dates, manpower, and
    unique requirements with sufficient detail to describe what needs to be done, without directing how it
    should be done.
    6.3. PPlan Development:
       6.3.1. Project Executive Responsibilities. Project Executives:
           6.3.1.1. Designate the PPlan unclassified title and receive a plan identification number
           assigned by the Information Management Branch (HQ USAFE A5/8EA).
           6.3.1.2. If classified information is involved, develop a security classification guide (SCG)
           unless another SCG provides adequate classification guidance (see DoD 5200.1-R, Informa-
           tion Security Program, 1.1997, and AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management,
           1 Nov 2005).
           6.3.1.3. Provide core plan and information to all applicable divisions for their use in the defi-
           nition of project requirements and development of pertinent annexes to the core PPlan. Ensure
           coordination with the Arms Control Branch (HQ USAFE/A8PA) to ensure compliance with
           existing treaties for projects involving changes in beddown of aircraft and numbers of sta-
           tioned personnel.
           6.3.1.4. Consolidate annexes signed by HQ USAFE functional area chiefs and CSAs into the
           PPlan and include into the core plan a master schedule of key events (based on critical mile-
           stones identified in the annexes). Use the format of the sample PPLANs referenced in para-
           graph 7. as a baseline.
           6.3.1.5. Provide status-reporting instructions for PROTAF offices of primary responsibility
           (OPR).
           6.3.1.6. Receive clearance from the Foreign Disclosure Office (HQ USAFE/A2) before any
           oral, visual, or documentary release or disclosure of the document or its contents to any for-
USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                           5


           eign governments, international organizations, or their duly authorized representatives. If such
           a release is desired, provide a draft copy of the PPlan to HQ USAFE/A2, which will review the
           PPlan and determine what parts, if any, can be released to foreign nationals who have a vali-
           dated need to know, as prescribed by AFPD 16-2, Disclosure of Military Information to For-
           eign Governments and International Organizations, 10 Sep 1993.
           6.3.1.7. Present the draft PPlan (with annexes) for working group review prior to the initial
           on-site PROTAF conference. An on-site PROTAF conference is ideally held at the installation
           where the project occurs, but may take place at a different location if appropriate.
           6.3.1.8. After the initial on-site PROTAF conference, revise the PPlan as necessary and pub-
           lish and distribute the final PPlan within 45 days.
           6.3.1.9. Retire the PPlan when its objectives are met.
       6.3.2. Supporting Divisions and CSAs:
           6.3.2.1. Appoint functional area project representatives as required by the project executive to
           develop annexes (normally, these representatives also chair the PROTAF working groups and
           are functional area experts).
           6.3.2.2. Forward the annexes (signed by HQ USAFE functional area division chiefs and
           CSAs) to the project executive.
           6.3.2.3. Maintain, revise, and update their PPlan annexes as necessary.
           6.3.2.4. Forward the annexes to subordinate units that are tasked as action agencies.
       6.3.3. Subordinate Commanders:
           6.3.3.1. Appoint project monitors for a PPlan when their unit is an action agency. Submit
           progress reports as specified in the PPlan.
           6.3.3.2. Have their units prepare local portions of PPlans when directed by HQ USAFE and/
           or the PROTAF.
           6.3.3.3. Have their units prepare unit-level plans and guidance in support of the PPlan, if
           required.
           6.3.3.4. Provide information for USAFE PPlans to the project executive and functional area
           representatives on request.

7. Sample PPlans.
   7.1. USAFE Programming Plan 5066-04, Activation of 38th Combat Support Wing. This com-
   pleted PPlan provides an example of the process for stand-up of a new wing within USAFE. It also
   provides a standard format template to use as a reference for the formatting and structure of future
   PPLAN’s.
   7.2. Sample PPLAN’s are available for reference upon request to Basing Implementation (HQ
   USAFE/A8ZB) or at https://wwwmil.usafe.af.mil/direct/A5/A8Z/default.htm. PPLAN 5066-04 is
   the definitive reference for PPLAN format.

8. Unit Action Plan. HQ USAFE directorate or CSA ensures the unit or installation commander devel-
ops an implementation plan according to the applicable PPlan, if necessary. The directorate or CSA pro-
6                                                              USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006


vides planning guidance and specifies when copies are due from the unit or installation to the
headquarters. The directorate or CSA distributes each plan to the staff for review and then passes the com-
ments and recommendations to the unit and installation. When the PPlan and the unit drawdown or clo-
sure plan are modified and put into action, the HQ USAFE project executive sends an execution message
describing critical actions, implementation dates, and other installation-specific information. Throughout
this process, the directorate or CSA maintains close coordination with HQ USAFE A5/8.

9. Project Task Force (PROTAF). PROTAFs are project management groups convened by the project
executive to identify and coordinate actions required to accomplish project objectives. PROTAFs expe-
dite but do not replace the normal staff process.
    9.1. The project executive leads the PROTAF and orchestrates the diverse efforts of functional area
    working groups and PROTAF representatives to keep the project and its timeline on track. The project
    executive has full authority to represent and task (i.e., accept or assign action items) functional and
    non-USAFE areas not in attendance at the PROTAF conference.
    9.2. Projects may vary greatly in the length of time required to complete them. For example, beddown
    of new aircraft may take 24-30 months, while drawdown and closure of a small installation or unit
    may take only 12 months. The notional project time line (Attachment 3) shows the desired schedule
    of major PROTAF actions. Since this time line is notional, a real schedule may need to be consider-
    ably more compressed.

10. PROTAF Responsibilities:
    10.1. HQ USAFE divisions and CSAs appoint their most capable functional area experts as functional
    area representatives when requested by the project executive. The success of each functional area is
    directly related to the abilities and efforts of its representative.
       10.1.1. Within each working group (e.g., logistics working group) and functional area, the repre-
       sentative oversees the identification of required actions and execution of those actions, resolves
       associated problems, and provides collateral functional area support for the project executive.
       10.1.2. When one or more divisions within a directorate are involved in a project, the directorate
       designates one division as its project leader. Project leaders gather, consolidate, coordinate, and
       disseminate all information, requests for changes, and reports from their directorate to the project
       executive.
    10.2. When the PPlan identifies execution responsibilities for subordinate units and non-USAFE
    agencies, the project executive or appropriate working group representative requests their participa-
    tion in the PROTAF.
    10.3. Subordinate Commanders and Non-USAFE Organizations:
       10.3.1. Monitor action item OPRs in their organizations and facilitate project actions at their
       level.
       10.3.2. Provide information for USAFE PPlans to the project executive and functional area repre-
       sentatives on request.
    10.4. When problems arise in implementing the PPlan and/or unit plan, OPRs at all levels take correc-
    tive action or request assistance from the staff agency which has functional responsibility. Problems
USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                            7


   causing, or threatening to cause, a project delay are resolved through the appropriate HQ USAFE staff
   agency with status reports to the project executive.
   10.5. Project Executives:
      10.5.1. Are responsible to their directorate or CSA for implementing the project.
      10.5.2. Define the purpose, scope, and requirements of the project and serve as “referees” in
      PROTAF disagreements.
      10.5.3. Direct the functional area representatives. Establish project milestone criteria, track
      project progress as specified in the PPlan and PROTAF action items, and coordinate corrective
      action for delays.
      10.5.4. Schedule, announce, organize, convene, and conduct HQ USAFE staff PROTAF meet-
      ings. Initial meetings lay the groundwork for developing PPlan annexes and preparing the HQ
      USAFE staff PROTAF members for ensuing on-site conferences.
      10.5.5. Maintain the record copies of action items and status reports until the project is completed.
      10.5.6. The project executive, at their discretion, makes initial travel and billeting arrangements
      for the core team members.
      10.5.7. Present PROTAF status reviews to USAFE/CV, HQ USAFE directors, and CSA com-
      manders as necessary. The HQ USAFE directorate responsible for project execution approves sta-
      tus reviews requested by agencies below HQ USAFE director level. Project executives may
      conduct additional reviews, as they deem necessary.
   10.6. Functional Area Representative Responsibilities:
      10.6.1. Identify and monitor all actions needed within the functional area to successfully accom-
      plish the project and sequence them to be completed by the required dates.
      10.6.2. Track, assess, and oversee status of action items to satisfactorily meet project milestones.
      Provide results to the project executive according to status reporting instructions. Review action
      items at working group meetings and distribute action item status lists to working group members
      and action item OPR, or office of collateral responsibility (OCR) in a timely manner.
      10.6.3. Coordinate with other functional area representatives on issues involving multiple func-
      tional areas, and reach agreement before initiating action items for another functional area.
      10.6.4. Develop PPlan annex and maintain its currency. Identify in the annex what collateral sup-
      port is required from other USAFE staff agencies and from organizations outside of the headquar-
      ters (i.e., subordinate units, HQ United States Air Force (HQ USAF), other major commands
      (MAJCOM), and supporting agencies).

11. PROTAF Meetings and Conferences:
   11.1. The project executive holds meetings of the HQ USAFE staff as necessary throughout the
   course of the project. The project executive, as necessary, shall consider convening a pre-PROTAF
   conference meeting with required directorate representatives and other PROTAF members prior to the
   PROTAF conference.
   11.2. PROTAF conferences are usually held on-site to promote in-depth participation by applicable
   USAFE subordinate units, non-USAFE supporting organizations, and the local unit. Normally, only
8                                                                 USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006


    one PROTAF conference will be needed, however, a very large project may require more than one
    PROTAF conference during its life span to keep it on track. To initiate a conference, the project exec-
    utive consults with functional area representatives and the on-site unit to determine a start date and
    duration. The project executive then announces the conference. Upon receiving notice of an upcoming
    PROTAF conference, attendees submit agenda items of interest to their organization. Attendees
    should prepare accordingly, including their own administrative and funding requirements, to support
    the conference.
       11.2.1. PROTAF Conference duration is tailored to the size and complexity of the action. For a
       major closure or reorganization, the PROTAF conference may last for an entire week or more. For
       medium efforts, 2-3 days is appropriate, and for small efforts, such as deactivation of a squadron,
       it can be as short as a day or a half day.
       11.2.2. Subordinate commanders provide representatives to PROTAF conferences when it is in
       their interest, or as requested by the project executive.
       11.2.3. When the project requires implementation from non-USAFE agencies, the project execu-
       tive requests their participation.
    11.3. The Project Executive:
       11.3.1. Oversees the overall operation of the PROTAF conference.
       11.3.2. Develops agendas, ensures minutes are published, and reconciles and quality controls
       PROTAF action items. Action items are normally short-term, time-phased, well-defined activities
       or actions that address problems, issues, and tasks. Action items describe what must be done,
       establish suspense dates, and identify an OPR for the item without describing how the action is to
       be accomplished. If a ready solution or preferred approach is available when the action item is cre-
       ated, it may be included in the action item as a recommendation.
       11.3.3. Keeps the conference on track and progressing (Attachment 4). Acts as mediator where
       necessary and moves from group to group helping the functional area representatives keep their
       meetings from bogging down.
       11.3.4. Presents project information as necessary at PROTAF briefings.
       11.3.5. Conducts a daily PROTAF administrative meeting. The executive and representatives dis-
       cuss and coordinate issues from working group meetings and develop integrated responses. This
       process allows functional area representatives to work from a common position and avoid embar-
       rassing surprises.
       11.3.6. May conduct a daily update meeting (following the administrative meeting). The update
       meeting is open to the unit and installation commander and staff. Functional area representatives
       informally discuss their groups' major issues and describe what tasks their group will address dur-
       ing the remaining working group sessions.
       11.3.7. Initiates and assigns action items as necessary.
       11.3.8. Establishes standards and formats for project review slides.
       11.3.9. Provides instructions to the host unit for publishing and distributing the PROTAF confer-
       ence summary report. Manages the content and distribution of the report. Develops and publishes
       PROTAF conference instructions over and above those described in this regulation, as necessary.
USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                           9


     11.3.10. The project executive shall have full authority to represent and task (i.e., accept or assign
     action items) functional and non-USAFE areas not in attendance at the PROTAF conference.
  11.4. Functional Area Representatives:
     11.4.1. Guide their working groups’ actions in documenting required tasks, issues, and concerns
     by means of PROTAF action items. Identify in the action items what collateral support is required
     from other USAFE staff agencies and from organizations outside of the headquarters (i.e., subor-
     dinate units, HQ USAF, other MAJCOMs, and supporting agencies).
     11.4.2. Ensure their working groups review, comment on and update the proposed PPlan and
     annexes as necessary.
     11.4.3. Develop working group agendas, produce, reconcile, and quality control PROTAF action
     items.
     11.4.4. Brief status of working group actions and action items during scheduled PROTAF reviews
     and when requested by the project executive.
     11.4.5. Provide action items, working group meeting minutes and executive summaries to the
     host unit (with copies to the project executive) before the end of the PROTAF conference.
     11.4.6. Initiate new action items as necessary on their own or at the request of an organization
     within their functional area.
     11.4.7. Ensure they have coordinated with the project executive and other appropriate functional
     area representatives before allowing their group to act on changes in basic planning guidance or
     assumptions suggested by members of another working group.
     11.4.8. Define the problems and identify action items, don't try to solve them. If a simple solution
     to a problem presents itself, identify the problem in a normal action item and include the solution
     as a recommendation in the “Required Action” portion of the action item.
     11.4.9. Before each PROTAF conference ends, the functional area representatives provide copies
     of their group's meeting minutes and a roster of their working group’s attendees to the project
     executive.
  11.5. Administrative Support. The on-site conference host unit:
     11.5.1. Arranges locations for working groups, administrative, and daily update meetings. To the
     maximum extent possible, working groups are located within easy walking distance of each other.
     11.5.2. Arranges all billeting (on-site to the maximum extent possible) and local transportation.
     11.5.3. Provides host installation support to PROTAF members to include mass briefing room,
     separate working areas for working groups, computers, administrative support, audio-visual
     equipment, and office supplies as coordinated with the project executive in advance. If the host is
     unable to provide adequate conference/administrative support, the project executive will report
     these limiting factors to the staff advocate for resolution.
     11.5.4. Prints and distributes the PROTAF conference summary report if the project executive has
     decided on hardcopy distribution. Aside from correcting grammatical and punctuation errors, the
     wording and content of the minutes and executive summaries in the summary report will not be
     changed from that submitted by the project executive and functional area representatives at the
     PROTAF conference.
10                                                              USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006


12. PROTAF Conference Summary Report:
     12.1. Purpose. The summary report provides a written record of what went on at the PROTAF con-
     ference, what was agreed to, and what actions were initiated.
     12.2. Content. (Visit https://wwwmil.usafe.af.mil/direct/A5/A8Z/default.htm or contact HQ
     USAFE/A8ZB for the latest sample report and format.)
        12.2.1. Executive summaries covering significant issues, actions, and ratings.
        12.2.2. Working group minutes. When a working group has subgroups, they provide minutes to
        their working group leader for consolidation.
        12.2.3. Action items, including new items, status changes to existing items, and corrections.
        12.2.4. Action item status-reporting instructions.
        12.2.5. Attendance lists (by working group).
        12.2.6. Distribution list.
     12.3. Publication. Distribution of the PROTAF summary report will normally be done electronically
     via email as a Microsoft Word document. If a paper document is deemed necessary by the project
     executive, the unit commander hosting the conference is responsible for arranging for printing sup-
     port. In either case, the goal is to make final distribution of the report within 5 workdays after the
     PROTAF conference.
     12.4. Scope. For very limited scope projects, such as those in which the PROTAF conference is com-
     pleted in one day or less, the structure of the PROTAF conference summary report may be tailored or
     downsized as the project executive deems appropriate. (for example, distributed as a simple email
     summary of actions taken)

13. PROTAF Actions Status Reporting. Action items describe what must be done and identify an OPR
for the item, but do not describe how the action is to be accomplished. Action item OPRs and functional
area representatives submit action item progress reports in accordance with the project executive's report-
ing instructions. Unless otherwise specified by the project executive in project status reporting instruc-
tions, each report provides the status of actions specified in the PPlan as well as PROTAF conference
action items. PROTAF conference action items should be consolidated into the PPlan after the confer-
ence, so that all project actions are in one document.
     13.1. Action Item numbering scheme: the first two characters of each action item denote the PRO-
     TAF working group that generated the action item and is tracking its status. The three numbers fol-
     lowing the two-character identifier represent the order in which the action items were put into the
     action item database. Example: “A4-036” would be the thirty-sixth logistics action item identified
     and added into the database.
     13.2. In the event an organization below HQ USAFE level discovers one of its PPlan items or action
     items is beyond its capability to execute, the organization contacts the appropriate HQ USAFE work-
     ing group representative for guidance. If OPRs need to revise a PPlan item or action item suspense,
     they submit rationale for the change to the HQ USAFE functional area working group representative
     for approval.
USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                           11


   13.3. When duplicate PPlan items and action items are discovered within a functional area, the func-
   tional area representative identifies which item is deleted to avoid redundant reports. If the item is
   duplicated between working groups, the respective representatives agree which item is deleted and
   notify the project executive.
   13.4. When new action items are needed in response to changes since the PROTAF conference, the
   affected organization contacts the appropriate HQ USAFE working group representative. The work-
   ing group representative evaluates the proposed action item and consults with the item's proposed
   OCR. If the item is accepted, the representative provides a final copy to the project executive.
   13.5. OPRs and functional area representatives produce progress reports until all actions for which
   their functional area is responsible have been completed. They submit reports to the project executive
   with copies to offices having a command or functional management interest. The project executive
   specifies the reporting schedule and format. Content includes:
       13.5.1. Status of Open Actions:
       13.5.2. The reason for overdue or incomplete actions, estimated impact on project objectives, esti-
       mated completion date, and “work-arounds” (if needed).
       13.5.3. Any additional information which might affect project success.
   13.6. Each OPR forwards action item status reports to the functional area representative. The func-
   tional area representative consolidates progress reports for all action items in the functional area and
   working group, and forwards this consolidated report to the project executive.
   13.7. Actions, which have been reported as completed to the project executive by a functional area
   representative, are considered closed and are deleted from subsequent reports. When an action agency
   has completed its final assigned action, it sends the project executive a final report recapping issues,
   problem areas and solutions, and recommending improvements to the process.

Section C—Tiger Teams

14. Tiger Teams. A tiger team is a cross-functional team, smaller than a PROTAF, and tailored to the
task at hand, usually to study an issue or analyze options for a pending decision. Not all of the functional
areas require representation, but full coordination should occur at the time that membership of the group
is established. Tiger teams will be established by the USAFE staff advocate or HQ USAFE A5/8 to eval-
uate decisions for Commander United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE/CC) or other decision makers
as needed.
   14.1. The tiger team, with guidance from the staff advocate's director or from HQ USAFE A5/8,
   determines the format for the group submission. It can take the form of a decision briefing or a Cost
   and Impact Report. The group determines standard format and detail of information to be used by all
   functional areas.
   14.2. The tiger team works according to the desired timelines of the project. Limited staff personnel
   or expertise available impacts such timelines. USAFE/CV or USAFE/CC addresses areas where
   projects conflict and establishes priorities for USAFE staff members, as appropriate.
12                                                              USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006


Section D—Site Survey and Beddown Requests

15. Site Survey and Beddown Requests. Any request for site survey or beddown on a USAFE installa-
tion should follow the procedures specified by Air Force Instruction 10-503, Base Unit Beddown Pro-
gram, 29 May 2003. Requests will be forwarded through the appropriate command staffing channels to
HQ USAFE/A8ZB, the HQ USAFE A5/8 OPR for site survey and beddown requests.
     15.1. Site Survey Requests. A site survey must be accomplished prior to any beddown action
     (exceptions may be granted by Programs, Bases and Units Branch (HQ USAF/A7CPB) or, for
     intra-USAFE requests only, HQ USAFE A5/8 may grant an exception.) Requesting organizations will
     prepare site survey requests according to format in AFI 10-503 and forward through appropriate com-
     mand staffing channels to HQ USAFE/A8ZB. This should be accomplished not later than 130 days
     before requested beddown date to allow required time for the subsequent beddown request.
     15.2. Beddown Requests. After completion of a site survey, requesting organizations will prepare
     beddown requests according to format in AFI 10-503 and forward through appropriate command
     staffing channels to HQ USAFE/A8ZB not later than 120 days before requested beddown date. If
     approved by HQ USAFE A5/8, the request will be forwarded to HQ USAF/A7CPB for consideration
     not later than 90 days before requested beddown date, according to AFI 10-503 para. 3.1.
     15.3. Approval Authority. For intra-MAJCOM beddown actions only, approval authority is HQ
     USAFE A5/8. The Air Force Civil Engineer (HQ USAF/A7C) is the approval authority for all other
     Air Force beddowns on Air Force real property. For beddowns involving non-Air Force governmental
     or private organizations, Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF) or his designated representative has
     approval authority. For other than intra-USAFE actions, HQ USAFE A5/8 will forward A5-approved
     requests to HQ USAF/A7CPB for Air Staff coordination and approval/disapproval.
     15.4. Intra-USAFE Requests. Intra-USAFE requests for site-survey or beddown will be forwarded
     by the requesting organization to HQ USAFE/A8ZB for staffing. Use the request formats specified in
     AFI 10-503. Beddown request will be forwarded not later than 60 days before requested beddown
     date. HQ USAFE/A8ZB will staff the request as needed and notify the requesting organization of HQ
     USAFE A5/8 approval/disapproval within 30 days.
     15.5. Commitment of Air Force Resources. No commitment of Air Force resources or movement
     of equipment, force structure or personnel onto an installation will be made prior to completion of all
     of the following:
        15.5.1. Appropriate environmental documentation (according to AFI 10-503, para 3.4.).
        15.5.2. Receipt of Air Force (AF) approval of the beddown action (or USAFE approval for
        intra-USAFE transfers).
        15.5.3. Initiation of an equitable support agreement.



                                                MICHAEL A. SNODGRASS, Brigadier General, USAF
                                                Director of Plans, Programs and Requirements
USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                               13


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
DoD 5200.1-R, Information Security Program, 1/1997
AFPD 10-5, Basing, 26 Nov 1993
AFPD 16-2, Disclosure of Military Information to Foreign Governments and International Organiza-
tions, 10 Sep 1993
AFI10-501, Program Action Directives (PAD) and Programming Plans (PPLAN), 5 Jan 1994
AFI 10-503, Base Unit Beddown Program, 29 May 2003
AFI 10-504, Overseas Basing Realignments, 18 Jan 1994
AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management, 1 Nov 2005
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 Aug 1994
USAFEHOI 38-105, Headquarter USAFE Corporate Structure, 13 Sep 2004
USAFE PPLan 5066-04, Activation of 38th Combat Support Wing, 24 May 2004
CJCSI 2300.02C, Coordination of Overseas Force Structure Changes, 15 Apr 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
APPN—Congressional appropriation
CE—Cost Element
CSA—Comparable Staff Agency
CY—Current Year
FY—Fiscal Year
HQ USAF—Headquarter United States Air Force
LN—Local National
MAJCOM—Major Command
OCR—Office of Collateral Responsibility
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PE—Program Element
POC—Point of Contact
PPLAN—Programming Plan
PROTAF—Project Task Force
QC—Quality Control
14                                                  USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006


SCG—Security Classification Guide
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFE/CC—Commander United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFE/CV—Vice Commander
USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                       15


                                            Attachment 2

                                  SAMPLE PROJECT PACKAGE

A2.1. PROJECT PACKAGE FOR BEDDOWN OF (WEAPONS SYSTEM) AT (NAME OF
INSTALLATION).

A2.2. Purpose. This sample illustrates the type of verbiage used for a weapon system beddown. Ver-
biage for another type of project would vary accordingly.
   A2.2.1. HQ USAFE OPR - Point of Contact (POC+: (AAAA/Action Officer's Name).

A2.3. Objective. States the purpose of the project. For example: To field (name of weapon system) at
(name of installation), activate the (name of unit) and associated direct support.
   A2.3.1. Applicable Guidance and Criteria. If higher headquarters or HQ USAFE command sec-
   tion created the project, cite the applicable message or tasker. Example: HQ USAF/PA message,
   (date/time group), (subject) directed beddown of (name of weapon system) at (name of installation)
   no later than fiscal year (FY) 2X/2 and (unit name) activated in FY 2X/4.

A2.4. Analysis of the Project:
   A2.4.1. Background: Briefly describe how the idea for the project came about.
       A2.4.1.1. Explain what purpose the weapon system is to play in USAFE.
       A2.4.1.2. HQ USAFE staff recommended (name of installation) as beddown site for the (weapon
       system) due to (explain rationale).
   A2.4.2. Assumptions:
       A2.4.2.1. Resources necessary will be available to effect beddown, activation, and support of
       (weapon system) at (name of installation).
       A2.4.2.2. Political action supporting implementation of this project will be completed in time to
       support the plan's milestones.
       A2.4.2.3. Host nation will not delay the beddown or site activation and operation.
       A2.4.2.4. (Name of host nation agency) will support USAFE future needs and rights for the base.
   A2.4.3. Concept of Operations:
       A2.4.3.1. (Weapon system) will be fully mission capable not later than (date).
   A2.4.4. Criteria:

A2.5. Options and Alternatives Considered to Satisfy Project Objectives. State various options and
alternatives considered to meet objectives. Provide data used to come up with recommended courses of
action.

A2.6. Recommended Courses of Action.
   A2.6.1. Project Schedule.
16                                                                USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006


     A2.6.2. Major milestones necessary to meet beddown and support requirements:

Table A2.1. Project Schedule.
MILESTONES                                              POC                             DATE
- Host nation notification                                                              1 Jan 2X
- Personnel assignment actions                                                          15 Jan 2X
- Site Survey                                                                           1 Apr 2X
- HQ USAFE staff PROTAF meeting                                                         19 Apr 2X
- Project Task Force (PORTAF) conference                                                1 May 2X
-Beddown actions begin                                                                  15 May 2X
-Facilities ready for support equipment                                                 1 Jun 2X
-Full operational capability                                                            31 Aug 2X
-Unit assumes mission tasking                                                           1 Sep 2X

A2.7. Limiting Factors and Impacts. The following factors impact unit moves, system beddown and
activation. List factors and associated time periods. Explain briefly what actions may be needed to over-
come known problems. Special attention needs to be given when analyzing and identifying impacts to
Wings/organizations for unit moves, system beddown and activations. For mission or manpower plus-ups
at a unit, adequate Base Operating support (BOS) needs to be ensured.

A2.8. Implementation Required. Include actions necessary by HQ USAFE, other major commands,
subordinate units, and other Air Force and or Department of Defense (DoD) agencies.

A2.9. Costs and Cost Savings and Avoidances:
     A2.9.1. Show estimated costs to execute the project (in positive numbers), and estimated cost savings
     and avoidances (in negative numbers) by Congressional appropriation (APPN), Program Element
     (PE), and Cost Element (CE) in then-year (inflated) dollars.
     A2.9.2. Show estimated cost savings and avoidances (in negative numbers) by Congressional appro-
     priation in the current year (CY) and the next 5 fiscal years. All financial inputs must include support-
     ing documentation and be verified by Financial Analysis Division (HQ USAFE/FMA). Verify data on
     program elements, appropriations, and cost elements with HQ USAFE/FMA.
     A2.9.3. Show estimated manpower required to execute the project (in positive numbers), and esti-
     mated manpower savings (in negative numbers) by PE and category (i.e., officer, enlisted, United
     States (U.S.) civilian, local national (LN) civilians, and total). Verify data with Manpower and Orga-
     nization Division (HQ USAFE/A1M).
USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                  17


Table A2.2. Estimated Costs and Cost Savings, Avoidances for (Name of Installation) Closure
($ in thousands).
APPN     PE         CE         CE TITLE          CY    FY       FY      FY      FY       FY
                                                       2X       2X      2X      2X       2X



3400     27594F     05XXX      UTIL AND          0     -1231    -1259   -1285   -1313    -1341
                               RENT

3400     27594F     13XXX      OTH PURC          0     -1231    -1259   -1285   -1313    -1341
                               SVCS

3400     27594F     16XXX      OTH SUPPLIES 0          -1231    -1259   -1285   -1313    -1341

3400     27596F     03XXX      TRANS OF          0     89       68      52      0        0
                               THINGS

3400     27596F     17XXX      EQUIPMENT         0     114      0       0       0        0

3500     27596F     20101      OFFICER PAY       0     -136     -139    -142    -145     -150

3600     27596F     20102      ENLISTED PAY 0          -1138    -1138   -1168   -1189    -1225

7045     88731F     20104      PCS               0     1062     15      16      16       16

7045     88745F     321XX      OPS AND           0     -1266    -1295   -1322   -1350    -1379
                               MAINT



                    TOTALS                       0     -4968    -6266   -6419   -6607    -6761
18                                                      USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006


Table A2.3. Estimated Manpower Costs and Savings for (Name of Installation) Closure.
PE        FUNCTION            OFFICER      ENLISTED         US CIV     LN CIV     TOTAL
27596A    Security Forces     -3           -45              -10        -20        -78
35117A    Weather             -4           -30              0          0          -34
27133A    F-16                -67          -233             -30        0          -330


          Total               -74          -308             -40        -20        -442
USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                      19


                                            Attachment 3

                     NOTIONAL TIME LINE FOR PROJECT EXECUTIVES

A3.1. Project Implementation and Execution. This is an ideal timeline for project implementation and
execution and should be compressed as appropriate when a project must be completed sooner than shown
here.
   A3.1.1. Paragraphs marked with (oth) apply to projects other than base drawdowns or closures.
   A3.1.2. Paragraphs marked with (all) pertain to both base drawdowns or closures and other projects.
   A3.1.3. Paragraphs marked with (clo) pertain only to base drawdowns or closures.

Table A3.1. Sample Timeline for project implementation.
18 months before project completion:
(clo)   Project executive sends the unit a copy of Generic USAFE Base Closure PPLan, a copy
        of USAFEI 10-501, and implementation instructions.
(clo)   Announces formation of PROTAF and requests HQ USAFE divisions and CSAs
        provide functional area experts as PROTAF representatives.
(clo)   Convenes first HQ USAFE staff PROTAF meeting. Explains the purpose of the project,
        known issues, limiting factors, planning assumptions.
(oth) Staff advocate develops and coordinates project package for staff and corporate board
      review.
(oth) Corporate board appoints project executive.
17 months before:
(all)   Site survey (if applicable).
(oth) Staff advocate forwards coordinated project package to USAFE/CV for approval.
(oth) Staff advocate uses approved project package to develop core plan. Provides core plan
      to project executive.
16 1/2-16 months before completion, project executive:
(oth) Announces formation of PROTAF and requests HQ USAFE divisions and CSAs
      provide functional area experts as PROTAF representatives.
(oth) Provides functional area representatives with core plan.
(oth) Tasks representatives to provide draft annexes specific to that project within 2 weeks,
      based upon the best information available during that time.
(all)   Coordinates with appropriate CSAs and agencies at the installation where the primary
        project actions occur for time and location of initial on-site PROTAF meeting.
15 1/2-15 months before:
(oth) Functional areas provide draft annexes to the project executive.
(oth) Project executive consolidates core plan and annexes into draft PPlan.
20                                                             USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006


(all)   Project executive sends message announcing on-site PROTAF conference, listing
        location and agenda, identifying functional area representatives and conference POCs,
        explaining goals of the meeting, and requesting further pertinent agenda items.
14 1/2-14 months before:
(all)   Initial on-site PROTAF conference.
(all)   The project executive in-briefs local unit and attendees, lays out meeting goals and
        procedures.
(oth) Working groups review and correct draft PPlan.
(all)   Working groups voice concerns and issues, and create action items.
(all)   Functional area representatives write and quality control (QC) action items and meeting
        minutes and executive summaries; representatives submit their action items, minutes,
        summaries and changes to the basic PPlan when requested by the project executive.
(all)   Project executive further QCs action items, weeding out duplicates and ensuring they
        make sense.
(all)   Project executive out-briefs local unit and attendees (may have functional area
        chairpersons brief functional areas).
(all)   Host unit develops, publishes, and distributes PROTAF conference summary report.
13 1/2-13 months before project completion:
(oth) Project executive revises PPlan based on PROTAF conference results and attaches
      conference action items to PPlan. Coordinates PPlan with HQ USAFE directorates and
      CSAs.
12 1/2-12 months before:
(oth) Project executive distributes final PPlan.
(clo)   Project executive sends execution message for base drawdown and closure.
11-9 months before:
(all)   Monitor status reports from functional area representatives and action item OPRs, take
        action as necessary, and assist where needed. Produce and send out PROTAF action
        item summary message showing action item status as reported by functional area
        representatives.
8-6 months before project completion:
(all)   Convene follow-on on-site PROTAF conference if necessary.
(all)   Monitor status reports from functional area representatives and action item OPRs, take
        action as necessary, and assist where needed. Produce and send out PROTAF action
        item summary message showing action item status as reported by functional area
        representatives.
USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006                                                                   21


6-1 months before:
(all)   Monitor status reports from functional area representatives and action item OPRs, take
        action as necessary, and assist where needed. Produce and send out PROTAF action
        item summary message showing action item status as reported by functional area
        representatives.
0 months: Project complete:
NOTE: The time line for weapon system beddowns involving new aircraft usually needs to
start 12-18 months earlier than the schedule shown here.
22                                                               USAFEI10-501 19 SEPTEMBER 2006


                                               Attachment 4

                         NOTES ON RUNNING A PROTAF CONFERENCE

A4.1. General. Listed below are some hints for running a PROTAF Conference.
     A4.1.1. Define the problems; don't try to solve them. There is not enough time or people to solve the
     problems, and normally the attendees do not have the authority to commit their agencies to a particu-
     lar solution.
     A4.1.2. If a simple solution to a problem presents itself, identify the problem in a normal action item
     and include the solution as a recommendation in the “Required Action” portion of the action item.
     A4.1.3. Document action items; don't allow “handshakes” and promises of action to replace action
     items. If one of the “handshakers” moves or goes to another job, the deal falls through, leaving no doc-
     umentation of the problem to keep it from “falling through the cracks.”
     A4.1.4. Don't let working group discussion digress into “shop talk”; ask if the item under discussion
     needs to be made into an action item. If not, move on to something that does.
     A4.1.5. Don't bog down in too much detail in describing the problem and the action item. If the prob-
     lem is, “What base will pick up responsibility for motor pool vehicles as Example Air Base closes?”
     just say so; avoid working out the details of how many and what type. The action item OPR will take
     care of it. Keep it simple.
     A4.1.6. Keep the working group meetings located as close together as possible; this makes it easier
     for working group chairpersons to coordinate with one another, and for the project executive to stay
     on top of what's going on in the group sessions.
     A4.1.7. The following publications should be used as additional sources of reference: CJCSI
     2300.02C, Coordination of Overseas Force Structure Changes, 15 Apr 2005 and AFI 10-504, Over-
     seas Basing Realignments, 18 Jan 1994.
