BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                  UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                              EUROPE 51-712
EUROPE
                                                                                   28 JULY 2014

                                                                                             Law

                                                      CONTROL PROCEDURES FOR THE
                                                   SUPPLY OF TAX-FREE GASOLINE AND
                                                 DIESEL FUEL IN THE UNITED KINGDOM



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: Det 1, HQ USAFE                                             Certified by: Det 1, HQ USAFE
                                                                            (Col Matthew Grant)
                                                                                        Pages: 9
Supersedes: 3AFI51-701, 1 December 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-7, International Law. It
contains procedures for the supply of tax-free motor fuel to entitled personnel of the United
States Force (USF) at United States (US) bases throughout the United Kingdom (UK). The
procedures contained herein provide a standardized system within the UK that will ensure
adequate internal control throughout the entire program. Strict adherence to this instruction is
required as deviations therefrom may result in the withdrawal of this tax-free privilege by the
UK government from the US Force in the UK. This instruction applies to personnel permanently
stationed or on temporary duty (TDY) in the UK. This instruction provides a basis for punitive
action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) for US Air Force military personnel
or administrative action, to include possible revocation of all duty- free privileges for military
and civilian personnel. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units,
to the Air National Guard of the United States (ANGUS), and to dependents and civilian
employees as set forth in paragraph 1. For application of this instruction to Army, Navy, and
Marine Corps members and respective civilian personnel, see AER 550-33/CINCUSNAVEURI
5840.17A/USAFEI 51-710, Local Currency, Motor Vehicles And Related Privileges For U.S.
Personnel In The United Kingdom. Failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory
provisions of this instruction as stated in paragraph 7 and related subparagraphs by
military personnel is a violation of the UCMJ, Article 92, Failure to Obey Order or
Regulation. Violations by civilian employees may result in administrative disciplinary
 2                                                                USAFEI51-712 28 JULY 2014


action (including loss of logistic support privileges) without regard to otherwise applicable
criminal or civil sanctions for violations of related laws. Civilians may also be subject to
criminal prosecution by the host nation for violation of host nation laws. Violations by US
contractor employees will be handled according to host nation laws and the terms of their
employment contract. This instruction requires collection and maintenance of information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. § 815. System of records notice
F024 AF IL C, Motor Vehicle Operators’ Records, applies. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained IAW Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. This
publication may be supplemented, but all direct Supplements must be routed to the OPR of this
publication for coordination prior to certification and approval. The authorities to waive
requirements in this publication are identified with a Tier number (T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3) following
the compliance statement. See AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a
description of the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority, or alternately,
to the Publication OPR for non-tiered compliance items.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major
changes include a title change from 3AFI 51-701 to USAFEI 51-712 and the OPR change from
3rd Air Force-United Kingdom (3AF-UK) to Headquarters, United States Air Forces in Europe,
Detachment 1, which is referred to throughout this document as United States Air Forces in
Europe-United States Air Forces Africa/United Kingdom (USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK). It changes
the name of the 3AF Form 435, 3 AF Driving/Fuel Permit to USAFE Form 435, USAFE-
AFAFRICA/UK Driving/Fuel Permit. It expands the scope to include disciplinary actions for
civilians and contractors if this instruction is not adhered to. Changes also include the addition
of the definition of “Dependent Spouse.” Finally, it clarifies the entitlement for contractor
employees of US-owned companies and expands it for military and civilian members who
require a valid Power of Attorney (POA) under certain circumstances.
1. Scope.
     1.1. This instruction implements an agreement with Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs on
     behalf of the UK government. The agreement is applicable to all elements of the US Force in
     the UK and other eligible personnel within the confines of US installations. It provides
     control procedures for providing tax-free motor fuel to US Force personnel.
     1.2. Violation of the provisions of this instruction may result in the withdrawal of individual
     purchase privileges, and subject US Force and Department of Defense (DoD) civilian
     personnel in the UK to disciplinary action under the UCMJ. Dependents may be subject to
     adverse actions in accordance with applicable service regulations.
USAFEI51-712 28 JULY 2014                                                                          3


   1.3. Civilian personnel are subject to disciplinary action (including loss of logistic support
   privileges) for violations of these paragraphs according to applicable service regulations on
   civilian misconduct and adverse administrative actions. Civilians may also be subject to
   criminal prosecution by the host nation for violation of host nation laws.
   1.4. Violations by contractor employees will be handled according to host nation laws and
   the terms of their employment contract.
2. Definitions.
   2.1. Tax-free Gasoline. Gasoline sold by the Army and Air Force Exchange Service
   (AAFES) at a price exclusive of UK excise duty and other taxes for the purposes of duty
   driving.
   2.2. Tax-free Diesel Fuel. Diesel fuel sold by AAFES at a price exclusive of UK excise
   duty and other taxes for the purposes of duty driving.
   2.3. Duty Driving. All driving in support of the US military mission by entitled personnel,
   as defined in paragraph 3 and related subparagraphs below, done both in the performance of
   normal duties and in order to serve and participate in other activities organized by, sponsored
   by, or beneficial to the US Force in the UK. It does not include pleasure driving.
   2.4. USAFE Form 435, USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK Driving/Fuel Permit (DFP). A
   controlled card that identifies entitled persons and the vehicles into which tax-free motor fuel
   for duty driving purposes only may be dispensed. Except for personnel on short-term TDY
   in the UK as discussed in paragraph 3.1. below, this card, along with a valid military
   identification (ID) card, must be shown at the service station to authorize the purchase of tax-
   free motor fuel.
   2.5. Permit Issue Office (PIO). The office designated by the installation commander or
   senior military officer at an installation to be responsible for the issuance, records and control
   of DFPs. Ideally, this will be the same office that maintains records of concession vehicles
   pursuant to 3 AFI 31-204, Control of Concession Vehicles within the United Kingdom.
   2.6. Spouse. Spouse includes a same-sex spouse as well as an opposite-sex spouse.
3. Entitled Personnel. The following personnel are entitled to a DFP, provided they meet the
provisions of Paragraph 4 below:
   3.1. Military and civilian members of the US Armed Forces permanently assigned or TDY
   in the UK and their dependent spouses. (Reserve and National Guard Component members
   are authorized while performing active or inactive duty in the UK). Military and civilian
   members of the US Armed Forces, including Reserve and National Guard on TDY in the UK
   for less than sixteen days may present their military ID card and TDY orders verifying their
   TDY status in the UK as proof of eligibility. It is not required that TDY orders show that a
   rental vehicle is authorized.
   3.2. The dependent spouse of a US Armed Forces member who is performing a remote 12-
   month unaccompanied tour with follow-on orders to the UK or the dependent spouse who
   remains present in the UK after completion of a tour of duty within the UK while the US
   Armed Forces member has deployed on a 12-month remote unaccompanied tour. NOTE:
   This entitlement is limited to 12 months.
 4                                                               USAFEI51-712 28 JULY 2014


     3.3. Civilian employees of US military departments (who are not UK nationals or persons
     ordinarily resident in the UK), including non-appropriated fund activities thereof, but
     excluding concessionaires and their employees. Dependent spouses of entitled civilian
     employees are also entitled to a DFP. Civilian employees must be employed with a US
     military department for a minimum of 20 working hours a week to be entitled to the DFP.
     3.4. US civilians accompanying and serving exclusively with the US Armed Forces.
     3.5. Individuals who are entitled to have a DFP but have temporarily relinquished their card
     for traffic violation processing may be issued a temporary DFP for a period not to exceed 90
     days. Such cards shall be identified as “temporary” in the tracking database.
     3.6. Note: Under certain circumstances, and on an exceptional basis, tax-free gasoline or
     diesel fuel privileges may be granted to persons who are otherwise not entitled. Privileges
     may be granted to qualified temporary guardians strictly for the benefit of an entitled
     dependent when both parents (or the sole parent in a single parent household) of the
     dependent are deployed or are otherwise outside the UK on official government business.
     Such cases will be reviewed under separate procedures and applications will require review
     by the base Staff Judge Advocate and the Director of Legal Services, Det 1, HQ USAFE
     (USAFE-AFAFRICA/UKJA). Base Staff Judge Advocates should be contacted for further
     information when such a case may exist.
     3.7. Non-British military and civilian members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
     Intelligence Fusion Centre. This shall include the non-British spouse of such personnel.
     3.8. Military and civilian members of the US Armed Forces who present a valid POA to
     operate a vehicle registered to a military or civilian member of the US Armed Forces who is
     deployed or TDY outside the UK on official duty. Such POA holders may only receive fuel
     in the other member’s vehicle if the POA holder has not exhausted his/her quota of registered
     vehicles in their own right. For example, per 3 AFI 31-204, the POA holder has registered
     only one vehicle if married or has registered no vehicle if single. This arrangement is only
     available for on-base fuel sales and may not be extended to the Off-Base Fuel Program (3AFI
     51-702).
4. Eligibility Requirements. Entitled personnel must satisfy the following requirements:
     4.1. The vehicles concerned must be properly registered IAW applicable regulations. This
     requirement also applies to vehicles rented by entitled personnel.
     4.2. Current British road tax must have been paid on the vehicle, except during any period
     when the vehicle is exempt from road tax under temporary import regulations or the vehicle
     is otherwise entitled to be driven on the roads in the UK.
     4.3. The vehicle and the driver must be covered by required insurance.
     4.4. The entitled person must hold a driver's license or permit which is valid for driving in
     the UK.
5. Procedures.
     5.1. Each base in the UK will maintain a complete and current list of all personnel who have
     been issued a DFP at that base. (T-0) The list will include the person’s name, license plate
     numbers, make and model of vehicles for which they are the registered keeper on the DVLA
USAFEI51-712 28 JULY 2014                                                                     5


  Form V5C, Registration Certificate. The DFP shall also specify its expiration date. No
  applications for a DFP will be approved for persons or vehicles not included on this list.
     5.1.1. Where an entitled person seeks to document more than two vehicles on a DFP, the
     entitled person must justify why more than two vehicles are required for duty driving
     purposes. If an entitled person is unable to provide justification, the PIO shall refuse to
     document a third or subsequent vehicle.
     5.1.2. Members must obtain a memorandum from their unit commander or First Sergeant
     stating that more than two vehicles are required for duty driving purposes. This
     memorandum must be presented to the PIO before a third or subsequent vehicle is added
     to the DFP.
     5.1.3. Authorization for four vehicles may be documented on each DFP in the case of
     entitled personnel owning/keeping more than one two vehicles. If more than four vehicles
     have been approved and must be documented, additional DFPs may be used.
     5.1.4. In the case of an entitled person renting or using a vehicle temporarily because
     their own vehicle has not arrived in country or is under repair, or is being loaned to
     another entitled eligible individual, a temporary DFP may be issued for periods up to 30
     days. Such records shall be identified as “temporary” in the tracking database.
     Temporary DFPs may also be issued for the same period when the driving permit has
     been relinquished to local UK authorities for processing of traffic violations. (T-0)
  5.2. Purchase. Tax-free gasoline will be purchased at authorized AAFES service station
  facilities only. DFP (or military/civilian TDY orders, see paragraphs 2.4. and 3.1. above) and
  ID cards must be shown to the attendant at the time of sale. Tax-free gasoline will only be
  dispensed into or used by registered vehicles except in unusual cases that may involve the
  temporary use of a vehicle. Individuals seeking to purchase tax-free gasoline for temporary
  use vehicles must provide adequate documentation (e.g. car rental agreement, power of
  attorney, supervisor’s letter, etc.) for the duration of the temporary use.
  5.3. Expiration of DFP. Personnel will be required to relinquish, account for or have
  restrictions placed upon the use of their DFP on the following occasions:
     5.3.1. When an individual is transferred on Permanent Change of Station (PCS) orders.
     5.3.2. When an individual sells or otherwise disposes of any vehicle listed on a DFP.
     5.3.3. When an individual’s DVLA Form V5C has expired, is withdrawn, or is otherwise
     invalidated.
     5.3.4. When the relevant conditions under which the DFP was issued no longer apply.
     5.3.5. If an individual’s driver’s permit is withdrawn, expires or becomes invalid, the
     individual’s commanding officer has discretion to determine whether the tax-free fuel
     privilege should also be withdrawn. A driving permit may be stamped “Revoked” while
     allowing the fuel permit to remain valid.
     5.3.6. If AAFES ration privileges have been revoked by a competent authority, the fuel
     permit must be specifically revoked and the DFP turned in for re-issuance without listed
     vehicles.
     5.3.7. If an individual breaches any of the requirements of paragraph 7.
 6                                                                USAFEI51-712 28 JULY 2014


     5.4. Pumping fuel without proper documents. The name, unit, base and supervisor’s
     name of any individual who pumps fuel at an AAFES installation without all necessary
     documents shall be forwarded to the Security Forces commander of the installation on which
     the fuel was pumped. The individual’s commander will be notified in order to take
     appropriate disciplinary action. (T-0)
6. Control of Driving/Fuel Permits.
     6.1. Permit Issue Offices in the UK may issue permits to entitled personnel who satisfy the
     requirements of paragraphs 3 and 4. In each case an individual USAFE Form 3, Driver’s
     License/Vehicle Registration Application, must be prepared and maintained. In addition to
     personal information and details of vehicles, the application form will have details including
     the installation-unique identification number of any DFP issued to or canceled on behalf of
     an applicant. Security Forces commanders are responsible for developing procedures to
     prevent abuse in the distribution of DFPs. (T-0)
     6.2. Each PIO will produce its own DFPs using the USAFE Form 435. Each DFP will have
     an installation-unique identification number that includes an installation acronym, the year of
     issue and a serial number. Serials will renew each year. Issuing offices may use any form of
     serial number conducive to database searching and maintenance. (T-0)
     6.3. DFP expiration dates:
        6.3.1. Military members: End of DEROS month.
        6.3.2. Appropriated fund employees: Common Access Card expiration date.
        6.3.3. Nonappropriated fund and other entitled employees: One year not to exceed
        the expiration date on their government-issued identification card.
        6.3.4. Entitled US civilian contractors: One year not to exceed the expiration date on
        their government-issued identification card.
        6.3.5. Entitled dependents: Same as sponsor.
     6.4. The DFP must be laminated and made tamper proof.
     6.5. The new USAFE Form 435 will be used by the PIO immediately and unused prior
     versions destroyed. Personnel may replace prior versions with the new USAFE Form 435 at
     will. Otherwise, use of the new USAFE Form 435 will take place through attrition.
     6.6. PIOs will establish and maintain a searchable database to record the disposition of all
     DFPs held, issued or canceled. USAFE Form 3s will be maintained according to normal
     disposition rules. Records may be deleted one year after the expiration of a DFP or the
     recipient has permanently departed the UK. (T-0)
     6.7. Preparing the USAFE Form 435.
        6.7.1. Once all information is entered onto the form, it will be overstamped by the base
        registrar.
        6.7.2. Before releasing the USAFE Form 435 to the individual, it must be cut to size and
        laminated on both sides.
USAFEI51-712 28 JULY 2014                                                                           7


       6.7.3. Any spaces used to identify the vehicles entitled to receive motor fuel that are not
       used must be completely filled in with a series of capital Xs to prevent tampering (i.e.
       XXXXXXXXX).
7. Prohibited Activities: Failure to observe the prohibitions and mandatory provisions of
paragraphs 7.1. through 7.4. by military personnel is a violation of the UCMJ, Article 92, Failure
to Obey Order or Regulation. Violations by civilian employees may result in administrative
disciplinary action without regard to otherwise applicable criminal or civil sanctions for
violations of related laws. Violations by contactor personnel will be handled according to host
nation laws and the terms of their employment contract. It is forbidden to:
   7.1. Alter, deface, counterfeit or, except as provided for by this instruction, sell, give away,
   barter, pledge or dispose of a DFP in any manner.
   7.2. Sell, give away, barter, pledge or dispose of gasoline or diesel fuel obtained under the
   provisions of this instruction, or loan a vehicle containing tax-free motor fuel to persons not
   entitled under this instruction (Paragraph 3.).
   7.3. Fill, or permit to be filled, containers of any kind, except the tank that is an integral part
   of the owner’s vehicle, with tax-free gasoline or diesel fuel except small quantities for
   personal domestic use.
   7.4. Pump fuel from any AAFES facility in the UK without having in one’s possession the
   DFP and a DoD Identification card.
8. Interpretation. Direct all questions involving interpretation of this instruction to UK base
legal offices.




                                              DOUGLAS A. COX, Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Director, Detachment 1, Headquarters United States
                                              Air Forces in Europe
 8                                                           USAFEI51-712 28 JULY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 51-7, International Law, 5 February 2009
AFI 31-204 USAFESUP1, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 5 January 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
USAFEI 51-710(I)/AER 550-33/CINCUSNAVEURI 5840.17A, Local Currency, Motor
Vehicles And Related Privileges for U.S. Personnel in the United Kingdom, 27 September 2013
3AFI 31-204, Control of Concession Vehicles within the United Kingdom, 10 March 2005
Prescribed Forms
USAFE Form 435, USAFE-AFAFRICA/UK Driving/Fuel Permit
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DVLA Form V5C, Registration Certificate
USAFE Form 3, Driver’s License/Vehicle Registration Application

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
AFI—Air Force Instruction
ANGUS—Air National Guard of the United States
DEROS—Date Estimated Return from Overseas
DFP—Driving/Fuel Permit—Identification
DoD—Department of Defense
ID—Identification
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PIO—Permit Issue Office
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
POA—Power of Attorney
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
UK—United Kingdom
USAFEI51-712 28 JULY 2014                                                     9


US—United States
USAFE—AFAFRICA/UK - United States Air Forces in Europe-United States Air Forces
Africa/United Kingdom
