BY ORDER OF THE                                         HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
SUPERINTENDENT                                                           INSTRUCTION 36-3102
                                                                                            18 JUNE 2008
                                                                              Certified Current 4 May 2011
                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                                          USAF ACADEMY GIFTS AND
                                                                                MEMORIALS BOARD

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFA/CMA                                     Certified by: HQ USAFA/CMA (Ms. Nancy Burns)
Supersedes USAFAI36-3102, 17 June 2002                                                   Pages: 15

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-31, Personal Affairs, and references
AFI 36-3108, Memorialization Program and Ceremonies, by establishing the USAF Academy Gifts and
Memorials Board, its organization, responsibilities, and operating procedures and provides general guid-
ance that the Gifts and Memorials Board uses to evaluate requests for memorials and major gifts; and ref-
erences AFI 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force, and USAFA Supplement to AFI 51-601;
USAFAI 51-601, USAF Academy Management and Use of Gift Funds; AFI 32-9001, Acquisition of Real
Property; AFI 32-9004, Disposal of Real Property; AFH 32-9007, Managing Air Force Real Property;
AFI 84-103, U.S. AF Heritage Program; USAFAI 84-103, USAFA Display Aircraft Program; USAFAI
36-2809, USAF Academy Cadet Awards Program; AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs; AFI
36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards; USAFA Supplement 1; and O-Plan 7-02, Cemetery Memorial
Wall Plaque Dedication Ceremonies. It applies to all USAF Academy agencies and to other organizations
and individuals who offer gifts or seek memorialization. Refer recommended changes and conflicts
between this and other publications to HQ USAFA/CMA, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publi-
cation are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document changes the Board composition, adds requirement to provide background checks of indi-
viduals to be memorialized, identifies the cadet area as a National Historic Landmark District, deletes
requirement for Board to review monetary gifts or gifts in kind over $100,000, adds the Mall of Heroes
and criteria, and identifies aircraft approved for static display areas. Other changes are administrative in
nature. A bar ( | ) indicates revisions from the previous edition.


1. USAF Academy Gifts and Memorials Board:
2                                                                      USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008


    1.1. Objective. The Gifts and Memorials Board advises the Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC) on all
    aspects of memorialization and acceptance of major gifts at the USAF Academy. It establishes proce-
    dures (subject to HQ USAFA/CC approval), develops and coordinates guidelines for evaluating
    memorial and major gift proposals consistently, and recommends to the HQ USAFA/CC those items
    that merit acceptance or placement at the Academy. The Gifts and Memorials Board ensures consis-
    tency and adherence to long-term Academy goals by carefully examining all memorializations and
    major gifts in light of precedent and future impact upon the USAF Academy.
    1.2. Purpose. Because memorialization and major gift acceptance at the USAF Academy concern all
    members of the Air Force, the Gifts and Memorials Board operates on the premise that acceptance of
    proposed memorials and major gifts must be founded on principle, history, and merit rather than on
    personality or emotion. Memorials and major gifts should enhance the USAF Academy’s mission in a
    discernable way. The institutional perspective should dominate Gifts and Memorials Board delibera-
    tions to ensure that all authorized memorials and major gifts blend with and become part of the Acad-
    emy. The Board fully uses the expertise of all USAF Academy organizations in its decision-making
    process. Except as specified in AFI 36-3108, Memorialization Program and Ceremonies, and AFI
    51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force, the HQ USAFA/CC is the final approval authority
    for accepting any memorial or major gift at the USAF Academy.
    1.3. Responsibilities:
       1.3.1. Meetings. The Gifts and Memorials Board meets at least quarterly or at the call of the
       Chairperson to consider memorial and major gift proposals and must have a quorum of five voting
       members. If a primary voting member must send a representative to the meeting, that representa-
       tive's vote will be counted.
           1.3.1.1. Official Approval. HQ USAFA/CC’s approval of meeting minutes constitutes official
           USAF Academy endorsement of the recommended procedures, positions, or actions contained
           therein.
           1.3.1.2. Records. The Development and Alumni Programs Division (HQ USAFA/CMA)
           serves as the office of record for the Gifts and Memorials Board by maintaining copies of all
           minutes and attendant memorial or major gift case files.
           1.3.1.3. Submitting Proposals to the Gifts and Memorials Board:
               1.3.1.3.1. Originators must send proposals, in writing, to the Secretary of the Gifts and
               Memorials Board (HQ USAFA/CMA) for inclusion as agenda items for the next Gifts and
               Memorials Board meeting. The originator develops the proposal in sufficient detail with
               justification and background information to enable the Gifts and Memorials Board to make
               an informed decision.
               1.3.1.3.2. Verbal justifications/personal appearances by individuals/organizations are not
               permitted.
               1.3.1.3.3. The Secretary may refer urgent business between meetings to the Chairperson.
               The Chairperson may conduct an e-mail or telephone vote to obtain an immediate consen-
               sus from voting members. Majority of a quorum vote is required for the Chairperson to
               forward the recommendation to the HQ USAFA/CC. The Chairperson reports the results
               of any action taken to the members at the next meeting and enters the action as part of the
               permanent record.
USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008                                                                               3


   1.4. Gifts and Memorials Board Composition:
       1.4.1. The Gifts and Memorials Board consists of a chairperson, a nonvoting secretary, and eight
       primary voting members or their representatives. Nonvoting advisors from various staffs and
       agencies also attend Board meetings.
           1.4.1.1. The Director of Academy Communications (HQ USAFA/CM) chairs the Gifts and
           Memorials Board, conducts the order of business, takes votes of the members, assigns a
           project manager to oversee acquisition of memorials and major gifts, and provides overall
           direction to pending issues. The Chairperson may also act on urgent or expedient matters
           between scheduled meetings and has the authority to task other Board members.
           1.4.1.2. HQ USAFA/CMA provides the nonvoting Secretary of the Board. The Secretary sup-
           ports the Gifts and Memorials Board administratively with agendas, minutes, and followup
           actions. The Secretary maintains records, communicates with the public and USAF Academy
           members on memorial and major gift issues, and completes other duties as directed by the
           Chairperson.
           1.4.1.3. Primary members of the Gifts and Memorials Board, appointed by the HQ USAFA/
           CC, are Vice Commandant of Cadets (HQ USAFA/CWV), Vice Dean of Faculty
           (HQ USAFA/DFV), Vice Director of Athletics (HQ USAFA/ADV), Vice Commander of the
           10th Air Base Wing (10 ABW/CV), Director of Admissions (HQ USAFA/RR), Commander
           of the USAFA Preparatory School (HQ USAFA/PL), Chief of the Development and Alumni
           Programs Division (HQ USAFA/CMA), and Chairman of the Cadet Awards Council. At the
           direction of the Chairperson, these members staff the feasibility of a memorial or major gift
           and details of its placement and construction. They serve on subcommittees, report on the sta-
           tus of given projects, and perform other duties as assigned.
           1.4.1.4. Representatives from the Command Chaplain (HQ USAFA/HC), Directorate of Pub-
           lic Affairs (HQ USAFA/PA), Staff Judge Advocate (HQ USAFA/JA), Command Historian
           (HQ USAFA/HO), USAF Academy Library (HQ USAFA/DFLIB), History Department
           (HQ USAFA/DFH), 10th Civil Engineer Squadron (10 CES), 10th Mission Support Group
           Logistics (10 MSG/LGR), the Historical Properties Manager (HQ USAFA/CMA), Command
           Architect (10 CES/CEPD), and the Association of Graduates (AOG) may attend meetings to
           advise on matters within their expertise.
           1.4.1.5. The Chairperson may assign a project manager to oversee completion of all memori-
           als or major gift proposals if appropriate. The project manager may be assigned from any
           USAFA organization to coordinate tasks assigned by the Gifts and Memorials Board.
              1.4.1.5.1. The project manager will ensure coordination with necessary USAF Academy
              agencies and timely completion of the following as applicable: design, costing, and con-
              struction. 10 CES will be responsible for providing structural analysis, load analysis, envi-
              ronmental assessment, etc., to the project manager and the Gifts and Memorials Board.
              HQ USAFA/CMA will ensure an appropriate recognition event is conducted, identify
              maintenance concerns to 10 CES, and provide continuing stewardship.

2. Gift Opportunities. In many instances, federal dollars are not enough to provide for the “extra margin
of excellence” the USAF Academy seeks in developing young men and women with impeccable charac-
ter. HQ USAFA/CMA will publish the USAF Academy Gift Opportunities publication annually to iden-
4                                                                       USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008


tify items that are appropriate to receive donor funds. The process is outlined in USAFAI 51-601, USAF
Academy Management and Use of Gift Funds.
    2.1. The Gift Opportunities publication identifies giving opportunities in each major mission area
    (academics, military, athletics, character, and airmanship) as well as for institutional advancement,
    capital projects, endowment proposals, and class gifts/memorialization opportunities. HQ USAFA/
    CC annually will approve a prioritized list of opportunities developed by HQ USAFA/CMA based on
    inputs from each of the Academy's mission elements and major organizations.

3. Naming Policy:
    3.1. Government Funded Buildings, Streets, and Facilities. The USAF Academy operates under a
    self-imposed moratorium established in 1987 for naming all government-funded buildings, streets,
    and facilities. The moratorium dictates that memorialization of individuals by naming a govern-
    ment-funded building, street, or facility will be considered every 25 years on the occasion of the quar-
    ter century anniversary of the establishment of the USAF Academy (2004, 2029, 2054, etc.). Priority
    in naming government-funded buildings, streets, or facilities should be given to USAF Academy
    graduates who have made significant and lasting contributions to the USAF Academy, the USAF, or
    to the Nation.
       3.1.1. The Secretary of the Gifts and Memorials Board is responsible for accepting proposals for
       memorialization for government-funded buildings, streets, and facilities (recreational and medi-
       cal). Proposals will contain quality force reviews or background checks to ensure only deserving
       individuals are being honored. Refer to AFI 36-3108, Memorialization Program and Ceremonies,
       for guidance. Proposals will be maintained in HQ USAFA/CMA and presented to the Gifts and
       Memorials Board 1 year prior to each quarter century anniversary.
       3.1.2. HQ USAFA/CC must approve exceptions to the moratorium. Those exceptions will then be
       processed in accordance with AFI 36-3108.
    3.2. Privately Funded Buildings and Facilities. Priority for naming privately funded buildings and
    facilities will be given to an individual major donor or contributor, if appropriate.
       3.2.1. Gift offers for proposed privately funded buildings or facilities will be submitted to
       HQ USAFA/CMA who will present the proposal to the Gifts and Memorials Board. Gift offers
       will include the proposed name for the building or facility and quality force reviews or back-
       ground checks and documentation as outlined in AFI 36-3108. The Gifts and Memorials Board
       will recommend to the HQ USAFA/CC acceptance or rejection of the building or facility as
       named. Upon approval by the HQ USAFA/CC, HQ USAFA/CMA will process the gift offer in
       accordance with AFI 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force; AFI 32-9001, Acquisition
       of Real Property; and AFI 36-3108.
    3.3. Infrastructure of Buildings and Facilities. Internal areas such as conference rooms, lecture
    halls, lectinars, hallways, etc., may be named for an individual donor or major contributor. HQ
    USAFA/CMA, in cooperation with members of the Gifts and Memorials Board, will maintain a list of
    available naming opportunities.
       3.3.1. When an individual makes a major contribution that will benefit the USAF Academy to a
       supporting foundation or organization, that foundation or organization will submit the naming
       proposal to the Gifts and Memorials Board along with documentation that the individual has a
       record of outstanding and honorable service or has made a substantial and lasting contribution of
USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008                                                                              5


      time, talent, or treasure to the USAF Academy. This documentation will contain quality force
      reviews or background checks as appropriate. The Gifts and Memorials Board will recommend to
      the HQ USAFA/CC acceptance or rejection of the naming proposal.
      3.3.2. In accordance with AFI 36-3108, final approval to name internal areas of buildings and
      facilities such as conference rooms, lecture halls, lectinars, hallways, etc., rests with the
      HQ USAFA/CC.

4. Awards:
   4.1. Cadet Awards. USAFAI 36-2809, USAF Academy Cadet Awards Program, governs this pro-
   gram. All cadet awards named in honor of an individual will be forwarded to the Gifts and Memorials
   Board for review and recommendation for approval or disapproval to HQ USAFA/CC who has final
   approval authority.
   4.2. Other Awards. AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs, and AFI 36-2805, Special
   Trophies and Awards, USAFA Supplement 1, provide guidance for other awards. All local awards
   named in honor of an individual will be forwarded to the Gifts and Memorials Board for review and
   recommendation to HQ USAFA/CC who has final approval authority.

5. Major Gifts:
   5.1. Acceptance. HQ USAFA/CMA will process acceptance or rejection of all major gifts offered to
   the USAF Academy in accordance with AFI 51-601, and USAFA Supplement. The Cadet Area is a
   National Historic Landmark District, and projects may require coordination with the Colorado His-
   toric Society and the National Park Service. HQ USAFA/JA will review all offers of gifts prior to offi-
   cial acceptance.
      5.1.1. Tangible Gifts. Tangible gift offers valued at over $100,000 will be reviewed by the Gifts
      and Memorials Board prior to official acceptance of the gift. Tangible gifts will be accepted on the
      basis of their historical significance to the United States Air Force, USAF Academy, USAF Acad-
      emy graduates, or be of current use to the USAF Academy community.
          5.1.1.1. Tangible gifts for display at the Air Force Academy will respect the natural and
          man-made landscape of the Air Force Academy as a precious resource for future generations
          of cadets and the American public at large.
          5.1.1.2. Displays will be exhibited with respect to their theme and the existing environment to
          enhance the overall understanding of the display and to place each in a meaningful location in
          relation to other displays and to the Academy campus. See paragraph 8., Placing Policy.
          5.1.1.3. The Gifts and Memorials Board will adhere to the following general guidelines for
          acceptance of items for display:
              5.1.1.3.1. Support the mission of the USAF Academy.
              5.1.1.3.2. Benefit cadets and cadet candidates.
              5.1.1.3.3. Serve to further the core values of integrity, service, and excellence.
              5.1.1.3.4. Be appropriate to the setting for which it is proposed.
6                                                                       USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008


               5.1.1.3.5. Offer greater benefit to the USAF Academy than to the donor. Per AFI 51-601,
               a gift may be rejected if the cost of acceptance and maintenance is disproportionate to any
               benefit derived from it.
               5.1.1.3.6. Be in good taste and compatible with USAF Academy design and architectural
               standards.
               5.1.1.3.7. Be accompanied by an appropriate maintenance fee (10 percent of the value of
               the gift) unless a waiver is granted by the Memorials Board and HQ USAFA/CC.
               5.1.1.3.8. Be agreed to by the donor, at the sole discretion of the USAF Academy, that the
               item may be deassessed from the USAF Academy collection or moved to another location
               at the end of its display life. The Gifts and Memorials Board will propose an alternate loca-
               tion for approval by the HQ USAFA/CC. HQ USAFA/CMA is responsible for notifying
               the donor of action taken.
           5.1.1.4. The Gifts and Memorials Board must consider the acceptance and/or display of the
           following classifications:
               5.1.1.4.1. Statues.
               5.1.1.4.2. Busts.
               5.1.1.4.3. Sculptures, defined as figurative or abstract three-dimensional works.
               5.1.1.4.4. Outdoor plaques, defined as bronze placards with written inscriptions.
               5.1.1.4.5. Static display aircraft or spacecraft.
               5.1.1.4.6. Memorial benches.
               5.1.1.4.7. Memorial walls.
               5.1.1.4.8. Water fountains.
               5.1.1.4.9. Portraits, paintings, prints, placards, indoor plaques, uniforms, memorabilia,
               videos, interactive displays, etc., and other items that are generally displayed in indoor
               locations or are of minimal value are beyond the scope of this policy.
       5.1.2. Real Property. Real property gift offers valued at over $10,000 will be reviewed by the
       Gifts and Memorials Board prior to official acceptance of the gift. Real property gift offers will be
       processed in accordance with AFI 51-601 and USAFA Supplement, and AFI 32-9001.

6. Memorials. A memorial is the recognition of an individual or a group that provides lasting honor and
pays tribute to deceased as well as living military and civilian personnel with records of outstanding and
honorable service.
    6.1. The Acceptability for Installation and Display of a Memorial at the USAF Academy
    Include the Following:
       6.1.1. Useful and inspirational value to the Cadet Wing.
       6.1.2. Physical and aesthetic enhancement of the USAF Academy.
       6.1.3. Contribution to the heritage of the USAF Academy.
USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008                                                                                7


     6.1.4. Recognition of accomplishments and contributions to the USAF Academy, the Air Force,
     and the Nation.
     6.1.5. Documented acts of heroism by USAF Academy graduates, Air Force leaders, or
     air-related units.
     6.1.6. Pioneering achievement in the development of aerospace power.
     6.1.7. Consideration of precedents and probable future impact on the USAF Academy.
  6.2. Memorialization Opportunities:
     6.2.1. Graduate War Memorial is located at the north end of the Air Garden. In accordance with
     existing agreements, the Board of Directors of the Association of Graduates nominates the names
     of graduates to be placed on the Graduate War Memorial wall. HQ USAFA/CMA will contract for
     and bear the cost of engraving the names on the wall. The following individuals are eligible to be
     memorialized on the wall:
         6.2.1.1. Graduates killed in direct hostile action.
         6.2.1.2. Graduates killed within an area of conflict as the result of an incident that is in direct
         support of the activities therein.
         6.2.1.3. Graduates killed outside an area of conflict while directly supporting the activities
         within that area of conflict will be considered on an individual basis.
     6.2.2. USAF Academy POW Memorial is located at the north end of the Air Garden. USAF
     Academy graduates who were prisoners of war are eligible to be memorialized on this wall.
     HQ USAFA/CMA will contract for and bear the cost for the engraving.
     6.2.3. Cadet/Graduate Rolls of Honor are located near the entrance to the Cadet Catholic Chapel.
     HQ USAFA/CMA will contract for and bear the cost for the engraving.
     6.2.4. Officer/NCO Rolls of Honor are located around the base of the Cadet Chapel. These
     plaques recognize deceased active duty, retired, or honorably discharged Air Force officers and
     noncommissioned officers who were not graduates of the USAF Academy. Once the existing
     plaques are full, this recognition will no longer be offered.
     6.2.5. The Memorial Tree Grove planted in honor of deceased graduates is located on the walk-
     way between Doolittle Hall and the Falcon Club. This recognition is no longer offered.
     6.2.6. Cadet Honor Court memorial area provides heritage and inspiration to the Cadet Wing. It is
     intended for all United States air-related units to remember individuals or large groups of people
     who served this Nation during periods of conflict by placement of a plaque, statue, or memorial
     bench. Individuals may be honored by placement of a bust or memorial bench in the areas adjacent
     to Arnold Hall on the Honor Court level.
     6.2.7. Cemetery Memorial Wall program allows United States air-related units to recognize their
     members by placement of an organization plaque on the wall. Memorials to individuals are not
     permitted. Plaques will be added until the walls are full; future plaques may be displayed on the
     low walls adjacent to Arnold Hall.
  6.3. Acceptance and Dedication Ceremonies. Acceptance and dedication ceremonies for memori-
  als, static displays, statues, busts, etc., will be conducted in accordance with USAFA O-Plan 7-02,
8                                                                       USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008


    USAFA Cemetery Memorial Wall Plaque Dedication Ceremonies. HQ USAFA/CMA will act as over-
    all coordinator for such ceremonies.

7. Aircraft Static Displays:
    7.1. Acceptance:
       7.1.1. Aircraft for static display at the Academy will be accepted and controlled in accordance
       with AFI 84-103, US Air Force Heritage Program, and USAFAI 84-103, USAFA Display Aircraft
       Program.
       7.1.2. Proposals from a private organization to place a static display at the USAF Academy will
       be reviewed by the Gifts and Memorials Board to consider the significance to the USAF Acad-
       emy, to its graduates, or cadets. The Gifts and Memorials Board will make a recommendation for
       approval or disapproval to the HQ USAFA/CC who has final approval authority for acceptance of
       static displays.
       7.1.3. Donations of static display aircraft by private organizations or individuals will be coordi-
       nated with the National Museum of the United States Air Force, Wright-Patterson AFB OH. All
       static display aircraft are accessioned into the USAF Heritage Program.
    7.2. Installation/Maintenance:
       7.2.1. The USAF Academy is responsible for all costs of movement and maintenance of aircraft
       currently on display at the USAF Academy and for any future aircraft the USAF Academy
       actively pursues for display.
       7.2.2. Private organizations or individuals that request or donate a static display will be responsi-
       ble for all costs associated with the installation and lifetime maintenance of the air or space craft.
    7.3. Placement:
       7.3.1. All static displays will be located on USAF Academy grounds in accordance with para-
       graph 8.
       7.3.2. The 10 CES will coordinate all static display proposals for engineering support (structural
       analysis, load analysis, environmental assessment, etc.) with other appropriate agencies and
       present that information to the Board before final approval.

8. Monument, Memorial, and Static Display Placement Policy:
    8.1. Establishment of Location Zones. The USAF Academy will be divided into “Location Zones”
    for the purpose of installation and display of all monuments, memorials, static aircraft, etc.
       8.1.1. The Cadet Area Zone. The Cadet Area Zone is defined as the outdoor areas of Fairchild
       Hall, Fairchild Hall Annex, Vandenberg Hall, Sijan Hall, Mitchell Hall, the Air Gardens, terrazzo,
       and lawn area. The zone is accessible to cadets, USAF Academy staff and employees, and
       escorted visitors. It is not open to the general public except on special occasions. Displays in this
       zone should serve to inspire and educate cadets and preserve Academy heritage.
          8.1.1.1. Displays in the Cadet Area Zone should meet at least one of the following criteria:
              8.1.1.1.1. Exemplify the valor and meritorious leadership of graduates.
              8.1.1.1.2. Communicate the principles of integrity, service, and excellence.
USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008                                                                                9


           8.1.1.1.3. Showcase the value of excellence and extraordinary achievements of cadets and
           graduates.
           8.1.1.1.4. Contribute to the preservation of USAF Academy and Air Force heritage.
        8.1.1.2. Cadet Area Sub Zones:
           8.1.1.2.1. Fairchild Hall and Fairchild Hall Annex Courtyards are areas designed specifi-
           cally for sculptures, statues, and benches that will inspire and educate cadets.
               8.1.1.2.1.1. The Mall of Heroes documents the heroic contributions to the Nation
               made by USAFA graduates and serves as an incentive to the Cadet Wing.
               8.1.1.2.1.2. The first criteria for recognition in the Mall of Heroes is that the individual
               must be a deceased USAFA graduate. Additional criteria includes either receiving a
               Medal of Honor, Air Force Cross, or Silver Star; being recognized for significant
               national heroic accomplishment; or being the "first" graduate; i.e., first in space, first
               killed in combat, etc., as long as heroism is involved. No minimum timeframe is
               imposed on how long a person is deceased.
           8.1.1.2.2. Vandenberg and Sijan Hall Courtyards are areas designed specifically for sculp-
           tures, statues, and benches that will inspire and educate cadets.
           8.1.1.2.3. The War Memorial Wall will be inscribed with the names of graduates who have
           lost their lives in direct hostile action or within an area of conflict as the result of an inci-
           dent that is in direct support of the activities therein. Those graduates who lost their lives
           outside an area of conflict while directly supporting activities within that area of conflict
           will be considered on an individual basis.
           8.1.1.2.4. The POW Memorial Wall will be inscribed with the names of graduates who
           served their country honorably under the most difficult of circumstances.
           8.1.1.2.5. Cadet Area Retaining Walls are an integral part of the overall composition of the
           Air Force Academy. Memorials located on these retaining walls will be in accordance with
           the following criteria:
               8.1.1.2.5.1. Only class crests will be allowed on the Class Wall (east retaining wall
               adjacent to Cadet Chapel).
               8.1.1.2.5.2. Only plaques and inscriptions relating to cadets and graduates will be
               allowed on the other retaining walls of the Cadet Area Zone.
           8.1.1.2.6. The Air Garden area is designed to be an integral and contributing component of
           the overall Cadet Area environment. Displays located within the precinct of the Air Gar-
           den will be coordinated with the landscape design of the Air Garden and will meet the fol-
           lowing criteria:
               8.1.1.2.6.1. Only cadet/graduate related plaques may be installed within the Air Gar-
               den.
               8.1.1.2.6.2. The existing Eagle and Fledglings sculpture, Risner statue/Graduate POW
               walls, War Memorial, and flagpole are an integral, historical part of the Air Garden and
               are exempt from these guidelines.
10                                                                   USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008


            8.1.1.2.7. The Cadet Lawn area will remain as an uninterrupted green open space. Dis-
            plays on the lawn will meet the following criteria:
                8.1.1.2.7.1. No more than four aircraft will be allowed. The F-15, F-16, F-4 and F-105
                should remain on display. When newer aircraft are brought in, the F-105 will be moved
                first, then the F-4. If kept at the USAF Academy, they will be moved to the airpark
                located on South Gate Boulevard. Newer aircraft to be considered are the F-22 and
                F-35.
                8.1.1.2.7.2. The aircraft on display will have significant attachment or relevance to
                USAF Academy cadets/graduates.
                8.1.1.2.7.3. Spirit Hill is included in this area and will remain a point of interest and
                part of USAF Academy heritage.
     8.1.2. The Cadet/Visitor Zone. The Cadet/Visitor Zone is defined as the area surrounding the
     Cadet Chapel, Honor Court, Harmon Hall, Arnold Hall, Planetarium, and Visitors Center and Vis-
     itors Center Trail. The zone is accessible to the general public during normal Force Protection sta-
     tus. The Cadet/Visitor Zone is accessible to cadets, USAF Academy staff and employees, valid
     and current DOD ID cardholders, and escorted visitors during moderate increased security aware-
     ness. This zone is accessible only to cadets and USAF Academy staff and employees during
     heightened Force Protection conditions.
        8.1.2.1. Displays in the Cadet/Visitor Zone should meet at least two of the following criteria:
            8.1.2.1.1. Convey the role of the Air Force in preserving the democracy of the United
            States.
            8.1.2.1.2. Showcase the dedication and sacrifices of Air Force leaders and USAF Acad-
            emy graduates and staff members to the preservation of peace for the Nation.
            8.1.2.1.3. Honor deceased Air Force military and civilian personnel.
            8.1.2.1.4. Communicate the role and mission of the USAF Academy in preparing Air
            Force leaders in the defense of the democracy.
            8.1.2.1.5. Honor the sacrifices of USAF or other DoD organizations.
        8.1.2.2. Cadet/Visitor Sub Zones:
            8.1.2.2.1. The Cadet Chapel is an area to honor deceased cadets and graduates.
                8.1.2.2.1.1. Roll of Honor plaques to honor deceased cadets and graduates who lost
                their lives while on active duty may be placed near the entrance to the Catholic Chapel
                and at other exterior locations surrounding the Chapel.
                8.1.2.2.1.2. Honor plaques currently in place memorializing deceased active duty,
                retired, or honorably discharged Air Force officers and noncommissioned officers who
                were not graduates of the USAF Academy are located around the base of the Cadet
                Chapel. Additional plaques will not be authorized.
            8.1.2.2.2. The Honor Court is itself an integral and contributing component of the overall
            Cadet Area environment. Displays located in the Honor Court will capture Air Force heri-
            tage and should meet the following criteria:
USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008                                                                             11


                8.1.2.2.2.1. Only plaques, memorial benches, bronze statues, and sculptures commem-
                orating pre-Air Force Academy heritage will be displayed in the Honor Court.
                8.1.2.2.2.2. The installation of bronze statues will be limited to the “grove” area.
                8.1.2.2.2.3. The remainder of the area will remain uncluttered to provide an aesthetic
                approach to the terrazzo and Chapel.
            8.1.2.2.3. Area surrounding Arnold Hall on the second level should capture the heritage of
            the Air Force and the USAF Academy. It will also serve as an overlook of the athletic
            fields, athletic facilities, Vandenberg Hall, and the terrazzo. Displays within this area
            should meet the following criteria:
                8.1.2.2.3.1. The area located north of the Honor Court will be designated for memorial
                busts and benches honoring Air Force leaders and USAF Academy graduates.
                8.1.2.2.3.2. The low wall area on the east side of the Honor Court may be used for unit
                memorial plaques.
                8.1.2.2.3.3. The area outside the ballroom is designated for busts, statues, and benches
                honoring Air Force leaders and USAF Academy graduates.
            8.1.2.2.4. The Visitors Center and Trail are the areas of highest visitor concentration and
            longest visitor duration. Displays allowed within the area of the Visitors Center and Trail
            must meet the following criteria:
                8.1.2.2.4.1. This area will be designated for plaques, statues, sculptures, and memorial
                benches honoring Air Force leaders and units, and USAF Academy graduates. Display
                of space-related vehicles will be permitted in the interior areas of the Visitors Center.
     8.1.3. Cadet Athletic Zone. This is defined as the Cadet Gymnasium, Cadet Field House, Falcon
     Athletic Center, and Falcon Stadium. The zone is accessible to the general public during normal
     Force Protection status. The Cadet Athletic Zone is accessible to cadets, USAF Academy staff and
     employees, valid and current DOD ID cardholders, and escorted visitors during moderate
     increased security awareness. This zone, with exception to Falcon Stadium, is accessible only to
     cadets and USAF Academy staff and employees during heightened Force Protection conditions.
        8.1.3.1. The Cadet Athletic Zone is the proving grounds where all cadets are challenged men-
        tally and physically in realistic leadership experiences. Thus, the purpose of displays located
        around the athletic facilities should primarily focus on the warrior-athlete and scholar-athlete.
            8.1.3.1.1. Plaques, inscriptions, memorial benches, statues, and sculptures should provide
            inspiration and education to cadets and the general public on graduate warrior-athletes and
            scholar-athletes and significant accomplishments of staff and coaches.
        8.1.3.2. Falcon Stadium Zone is a focal point for Falcon football each fall and for graduation
        in the spring.
            8.1.3.2.1. The purpose of displays located in and around the stadium should primarily
            focus on the warrior-athlete, scholar-athlete, and inspirational leaders (coaches and staff)
            of the football program.
12                                                                  USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008


            8.1.3.2.2. Plaques, inscriptions, statues, sculptures, and memorial benches should inspire
            and educate cadets and the general public and must have some relevance to the USAF
            Academy Athletic Program.
            8.1.3.2.3. Donor plaques currently displayed in Falcon Stadium will remain as displayed.
     8.1.4. The Visitor Zone. This is defined as the primary arrival routes and gateways for visitors to
     the Air Force Academy, i.e., South Gate Boulevard, Academy Drive, and North Gate Boulevard.
     Purpose of displays in the Visitor Zone is to capture the heritage of the Air Force and the Academy
     and explain the role and mission of the USAF Academy in preparing leaders in the defense of
     democracy.
        8.1.4.1. Displays along the Visitor Zone will be limited and will meet the following criteria:
            8.1.4.1.1. Only plaques, memorial benches, and static display aircraft will be allowed in
            overlook areas.
            8.1.4.1.2. The airpark located at the intersection of North Gate Boulevard and Stadium
            Boulevard is designed for large aircraft, to include the B-52, C-17, C-130, C-141, KC-135,
            the Minuteman Missile, plaques, and memorial benches. Memorial walls from the ceme-
            tery will be moved to this location after all World War II veterans have passed.
            8.1.4.1.3. The airpark located on South Gate Boulevard is designed for smaller aircraft, to
            include the T-38, A-10, and six more aircraft. Future aircraft to be considered are the
            F-105, F-4, F-15, F-16, T-37, and either the HH-53 or HH-60 helicopter.
            8.1.4.1.4. The aircraft on display should have significant attachment to the USAF Acad-
            emy.
     8.1.5. The Cemetery Zone. The cemetery is the most hallowed ground on the USAF Academy.
     The installation of monuments and memorials must be sensitively handled to bestow dignity on
     those buried there and support the delicate balance between the gravesites and the surrounding
     natural environment.
        8.1.5.1. Following guidelines apply:
            8.1.5.1.1. The existing walls, plaques, and monuments will remain as displayed.
            8.1.5.1.2. Additional plaques will be added until the walls are full; future plaques will be
            displayed on the low walls around Arnold Hall.
            8.1.5.1.3. Only plaques and memorial benches will be added once the walls are full.
            8.1.5.1.4. Buildings are to be limited to an interment facility and columbaria.
     8.1.6. Golf Course Zone. Eisenhower Golf Course is one of the premier courses along the Front
     Range open to cadets, USAF Academy staff, active duty/retired military, and guests.
        8.1.6.1. Memorials within the golf course will be consistent with the original design of the
        course and be limited to plaques, memorial benches, and water fountains.
     8.1.7. The AOG/Falcon Club/VOQ Zone. The Association of Graduates/Falcon Club, and Visit-
     ing Officers Quarters Zone receives USAF Academy graduates and visitors. This area is an appro-
     priate location for commemorating Air Force personnel and organizations and USAF Academy
     graduates.
USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008                                                                                13


           8.1.7.1. Displays located with this zone will meet the following criteria:
              8.1.7.1.1. Plaques, inscriptions, statues, busts, paver stones, sculptures, and memorial
              benches are allowed within the AOG/Falcon Club, Visiting Officers Quarters Zone.
              8.1.7.1.2. Displays that commemorate significant events of Air Force organizations are
              also encouraged.
       8.1.8. The Community Center/ USAF Academy Preparatory School Zone:
           8.1.8.1. Displays located within this area should inspire and educate cadet candidates and the
           general public.
              8.1.8.1.1. Plaques, inscriptions, statues, sculptures, and memorial benches are allowed.
              8.1.8.1.2. No more than one aircraft, the F-100, will be displayed at the USAF Academy
              Preparatory School.
       8.1.9. The Airfield Zone. This is the area surrounding the Academy Airfield and flight operations
       buildings. It should showcase Air Force aircraft that inspire and educate cadets. The zone is acces-
       sible to the general public during normal Force Protection status. The Cadet/Visitor Zone is acces-
       sible to cadets, USAF Academy staff and employees, valid and current DoD ID cardholders, and
       escorted visitors during moderate increased security awareness. This zone is accessible only to
       cadets and USAF Academy staff and employees during heightened Force Projection conditions.
           8.1.9.1. The following guidelines apply:
              8.1.9.1.1. No more than one aircraft, the T-41, will be displayed at the airfield. The aircraft
              on display should have significant attachment to USAF Academy.
              8.1.9.1.2. Plaques, inscriptions, statues, sculptures, and memorial benches are allowed.
   8.2. Placement Policy. This policy is based on the Nov 66 USAF Academy Monuments and Memo-
   rials Master Plan developed by Skidmore, Owings, and Merrill LLP in cooperation with Charles Wil-
   liam and Associates, and purchased by 10 ABW.

9. Deaccession Policy:
   9.1. In cases where maintenance of gift properties becomes prohibitive, the Gifts and Memorials
   Board will be notified and will recommend through the Board minutes final disposition of those prop-
   erties to the HQ USAFA/CC. Upon HQ USAFA/CC approval of the Board minutes, HQ USAFA/
   CMA will coordinate disposition in accordance with AFI 32-9004, Disposition of Real Property, and/
   or AFI 84-103, if appropriate.
   9.2. Deaccession of all historical property will be conducted by HQ USAFA/CMA in accordance with
   AFI 84-103.
   9.3. Deaccession of all memorabilia (i.e., plaques, posters, gifts of minimal value) will be conducted
   at the discretion of HQ USAFA/CMA.

10. Recognition Policy. Individuals who contribute a significant gift ($50,000 and above) to benefit the
USAF Academy will be recognized by placing their name on a plaque at a location recommended by the
Gifts and Memorials Board and approved by the HQ USAFA/CC. Individuals for whom a building, facil-
14                                                                       USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008


ity, or interior facility is named will be recognized in accordance with signage standards outlined in the
USAFA Design Standards Guidelines maintained by 10 CES.

11. Stewardship. The purpose of the stewardship program is to sustain the confidence of donors and pro-
spective donors to the USAF Academy. Stewardship should involve staff, faculty, and cadets.
     11.1. Donor Relations:
        11.1.1. Acceptance/Thanks. All gifts to the USAF Academy are accepted in accordance with AFI
        51-601 and USAFA Supplement.
            11.1.1.1. Letters of official acceptance and thanks are sent per set guidance. HQ USAFA/
            CMA will prepare necessary paperwork for acceptance, coordinate it through HQ USAFA/JA,
            and forward letters of official acceptance and thanks to the donor.
            11.1.1.2. Organizations that directly benefit from the gift will also send a letter to the donor.
            All gifts will be acknowledged in a timely and personal manner. Organizations that benefit
            from the gift will also seek opportunities to publicize the gift, i.e., Academy Spirit, Check-
            points (for gifts from the Association of Graduates), and other media, and provide the donor an
            opportunity to participate in programs related to the gift, as appropriate.
        11.1.2. Gift Use. Gifts accepted must be used for the purpose for which they were given. If a gift
        is accepted and it cannot be used for its intended purpose, HQ USAFA/CMA will present the
        donor with an alternative proposal or give the option of having the gift returned.
        11.1.3. Annual Stewardship Report. HQ USAFA/CMA will prepare an annual Stewardship
        Report at the end of each academic year to provide a brief overview and benefit received for each
        agency or organization receiving a gift. HQ USAFA/CMA will provide this Stewardship Report to
        all donors and foundation members.

12. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed).
     12.1. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
     12.2. Prescribed Forms: No forms are prescribed by this publication.



                                                JOHNNY WHITAKER, YC-03, DAFC
                                                Director of Academy Communications
USAFAI36-3102 18 JUNE 2008                                                   15


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFH 32-9007, Managing Air Force Real Property
AFI 32-9001, Acquisition of Real Property
AFI 32-9004, Disposal of Real Property
AFI 36-3108, Memorialization Program and Ceremonies
AFI 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards; USAFA Supplement 1
AFI 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force, and USAFA Supplement
AFI 84-103, U.S. AF Heritage Program
AFPD 36-28, Awards and Decorations Programs
USAFAI 36-2809, USAF Academy Cadet Awards Program
USAFAI 51-601, USAF Academy Management and Use of Gift Funds
USAFAI 84-103, USAF Display Aircraft Program
O-Plan 7-02, Cemetery Memorial Wall Plaque Dedication Ceremonies
USAFA Design Standards Guidelines
