BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                        INSTRUCTION 36-725
(USAFE)
                                                                                           22 MAY 2009
                                                                     Certified Current 17 November 2011
                                                                                              Personnel

                                                            USAFE CIVILIAN SERVICE PROGRAM -
                                                                                    GERMANY


                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:             Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at www.e-
                           publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY:             There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/A1KC                                      Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1K (Mr. Chris Maier)
Supersedes: USAFEI 36-725, 12 March 2004                                                   Pages: 9


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-7, Employee and Labor-
Management Relations, prescribes policy and procedures governing employment, administration, and
logistic support of Non-United States (US) Citizen personnel employed under the terms of Appendix Z
of the Collective Tariff Agreement (CTA II) or individual employment agreements related to it. This
instruction applies to all United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) activities serviced by an Air Force
Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF) in Germany. It does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
or Air National Guard (ANG) units. Refer recommended changes to the OPR. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
on the AF Portal: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision updates
references, revises designations, wording and terminology.
1. Authorities. Legal authority is derived from the following documents:
   1.1. Article IX (4), North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Status of Forces Agreement
   (SOFA).
   1.2. Exchange of Notes between the Ambassador of the United States, Bonn, and the German
   Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, 11 Apr 1957.
   1.3. Article 56 of the Supplementary Agreement to the NATO SOFA with respect to Foreign Forces
   stationed in the FRG, 03 Aug 1959, as amended.
2                                                                         USAFEI36-725 22 MAY 2009


2. General:
    2.1. Authorizations and funding for Civilian Service (CS) personnel are not separately authorized
    but are part of the total authorizations and budget allocation for Non-US Citizen personnel employed
    with the organization or installation employing CS personnel.
    2.2. Installations or organizations employing CS personnel will provide logistic support in the form
    of barracks-type bachelor quarters, food service, and uniform work clothing. Attachment 2
    prescribes policy and procedures for use of government-controlled accommodations by CS
    personnel and provides administrative instructions for completing the AF Form 825, Notification of
    Personnel Action (Non-US (Germany)) (this form is not available in the standard Air Force
    Publishing system, it is generated in the Defense Civilian Personnel Data System - DCPDS), as it
    applies to housing. Attachment 3 prescribes policy and procedures for supplying CS employees
    with meals.
3. Employment of CS Personnel:
    3.1. CS employees will be hired and administered by the CPF servicing the organization or
    installation.
    3.2. The Chief, Personnel Support Division (HQ USAFE/A1K) may approve requests for the
    establishment or conversion of positions for CS employment if economically feasible and
    practicable, and when any of the following conditions exists:
       3.2.1. The employment of CS employees will increase operational efficiency and it is intended
       to establish or convert an entire category of jobs within a given functional area or organizational
       assignment.
       3.2.2. Employment of CS employees is considered advantageous in functional areas where
       availability, mobility, uniform appearance, group supervision, and teamwork are essential for the
       accomplishment of the mission.
       3.2.3. Logistical support is considered an incentive in the recruitment for hard-to-fill vacancies.
    3.3. Conversion of positions previously authorized for CS employment to CTA status will be fully
    justified and requires prior approval by HQ USAFE/A1K. Conversion of employees from CTA to
    CS status or vice versa is not mandatory nor will any coercion be exercised to achieve conversion
    plans requested in accordance with paragraphs 3.1. and 3.2. Requests will include a specific plan of
    action if filled positions are affected.
4. Terms and Conditions of Employment:
    4.1. The terms and conditions of CS personnel employment are established in the Collective Tariff
    Agreement as set forth in CTA II, and in Appendix Z thereto. Further implementation provisions are
    outlined in USAFEI 36-723, Implementation of Collective Tariff Agreement (CTA II) and Overtariff
    Conditions for Labor in the Federal Republic of Germany, and USAFEI 36-701, Civilian Personnel
    - Employment at Other Than Regular Place of Work or Domicile (Non-US Citizen Employees –
    Germany).
    4.2. Under authority of the exchange of notes between the US Ambassador, Bonn, and the German
    Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, 11 Apr 1957, and by virtue of Article IX, (6) of the SOFA, CS
    employees may be transferred at any time to any place within the Federal Republic of Germany
    (FRG), if the transfer is in the interest of the US Air Force.
USAFEI36-725 22 MAY 2009                                                                             3


   4.3. On appointment, CS employees will sign two copies of USAFE Form 29, Additional
   Conditions of Employment for United States Air Forces In Europe Civilian Service Employees. The
   employee will keep one copy; the other one will be attached to the DCPDS-generated AF Form 825
   and filed in the Official Personnel Folder.
   4.4. Uniform work clothing allowances and composition for CS employees are prescribed in
   USAFEI 36-729, Uniform Work Clothing for Non-US Citizen Personnel - Germany.
5. Personnel Identification:
   5.1. Installation passes of 86th Construction and Training Squadron (CTS) personnel shall authorize
   access to admin areas of all USAFE Bases.
   5.2. Issuance and control of firearm certificates required under Article 12 of the Supplementary
   Agreement to the NATO SOFA will be in compliance with AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force
   by Air Force Personnel, as supplemented.
   5.3. Insignia and badges to identify CS personnel will be in compliance with USAFEI 36-729.
6. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   6.1. Prescribed Forms:
       USAFE Form 17, USAFE Meal Consumption Card (Accountable)
       USAFE Form 29, Additional Conditions of Employment for United States Air Forces in Europe
       Civilian Service Employees
   6.2. Adopted Forms:
       AF Form 251, Meal Card Control Register
       AF Form 825, Notification of Personnel Action (Non-US (Germany)- Form does not exist in the
       standard Air Force Publishing Systems – it is generated by DCPDS-System
       AF Form 1846, Request for and Record of Organizational Account
       USAFE Form 52, Request for Personnel Action Non-US (Germany)




                                           CARLA H. GAMMON, Colonel, USAF
                                           Director, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
4                                                                    USAFEI36-725 22 MAY 2009


                                           Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations, 15 December 2008.
AFI 31-207, Arming and Use of Force by Air Force Personnel, 29 January 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
USAFEI 36-701, Civilian Personnel - Employment at Other Than Regular Place of Work or Domicile (
Non-US Citizen Employees, Germany), 11 August 1997
USAFEI 36-709, Time and Attendance Reporting for Non-US Citizen Employees, 16 October 2008
USAFEI 36-723, Implementation of Collective Tariff Agreement (CTA II) and Overtariff Conditions for
Labor in the Federal Republic of Germany, 29 July 1999
USAFEI 36-729, Uniform Work Clothing for Non-US Citizen Personnel, Germany, 16 February 2009
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) – Article IX (4) & (6)
Article 56 of the Supplementary Agreement to the NATO SOFA with respect to Foreign Forces
stationed in the FRG, 03 Aug 1959, as amended
Exchange of Notes between the Ambassador of the United States, Bonn, and the German Federal
Minister of Foreign Affairs, 11 Apr 1957
German Social Security Remuneration Ordinance (Sozialversicherungsentgeltverordnung)
Civilian Personnel Directive GER No. 26, Annex C, Table 5
Tariff Agreements That Apply to Persons Employed by the US Forces in Germany (English Translation)
as published in AE Pam 690-60

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPDC—Air Force Publishing Distribution Center
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CS—Civilian Service
CSU—Civilian Service Unit
CTA II—Collective Tariff Agreement
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
T&A—Time and Attendance
US—United States
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFEI36-725 22 MAY 2009                                                                            5


Terms
Collective Tariff Agreement Employees—Non-US citizen personnel employed by the US Forces in
Germany under the terms of CTA II.
Civilian Service Employees—Non-US citizen personnel employed by the US Forces in Germany under
the terms of Appendix Z to CTA II.
Civilian Service Unit— A group of CS employees integrated into a military organization or organized
as a closed unit to provide a mobile, non-combatant civilian component, supporting US Air Force units
in their fulfillment of normal peacetime tasks. A Civilian Service Unit (CSU) is not a separate US Air
Force element but subordinate to the US Air Force commander of the military organization to which
assigned or attached.
6                                                                         USAFEI36-725 22 MAY 2009


                                              Attachment 2
                       USAFE CIVILIAN SERVICE PROGRAM - HOUSING

A2.1. General. This attachment establishes policy and procedures for the use of government-controlled
housing by CS employees.
A2.2. Policy. Commanders employing CS personnel will provide them adequate government-
controlled housing. Use of such housing is at the employees' discretion unless otherwise directed in the
performance of temporary duty, participation in exercises, or similar situations.
A2.3. General:
    A2.3.1. Housing provided to CS employees will be barracks-type bachelor quarters. The temporary
    accommodation of employees in tents during exercises or periods of temporary duty is considered
    housing.
    A2.3.2. At the time of appointment, employees will decide if they intend to live in government
    quarters or not. Subsequent changes to this determination require appropriate written notification to
    the servicing CPF, through the employing activity. The employing activity has to receive this
    notification by the last work day of the month preceding the effective change date.
    A2.3.3. The servicing CPF will prepare an AF Form 825 to document an employee’s assignment or
    termination of housing, change from housing provided without cost to housing at cost or vice versa,
    or changes in participation status. The notification will reflect the employee’s determination
    regarding the use of quarters, the category of room provided, and the authority for a payroll
    deduction or exemption therefrom. Administrative instructions are contained in A2.6. below.
A2.4. Charges for Housing. Employees assigned housing will be subject to payroll deductions in
accordance with the following:
    A2.4.1. Deductions will be based on the rates established in the German Social Security
    Remuneration Ordinance (Sozialversicherungsentgeltverordnung) for the type of room
    (Belegungszahl) assigned, to include heating (Heizung) and light (Beleuchtung). The actual
    deductible amount will be one third of the rate effective at the time. Fractions will be rounded to the
    full Euro amount in accordance with commercial accounting principles.
    A2.4.2. The appropriate monthly flat rate established in accordance with A2.4.1. above, will be
    reduced by 1/30 for each day a newly appointed or separated employee was not assigned housing
    during the pay period. No adjustment will be made if an employee does not use assigned housing
    for personal reasons.
    A2.4.3. No deduction will be made for married employees who do not commute daily between
    family residence and the permanent duty station because of the distance involved, or for lack of
    transportation. The civilian personnel officer will determine whether an employee is to be exempted
    under the provisions of this paragraph. There will be no exemption if the commuting distance (one
    way) is 20 kilometers or less.
    A2.4.4. Employees who do not use housing at their permanent duty station and married employees
    covered under A2.4.3. above, will also be exempt from payroll deduction under this instruction if
    housing is utilized during exercises or at a temporary duty station.
A2.5. Control of Housing. To ensure adequate control of housing, as well as order and cleanliness in
quarters, responsible supervisors of CS employees will:
USAFEI36-725 22 MAY 2009                                                                               7


   A2.5.1. Establish house rules for the occupants in cooperation with the local works council.
   Violation of these rules may result in disciplinary action to include forfeiture of housing privileges
   up to separation from employment.
   A2.5.2. Assign or terminate housing and provide the servicing CPF appropriate information on
   USAFE Form 52, Request for Personnel Action Non-US (Germany), as a basis for executing AF
   Form 825.
   A2.5.3. Maintain a register containing the following minimum information on occupants: Name,
   room number, number of beds assigned to room, date quarters assigned/vacated, and date of AF
   Form 825 effecting the action.
A2.6. Administrative Instructions - Terminology for Housing Actions.
   A2.6.1. If a housing-related action occurs in conjunction with another personnel action requiring the
   preparation of AF Form 825, item 4 will reflect that action rather than the housing action.
   A2.6.2. If a housing-related personnel action occurs separately, terminology used in Block 4, Nature
   of Action, on AF Form 825 will be as follows:
      A2.6.2.1. On assignment of quarters. ―Quarters Assignment/Inanspruchnahme von Unterkunft.‖
      A2.6.2.2. On termination of quarters. ―Quarters Termination/Aufgabe der Unterkunft.‖
      A2.6.2.3. On change from housing provided with cost to housing without cost. ―Exemption
      from Deduction for Quarters/Befreiung vom Unterkunftsgeldabzug.‖
      A2.6.2.4. On change from housing provided without cost to housing with cost. ―Deduction for
      Quarters/Unterkunftsgeldabzug.‖
      A2.6.2.5. On change in participation status. ―Change of Quarters/Wechsel der Unterkunft.‖
   A2.6.3. Regardless of whether use of housing is subject to or exempt from payroll deduction under
   this regulation, the applicable number of persons assigned per room must be entered in German in
   block 14 of AF Form 825 as follows:
      A2.6.3.1. For rooms with one bed: "Einzelzimmer."
      A2.6.3.2. For rooms with two beds: "Doppelzimmer."
      A2.6.3.3. For rooms with three beds: "3 Bett-Zimmer."
      A2.6.3.4. For rooms with more than three beds: "Mehr als 3 Betten-Zimmer."
   A2.6.4. Terminology, remarks, and code entries required to properly complete USAFE Form 52 and
   AF Form 825 are listed in the Civilian Personnel Directive GER No. 26, Annex C, Table 5.
8                                                                       USAFEI36-725 22 MAY 2009


                                             Attachment 3
                   USAFE CIVILIAN SERVICE PROGRAM - FOOD SERVICE

A3.1. Policy.     This attachment prescribes policy and procedures for the supply of meals to CS
employees:
    A3.1.1. CS employees are authorized to eat in appropriated fund dining facilities, or receive Ground
    Support Meals from the dining facility or comparable messing facilities. Authority also extends to
    periods of non-duty status, temporary duty outside the permanent duty station, or when employees
    are participating in exercises.
    A3.1.2. Participation in messing is at the discretion of the employee unless otherwise directed
    during periods of temporary duty, exercises, or similar situations.
A3.2. Verification of Eligibility. CS employees will use USAFE Form 17, USAFE Meal Consumption
Card, together with their United States Army in Europe (USAREUR)/USAFE Installation Pass to
validate eligibility to use dining facilities.
A3.3. Control of Meals Consumed. When using a dining facility, a CS employee will present the
meal consumption card to the head counter who will punch or indelibly check mark the square for the
respective meal on that date. These entries will be the basis for payroll deductions (A3.5. below) for
meals consumed. The employee will also enter name, unit designation, and serial number of meal
consumption card on signature sheets maintained in the dining facility. For Ground Support Meals, the
official responsible for pick-up at the dining facility will have the meal consumption cards of all CS
employees receiving such meals collected in advance so that the appropriate markings can be applied to
the individual cards by the head counter at the dining facility.
A3.4. Charges for Meals Consumed:
    A3.4.1. The amounts charged for the individual meals, i.e. breakfast (Frühstück), lunch
    (Mittagessen), and dinner (Abendessen) will be those established in the German Social Security
    Remuneration Ordinance (Sozialversicherungsentgeltverordnung) at the time and will be collected
    by payroll deduction. For exceptions, refer to A3.4.5. There will be no other charges related to food
    service.
    A3.4.2. Total deductions for a calendar month will not exceed the monthly meal rate established in
    the Social Security Remuneration Ordinance.
    A3.4.3. Employees will present their USAFE Form 17 to the individual preparing the Time and
    Attendance (T&A) reports (timekeeper) no later than the first workday following the end of the
    month the card was issued for. The timekeeper will mark the card to indicate that information
    thereon was transcribed to the T&A report before having it returned to the responsible custodian. To
    allow proper payroll deductions for meals actually consumed, the appropriate data will be entered as
    prescribed in USAFEI 36-709, Time and Attendance Reporting for Non-US Citizen Employees.
    A3.4.4. To meet the prerequisites for reduction of travel allowance under the provisions of
    Appendix R, II., 1(c) to CTA II, the daily meal rate may not be charged even if the employee is
    partaking in meals at a government dining facility. Days for which an employee receives, or will
    receive, a reduced travel allowance in accordance with referenced tariff provisions will be
    disregarded when making entries on the T&A reports as prescribed in A3.4.3. above. USAFE Form
    17 will be marked accordingly by recording the number of day’s not charged and proper tariff
    reference.
USAFEI36-725 22 MAY 2009                                                                               9


   A3.4.5. Loss of the meal consumption card or failure to present it to the timekeeper as prescribed
   above, will result in full payroll deduction for meals for the respective period unless employees
   prove that they did not use a dining facility during all or part of the reporting period or were
   otherwise released for payment of meal charges. Evidence in support thereof will be presented to
   the T&A report certifying official for decision, which, in turn, will be made a matter of record to be
   maintained with the retired meal consumption cards. Circumstances surrounding the loss and
   investigative results (A.3.5.3.5. below), will also be recorded and maintained together with the Meal
   Card Register.
A3.5. USAFE Form 17, USAFE Meal Consumption Card.
   A3.5.1. USAFE Form 17 is a serially numbered controlled form. Requisition, issue, and control
   will be in accordance with applicable instructions and the provisions of this attachment.
   A3.5.2. The commander of a CSU will appoint an Organizational Account Representative (OAR)
   and an alternate for the unit. Their names will be reported with AF Form 1846, Request for and
   Record of Organizational Account, to the Air Force Publishing Distribution Center (AFPDC) at
   AFDPO-AFPDC-Service@pentagon.af.mil to identify them as the only persons to request and
   receive USAFE Forms 17.
   A3.5.3. To ensure adequate control of meal consumption cards, custodians will:
      A3.5.3.1. Obtain USAFE Form 17 from AFPDC and secure unissued cards in a locked cabinet
      or safe.
      A3.5.3.2. Maintain AF Form 251, Meal Card Control Register, and other substantiating
      documents to account for received, issued, and destroyed or lost USAFE Forms 17.
      A3.5.3.3. Issue meal consumption cards to authorized CS employees and obtain the recipients'
      signature on AF Form 251. The recipient’s name, unit designation, and the year and month the
      card is valid will be annotated on issued card.
      A3.5.3.4. Ensure that all meal consumption cards are returned no later than 5 days after the end
      of the month they were issued for and enter the return date in column F of AF Form 251. Verify
      that returned cards are annotated by the timekeeper as prescribed by A3.4.3. above.
      A3.5.3.5. Investigate the loss of a meal consumption card and make the result a matter of record
      (A3.4.5. above). Enter date reported and ―LOST‖ in column F of AF Form 251. If card can be
      recovered and reissued to employee, enter date in column G on AF Form 251 and time period
      reported as lost on USAFE Form 17 to allow appropriate deductions in accordance with A3.4.5.
      above. New cards issued to replace lost cards will be recalled and returned to the timekeeper
      when the recovered card is reissued.
      A3.5.3.6. Destroy by shredding or burning meal consumption cards in accordance with A3.6.
      below. Enter destruction date and certification signature in columns G and I of AF Form 251.
      For meal cards reported as lost, close out by entering ―unrecovered‖ along with signature and
      date in column I of the same line the card was originally annotated as lost in.
A3.6. Disposition Instructions. Maintain and dispose of records created as a result of prescribed
processes in accordance with the Air Force Records Schedule in AFRIMS.
