BY ORDER OF THE                                       HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
SUPERINTENDENT                                                         INSTRUCTION 36-2815
                                                                                          14 MAY 2008
                                                                           Certified Current 3 May 2012
                                                                                               Personnel

                                                             DISTINGUISHED GRADUATE AWARD



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFA/CMA                                   Certified by: HQ USAFA/CMA (Ms. Nancy Burns)
Supersedes USAFAI36-2815, 23 May 2002                                                   Pages: 3

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations, for the
Distinguished Graduate Award. It provides selection criteria and nomination procedures for the award,
honoring an Air Force Academy graduate’s significant lifetime of achievement. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of pro-
cesses prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of
Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil/rds_series.cfm. See organizational responsibilities at Attachment
1.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision adds the mandatory Accessibility and Releasability statements, updates the mandatory
information in the Opening paragraph and updates office symbols throughout the instruction. The actual
content of this instruction was not changed with this revision.


1. Distinguished Graduate Award. The United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) and the USAFA
Association of Graduates (AOG) have established the Distinguished Graduate Award. Each year the
award is presented by the Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC) and the Chairman of the AOG to a USAFA
graduate, whose lifetime of achievement is of such significance as to set them apart from their contempo-
raries. Under certain circumstances, more than one individual may be selected during a particular year.
The purpose of the award is to:
   1.1. Recognize outstanding performance by graduates who have demonstrated a lifetime of service to
   the Nation.
   1.2. Favorably promote the Air Force Academy and its graduates.
2                                                                        USAFAI36-2815 14 MAY 2008


    1.3. Promote and increase awareness of graduate heritage among alumni and cadets.

2. Award Timetable. Nominations are requested at various times throughout the year. However, a nom-
ination must be submitted to the AOG not later than 30 April for consideration during that year. The
award will then be presented the following April during the annual Founders’ Day celebration held at the
Air Force Academy.

3. Selection Criteria. Award selection is based on a lifetime of achievement that is of such significance
as to set the individual apart from their contemporaries. Individuals must be able to attend the presentation
in order to be selected. Posthumous nominations will only be considered in rare instances.

4. Nomination Packages. Packages should be divided into three sections.
    4.1. Section I. A cover letter from the nominating source.
    4.2. Section II. A page with administrative data to include name, present position and duty title, prior
    awards and decorations, and mailing address of the nominee.
    4.3. Section III. A three page maximum, typed narrative describing the nominee’s lifetime of
    achievement.

5. Selection Process. The AOG identifies and chairs the selection board that selects a winner. The Super-
intendent and the Chairman of the AOG will announce the selection through personal letters to the winner
and nominating source, as well as through articles in Air Force and AOG publications. Recipients will be
notified by 1 June.

6. Award Recognition. The Distinguished Graduate Award will be presented annually during the
Founders’ Day dinner at the Academy. The winner will be honored with a permanent bronze relief placed
along the Academy Heritage Trail located near Doolittle Hall, gifted to the Academy by the AOG. The
AOG will also present the award recipient with a personal bronze plaque in memory of the permanent
award. The winner and personal guests will be invited to attend the award presentation.



                                                JOHNNY WHITAKER
                                                Director of Communications
USAFAI36-2815 14 MAY 2008                                                                               3


                                            Attachment 1

                            ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES

A1.1. The Director of Communications, (HQ USAFA/CM), through the Development and Alumni
Programs Division (HQ USAFA/CMA):
   A1.1.1. Plans and coordinates all events in conjunction with award.
   A1.1.2. Develops and prints invitations and programs for Founders’ Day dinner.
   A1.1.3. Arranges escort officers for Distinguished Graduate Award winners.
   A1.1.4. Requests through Photo (USAFA/PAVSCP) a photographer to document events.
   A1.1.5. Prepares and coordinates articles for the Association of Graduates Checkpoints magazine and
   the Academy Spirit paper as necessary.

A1.2. The Director of Protocol (HQ USAFA/CCP):
   A1.2.1. Coordinates with HQ USAFA/CMA to develop, for HQ USAFA/CC approval, an appropriate
   guest list for all events.
   A1.2.2. Coordinates and manages itineraries for Distinguished Graduate Award recipients and
   spouses.

A1.3. The Director of Public Affairs (HQ USAFA/PA):
   A1.3.1. Prepares and executes public affairs plan for local, regional and national press coverage.
   A1.3.2. Hosts press events as required during award events.

A1.4. The Association of Graduates (AOG):
   A1.4.1. Requests nominations for award, forms selection committee, and notifies recipients upon
   selection in coordination with HQ USAFA/CC.
   A1.4.2. Gifts permanent bronze relief and personal bronze plaque for each award winner.
   A1.4.3. Gifts award winners’ travel and lodging.
   A1.4.4. Hosts awards dinner and prepares appropriate remarks.
