BY ORDER OF THE                                            HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 34-201

                                                                            21 OCTOBER 2009
                                                         Certified Current on 16 November 2011
                                                                                      Services

                                                             FALCON STADIUM PRESS BOX
                                                                          OPERATIONS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFA/ADSFS                                               Certified by: HQ USAFA/ADS
                                                                       (Mr. Wayne Kellenbence)
Supersedes:    USAFAI34-201, 30 March 2005                                            Pages: 5


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 34-2, Managing
Nonappropriated Funds, and references Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-201 USAFA Supplement
1, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFs), by establishing the procedures and restrictions for use
of the Falcon Stadium Press Box Dining Area for social and official functions and the
management of the nonappropriated funds generated through use of the facility for special
functions. This instruction applies to all installation commanders, all Air Force military and
civilian personnel (including US Air Force Reserve [AFRC] or Air National Guard [ANG] units
and Civil Air Patrol [CAP] members) and private groups that use the facility. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision incorporates Interim Changes 1 and 2, updates the hyperlink information for the
RDS, updates all office symbols throughout the publication, removes references to AFI 65-106,
USAFA Supplement 1 as the supplement has been rescinded (Paragraph 1), removes reference
2                                                           USAFAI34-201 21 OCTOBER 2009


to AFI 65-103 (Paragraph 4.1), and updates blackout information for Graduation Day
(Paragraph 7.4.1-7.4.2).
1. Overview. The Press Box is a nonappropriated fund constructed, operated, and maintained
operation of the Air Force Academy Athletic Association (AFAAA). Accordingly, its use is
governed by the objectives of AFI 34-201, USAFA Supplement 1. These objectives are to
provide a medium through which the general public can be exposed to the United States Air
Force Academy (USAFA); to enhance the public image of the United States Air Force (USAF)
and the USAFA, and to supplement the appropriated funds required to operate the USAFA
athletic program. The fee structure is established to ensure that all operating costs, including, but
not limited to, personnel (including overtime), setup, cleanup, utilities, snow removal (when
necessary), and allowance for replacement of equipment and furnishings, are defrayed by users.
2. Press Box Usage. The Press Box may be used for the following:
    2.1. Functions sponsored by the Directorate of Athletics (USAFA/AD) including recruiting,
    marketing, development, promotions, sponsorship, and AFAAA fundraising events.
    2.2. Functions sponsored by USAFA organizations.
    2.3. Other events and functions (including those of agencies and organizations outside of
    USAFA with a valid USAFA and/or DoD sponsor) where determined appropriate and
    approved as outlined in paragraphs 3 and 6.
3. Request Letter. A letter of request should be mailed to Falcon Stadium, USAFA/ADSFS,
2168 Field House Drive, Ste 409, USAF Academy CO 80840-9500, a minimum of 3 weeks prior
to the desired use date for review by the Stadium Manager (USAFA/ADSFS). Requests made
within the 3-week window will be considered on a case-by-case basis. The Stadium Manager
will tentatively schedule the event on the calendar. The event will not be confirmed until receipt
of the required deposit. Requests will not be accepted more than 12 months prior to the date of
the event, with the exception of Directorate of Athletics and (or) AFAAA events. Prior to
submitting the request letter, requestor should call the Falcon Stadium Office at (719) 333-1151
to verify the date availability for the function. The letter of request must include the following
information:
    3.1. Type of event (retirement, wedding reception, awards dinner, etc.).
    3.2. Expected number of attendees.
    3.3. Date and time of the event.
    3.4. Catering arrangements.
    3.5. Point of Contact (POC) with mailing address and telephone number for questions
    regarding the event.
4. Use Fees. A use fee and deposit are required for all groups except Directorate of Athletics’
sponsored events. Current fees may be obtained by calling the Falcon Stadium Office at (719)
333-1151 or by accessing the Directorate of Athletics’ web page www.goairforcefalcons.com.
A deposit is required within 2 weeks of facility use approval and is refundable up to 30 days
prior to the event. The deposit should be paid by check made payable to the AFAAA or by
credit card by calling (719) 333-4924. This deposit will be credited against the actual charges,
provided the facility and equipment are not damaged. Full payment is required 2 weeks prior to
USAFAI34-201 21 OCTOBER 2009                                                                      3


the event. An invoice for any additional charges incurred will be mailed to the user after the
event. Mail the deposit check and full payment to Press Box, Falcon Stadium, USAFA/ADSFS,
2168 Field House Drive, Ste 409, USAF Academy CO 80840-9500.
   4.1. Fee Waiver. Fees will not be waived except for official Directorate of Athletics
   sponsored events, the Superintendent’s pre-graduation reception, and off-cycle cadet
   graduations. Commercial sponsors requesting the facility through the Directorate of
   Athletics’ External Affairs office (USAFA/ADEM) will comply with the terms and
   conditions of the approved Partnership Agreement with the US government (signed by a 10th
   Logistics Contracting Officer). The Partnership Agreement will be presented when the
   request for the use of the facility is completed. Directorate of Athletics’ sponsored functions
   include, but not limited to, game day activities, fund raising and developmental events, sports
   luncheons, Director’s Calls, training functions for the Directorate of Athletics, athletic
   recruiting functions, team banquets, award ceremonies, etc. Fees may not be waived for
   retirement ceremonies and Change-of-Command ceremonies or any expense deemed a
   personal obligation for DoD personnel. Fee waivers for other types of events may only be
   obtained from the Air Force Academy Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC). Waiver request
   must be staffed on an AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, and provided to USAFA/ADSFS
   in accordance with paragraph 3.
   4.2. Fee Schedule. The use fee and deposit rate schedule will be reviewed annually by the
   Falcon Stadium Manager for cost effectiveness and approved by the AFAAA Council.
5. Equipment. The user must provide any additional furnishings or equipment not already
contained in the Press Box. A catering kitchen is available. No food preparation facilities are
available in the Press Box.
6. Approval and/or Use. All event requests, other than official Directorate of Athletics’
functions, must be approved by the Falcon Stadium Manager (USAFA/ADSFS). Once the event
has been approved by the Falcon Stadium Manager, an official approval letter and USAFA Form
2, Falcon Stadium Press Box Set Up Request, will be sent to the requesting agency or person.
This letter will confirm the approval of the event and include the date and time scheduled for use
of the facility. The letter will contain specific and estimated charges that will be incurred by the
requestor and any restrictions, instructions, or responsibilities the user must adhere to.
7. Blackout Dates. The Press Box is not available on the following dates due to recurring
commitments:
   7.1. The evening prior to a home football game.
   7.2. Football home game days.
   7.3. Saturday evenings during the first 3 weeks of December, all Saturday evenings during
   the month of January, and the first two Saturdays in February.
   7.4. Graduation Day.
       7.4.1. If there is no Vice-Presidential or Presidential visit scheduled for graduation
       ceremonies, the Press Box will not be available two days prior to and including
       Graduation Day.
4                                                      USAFAI34-201 21 OCTOBER 2009


       7.4.2. If there is a Vice-Presidential or Presidential visit scheduled for graduation
       ceremonies, the Press Box will not be available one week prior to and including
       Graduation Day.
8. Alcoholic Beverages. Alcoholic beverages are permitted in the Press Box in accordance with
AFI34-219 USAFA Supplement 1, Alcoholic Beverage Program.
9. Prescribed Forms.
USAFA Form 2, Falcon Stadium Press Box Set Up Request

10. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet




                                          DR. HANS J. MUEH
                                          Director of Athletics
USAFAI34-201 21 OCTOBER 2009                                         5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-201, USAFA Supplement 1, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAF)
AFI 34-219, USAFA Supplement 1, Alcoholic Beverage Program
AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds—Guidance and Procedures
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 34-2, Managing Nonappropriated Funds

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFAAA—Air Force Academy Athletic Association
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—US Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
CAP—Civil Air Patrol
DoD—Department of Defense
NAF—Nonappropriated Funds
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
