BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                              ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 33-119

                                                                            6 SEPTEMBER 2011

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                   INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICE
                                                          OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/A6                                                            Certified by: USAFA/A6
                                                                           (Lt Col Gary Denney)
                                                                                         Pages: 8


This instruction establishes Information Technology (IT) Service Operations Management as a
key Air Force Academy Information Technology Governance process. It implements DoD
Directive (DoDD) 8000.01, Management of the DoD Information Enterprise, Air Force Policy
Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Command, Control, Communications, and Computer (C4) System, Air
Force Instruction (AFI) 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, AFI 33-150,
Management of Communications Activities, Technical Order (TO) 00-33A-1001, General
Communications Activities Management Procedures and Practice Requirements, and the
Department of Defense Information Technology Infrastructure Library (D-ITIL). This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

1. Scope.
   1.1. This instruction applies to IT systems, services, assets, applications, programs, and
   components in use at the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA), except those
   specifically excluded by USAFA/A6.
 2                                                        USAFAI33-119 6 SEPTEMBER 2011


        1.1.1. Requests for exceptions to this policy must be submitted through the Change
        Management Process (see USAFA Instruction (USAFAI) 33-116, Information
        Technology Change Management). If approved by the Change Advisory Board (CAB),
        exceptions will be sent to USAFA/A6 for approval.
        1.1.2. Approved exceptions will be listed in the USAFA IT Service Catalog (see
        USAFAI 33-101, USAFA Information Technology Governance).
2. Purpose.
     2.1. This instruction establishes IT Service Operations Management at USAFA.
     2.2. This instruction provides guidance and procedures that personnel must use to manage all
     USAFA IT services.
3. Process and Function Descriptions.
     3.1. Request Fulfillment.
        3.1.1. Request fulfillment is the process for handling and implementing requests for
        standard IT services. Service requests are the many standard IT demands by typical users
        (e.g., password resets, new accounts, etc.). The USAFA IT Service Catalog lists standard
        items per USAFAI 33-101. Nonstandard requests are handled via the Change Process
        outlined in USAFAI 33-116.
        3.1.2. The 10th Communications Squadron (10 CS) develops and maintains the Request
        Fulfillment Process.
        3.1.3. All IT service requests are submitted to the USAFA IT Service Desk which is
        responsible for ensuring requests are fulfilled.
        3.1.4. The Request Fulfillment Process includes five steps:
            3.1.4.1. Request Identification – Common methods for initiating a service request
            include, but are not limited to, a phone call, e-mail, or personal visit to the USAFA IT
            Service Desk. The USAFA IT Service Catalog explains the procedures to submit
            service requests.
            3.1.4.2. Request Logging – All service requests are logged, tracked, and date/time
            stamped. A service request ticket is opened with relevant information such as user
            information and description of the request. The ticket is then routed appropriately for
            fulfillment or reviewed for other approval considerations (e.g., funding, information
            assurance, etc.).
            3.1.4.3. Request Approval – In some cases formal approval may be required when
            funding, compliance, or other issues are involved. The Request Fulfillment Process
            includes the ability to define and track required approvals.
            3.1.4.4. Fulfillment – The actual fulfillment activity will depend on the nature of the
            service request. The USAFA IT Service Desk will complete the request or forward it
            to the appropriate office for action.
            3.1.4.5. Request Closure – After the request is fulfilled, the users are given a period
            of time (detailed in appropriate Service Level Standards (SLSs) and/or Service Level
            Agreements (SLAs)) to confirm the success of the request. Requests are closed when
USAFAI33-119 6 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                 3


        the users concur, or are closed automatically after the period of time passes without
        input.
  3.2. Event Management.
     3.2.1. An event is defined as any detectable or discernible occurrence that impacts IT
     infrastructure or the delivery of IT service. Events are typically notifications created by
     an IT service, Configuration Item (CI), or monitoring tool. Event Management is the
     process that monitors all events occurring on the USAFA IT infrastructure, evaluates the
     impact of the event to USAFA services, and escalates exception conditions.
     3.2.2. The 10 CS develops and maintains the Event Management Process.
     3.2.3. The USAFA Network Management function is responsible for Event
     Management.
     3.2.4. Event Management will monitor the performance and availability of USAFA IT
     services IAW AFI 33-115V1, Network Operations (NETOPS).
     3.2.5. Event Management develops and maintains event monitoring tools.                 The
     monitoring tools will:
        3.2.5.1. Identify exact targets and mechanisms for monitoring.
        3.2.5.2. Define what can be monitored.
        3.2.5.3. Define what needs to be monitored.
        3.2.5.4. Define what type of monitoring is required.
        3.2.5.5. Define what data will be used to populate the appropriate event record.
  3.3. Incident Management.
     3.3.1. An incident is defined as an unplanned interruption to an IT service or reduction in
     the quality of an IT service. Incident Management is the process for handling all
     incidents. The primary goal of Incident Management is to restore normal service
     operations as quickly as possible and to minimize adverse impact on the users and
     mission.
     3.3.2. The 10 CS develops and maintains the Incident Management Process.
     3.3.3. The Incident Management Process includes nine steps:
        3.3.3.1. Incident Identification – Common methods for the USAFA IT Service Desk
        to identify an incident include, but are not limited to: phone calls, e-mails, walk-ins,
        and internal system alerts.
        3.3.3.2. Incident Logging – All incidents are logged, tracked, and date/time stamped.
        An incident ticket (e.g., trouble ticket) includes relevant information such as user
        information and a description of symptoms.
        3.3.3.3. Incident Categorization – An incident is appropriately categorized by the
        USAFA IT Service Desk based on the services, systems, or applications impacted.
        3.3.3.4. Incident Prioritization – Incidents are assigned priority codes based upon
        urgency and impact. If the incident is both high impact and high urgency, it meets the
4                                                       USAFAI33-119 6 SEPTEMBER 2011


          definition of a Critical Incident. Based on this determination, the incident is
          appropriately routed IAW 10 CS Incident Escalation Policy.
              3.3.3.4.1. The USAFA IT Service Desk Manager reviews and ensures incidents
              are assigned correct urgency and impact, and are correctly prioritized.
              3.3.3.4.2. Impact and urgency shall be defined and facilitated based on
              appropriate Service Level Standards (SLSs), Service Level Agreements (SLAs),
              etc. (See USAFAI 33-101 for more details on SLSs and SLAs.) Urgency
              addresses how quickly the issue needs to be resolved. Urgency values are High,
              Medium, and Low. Impact addresses mission criticality and/or how many users
              are affected. Impact values are High, Medium, and Low.
              3.3.3.4.3. Priority codes are determined IAW current INOSC 690 NSG Spin.
              These values are Critical, High, Medium, and Low.
          3.3.3.5. Initial Diagnosis – The incident is diagnosed by the USAFA IT Service Desk
          to discover the full extent of the symptoms, assess the situation, and attempt to
          resolve the incident.
          3.3.3.6. Escalation – If the USAFA IT Service Desk is unable to resolve the incident
          within a defined time period (based upon SLSs and/or SLAs), the incident will be
          escalated IAW the 10 CS Incident Escalation Policy.
          3.3.3.7. Investigation and Diagnosis – An in-depth investigation of the incident is
          performed and information is annotated within the incident ticket.
          3.3.3.8. Resolution and Recovery – Recovery actions restore service as soon as
          practical. The USAFA IT Service Desk then notifies the users when the issue is
          resolved.
          3.3.3.9. Incident Closure – After the incident is resolved, the users are given a period
          of time (detailed in the Service Catalog) to confirm the success of the resolution.
          Incidents are closed when the users concur or closed automatically after the period of
          time passes without input.
    3.4. Problem Management.
       3.4.1. A problem is defined as the unknown cause of one or more incidents. The primary
       goal of the Problem Management Process is to prevent problems and resulting incidents
       from occurring, to eliminate recurring incidents, and to minimize the impact of incidents
       that cannot be prevented.
       3.4.2. The 10 CS develops and maintains the Problem Management Process.
       3.4.3. The Service Operations Manager assigns a problem manager and team as
       appropriate to resolve problems as they arise.
       3.4.4. The problem manager determines the resolution of the problem, and ensures the
       resolution is implemented through the appropriate control procedures (e.g., Change
       Management, Configuration Management, etc.).
       3.4.5. All problems are recorded as a problem record, and relate associated incident
       records.
USAFAI33-119 6 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                                         5


      3.4.6. Problems are categorized based on the services, systems, or applications impacted.
      3.4.7. For each problem, the problem manager reviews and ensures problems are
      assigned correct urgency and impact, and are correctly prioritized.
   3.5. USAFA IT Service Desk.
      3.5.1. The USAFA has a single IT Service Desk which is operated and maintained by the
      10 CS as part of the Communications Focal Point (CFP). The USAFA IT Service Desk
      shall:
          3.5.1.1. Receive, log, and route service requests and incidents as appropriate for the
          .EDU and .MIL networks.
          3.5.1.2. Be reachable by a single phone number and a single website/e-mail.
          3.5.1.3. Perform initial investigation and resolution of events that result in incidents.
          3.5.1.4. Escalate incidents to the appropriate IT operations team IAW the 10 CS
          Incident Escalation Policy.
          3.5.1.5. Communicate appropriately with users and perform customer satisfaction
          surveys.
      3.5.2. The USAFA IT Service Desk Manager ensures policies and procedures are
      maintained and followed by USAFA IT Service Desk staff. The USAFA IT Service
      Desk Manager shall:
          3.5.2.1. Ensure incidents are closely monitored and, when necessary, escalate IAW
          10 CS Incident Escalation Policy.
      3.5.2.2. Ensure all incidents are properly recorded to provide situational awareness,
      accurate record keeping, and metric analysis.
          3.5.2.3. Ensure incidents have a unique record identifier used to track, query, and
          receive customer feedback during the lifecycle of the incident.
          3.5.2.4. Ensure incident tickets are updated throughout the lifecycle of the incident.
          3.5.2.5. Ensure incidents are categorized based on the services, systems, or
          applications impacted.
          3.5.2.6. Ensure standards for resolving incidents (e.g., time, quantity, etc.) as defined
          within SLSs and/or SLAs are met.
          3.5.2.7. Ensure guidelines for escalating incidents are followed IAW the 10 CS
          Incident Escalation Policy.
          3.5.2.8. Ensure resolved Incidents are followed up with appropriate user notifications
          (e-mail, phone call, etc.) and customer satisfaction surveys for metric analysis.
          3.5.2.9. Ensure all resolved incidents are verified for completeness and accuracy.
4. USAFA Organizational Responsibilities.
   4.1. Director, Communications & Information (USAFA/A6) will:
6                                                      USAFAI33-119 6 SEPTEMBER 2011


       4.1.1. Review and approve the implementation of Service Operations Management
       processes outlined in this instruction.
       4.1.2. Maintain governance and oversight for development, implementation,
       performance, and continual improvement of IT Service Management processes.
       4.1.3. Report appropriate metrics to USAFA Superintendent (see Attachment 2).
    4.2. Director, 10th Communications Squadron (10 CS/CL) will:
       4.2.1. Deliver baseline USAFA IT services.
       4.2.2. Develop and maintain the USAFA IT Service Desk function as part of the CFP.
       4.2.3. Develop and maintain the Request Fulfillment Process.
       4.2.4. Develop and maintain the Event Management Process.
       4.2.5. Develop and maintain the Incident Management Process.
       4.2.6. Develop and maintain an Incident Escalation policy.
       4.2.7. Assign a USAFA IT Service Desk Manager.
       4.2.8. Report appropriate metrics to USAFA/A6 (see Attachment 2).
    4.3. All USAFA IT Customers will:
       4.3.1. Submit all IT Service Requests to the USAFA IT Service Desk.
       4.3.2. Submit all IT Incidents to the USAFA IT Service Desk.




                                           MICHAEL C. GOULD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           Superintendent
USAFAI33-119 6 SEPTEMBER 2011                                                           7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, 18 November 2008
AFI33-115V1, Network Operations (NETOPS), 24 May 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
DoDD 8000.01, Management of the Department of Defense Information Enterprise, 10 February
2009
Department of Defense Information Technology Infrastructure Library (D-ITIL)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
CAB—Change Advisory Board
CI—Configuration Item
CFP—Communications Focal Point
IT—Information Technology
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SLAs—Service Level Agreements
SLSs—Service Level Standards
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
 8                                                        USAFAI33-119 6 SEPTEMBER 2011


                                           Attachment 2
                USAFA SERVICE OPERATIONS METRICS EXAMPLES

Table A2.1. Incident Management.
     Critical Success Factors                Key Performance Indicators
     Ability to resolve incidents            Number of incidents reopened (when the
     efficiently                             incident reoccurs after closure) as a
                                             percentage of the total
                                             Average time (hours) to resolve incidents
                                             by priority
     Ability to maintain IT service          Number of incidents reported in a period
     quality                                 Number of incidents not resolved within
                                             target time by priority
                                             Number of Critical/High Priority Incidents
     Ability to improve IT and customer      Percentage of incidents handled within
     productivity                            agreed response time
                                             Percentage of incidents resolved by Service
                                             Desk / 1st Line support (first call resolution)
     Ability to maintain user/customer       Ratings on customer satisfaction surveys
     satisfaction
     Adequate staffing of Service Desk       Percentage of calls that come in via the
     resources to support customer           web/e-mail or other method (for Continual
     interactions (calls, web, e-mail,       Service Improvement)
     other)

Table A2.2. Request Fulfillment.
     Critical Success Factors                Key Performance Indicators
     Ability to fulfill service requests     Number of service requests in a period (as
     efficiently and effectively             a control measure)
                                             Size of the current backlog of outstanding
                                             service requests
                                             Average time for approval, fulfillment, and
                                             closure handling for each category of
                                             service request
                                             Number and percentage of service requests
                                             completed within agreed target times
