BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                     UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                                             INSTRUCTION 36-751
(USAFE)                                                                                                                 21 APRIL 2008
                                                                                                         Certified Current 11 May 2011
                                                                                                                             Personnel

                                                                                      WORKS COUNCIL PARTICIPATION IN
                                                                                      MANAGEMENT ACTIONS (GERMANY)



                   COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:              Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                            www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/A1KC                                                                                       Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1K
                                                                                                                   (Mr. Robert C. Maier)
Supersedes USAFEI36-751, 24 April 2006;                                                                                       Pages: 45
           USAFER40-36, 2 June 1988

This instruction implements AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations. It provides basic
policy and outlines major authorities and responsibilities for complying with the legal participation rights
of works councils on management actions affecting local labor in the Federal Republic of Germany
(FRG). It applies to United States (US) Forces activities in Germany for which the US Air Forces in
Europe act as executive agent for Local National (LN) civilian employment matters. It does not apply to
the Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. Ensure that all records cre-
ated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in AFRIMS https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision changes the
title from United States Air Forces in Europe Command Works Council Participation in Management
Actions to Works Council Participation in Management Actions (Germany) and incorporates provisions
previously covered in USAFE Regulation 40-36, Labor Management Relations Non-US Citizen Employ-
ees (Germany), 2 June 1988. The revision also changes office designations from Civilian Personnel and
Personnel Resources (HQ USAFE/A1C) to Personnel Division, Directorate, Manpower, Personnel and
Services (HQ USAFE/A1K).
      1.      General. ......................................................................................................................    3
      2.      Policy. ........................................................................................................................   3
      3.      Legal Status and Structure of Works Councils. .........................................................                            3
      4.      Participation Rights and Procedures ..........................................................................                     3
2                                                                                    USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


    5.   Authorities and Responsibilities. ...............................................................................   5

Attachment 1— GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                              6

Attachment 2— CITATION OF THE GERMAN FEDERAL PERSONNEL
           REPRESENTATION LAW (FPRL)                                                                                         7
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                               3


1. General. Non-US citizen works council activities are governed by the German Federal Personnel Rep-
resentation Law (FPRL) as modified by the Protocol of Signature re Article 56, Paragraph 9, Supplemen-
tary Agreement to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement (NATO SOFA)
(Protocol of Signature) (Attachment 2).

2. Policy. The overriding principle of the FPRL (Section 2, paragraph 1), requires management represen-
tatives and works councils to work together cooperatively in mutual confidence and respect, to assure that
work and certain social-related employee interests are well maintained, and that such interests are in full
consonance with the accomplishment of the United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) mission. Main-
tenance of sound relations requires that timely and comprehensive information on planned management
actions affecting the LN workforce is provided to works councils in order to obtain and consider the coun-
cil’s comments/coordination before finalizing any planned action. Noncompliance with works council
coordination obligations or after-the-fact notification on actions impacting the LN workforce could result
in labor court challenges and may cause substantial delays or legally invalidate management actions.

3. Legal Status and Structure of Works Councils.
   3.1. The FPRL provides the legal basis for the establishment, operations, entitlements, and responsi-
   bilities of works councils and their members.
   3.2. Works Councils are employee representation groups elected by the workforce concerned for a
   4-year term of office. They represent all employees within their respective area of responsibility on
   internal agency/employment matters.
       3.2.1. A Command Works Council (CWC) is established at the level of the Highest Service
       Authority. HQ USAFE is the Highest Service Authority for all employees of US Air Force or ser-
       viced Department of Defense (DoD) agencies in Germany. The USAFE CWC represents all
       non-US employees working in the “local” agencies within the USAFE area of jurisdiction in Ger-
       many.
       3.2.2. Local Works Councils are established in agencies as defined by HQ USAFE. Unless
       defined otherwise by HQ USAFE, an agency in the meaning of Section 6, paragraph 1, FPRL will
       be comprised of all military activities of the US Air Force and tenant organizations at a geograph-
       ical location (for example, an Air Base and off-Base sites in the vicinity thereof, a Military Com-
       munity area), that are serviced by a USAFE Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF).
   3.3. CWC and local works councils are separate and independent bodies at different administrative
   levels. The level of works council involvement is determined by the level of decision-making author-
   ity.
   3.4. Works councils are independent of trade unions. They have no right to call a strike.

4. Participation Rights and Procedures
   4.1. To a varying degree, works councils have a legal right to participate in organizational and indi-
   vidual personnel matters which impact the LN workforce. Works council consultation rights range
   from being informed, commenting, or coordinating on management actions up to full co-determina-
   tion.
       4.1.1. The co-determination right requires works council/CWC concurrence or the establishment
       of a Conciliation Committee to arbitrate a resolution; i.e., no final decision authority by USAFE
4                                                                         USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


       management (re Section 69 FPRL). Matters subject to co-determination are listed in Sections 75
       and 76 FPRL with exceptions as specified.
       4.1.2. The cooperation right requires that the planned action is being discussed/negotiated with
       the works council/CWC; however, the final decision rests with USAFE (re Section 72 FPRL) Sec-
       tions 75 through 79, FPRL contain matters subject to cooperation, as indicated.
       4.1.3. The right to be heard requires that management considers the works council’s/CWC’s
       comments, but the final decision authority rests with the local or command-level management
       authority. Matters on which the works councils are to be heard are listed in Section 78, paragraphs
       3 through 5 FPRL.
       4.1.4. The right to be informed entitles works councils/CWC to be timely and comprehensively
       informed on any actions affecting local labor that are not subject of formal participation rights
       (Section 68, paragraph 2 FPRL).
    4.2. At the level of local works councils participation, for the most part, involves:
       4.2.1. Individual personnel actions (appointments, promotions, separations), scheduling of over-
       time, establishment of work hours/shift schedules, re-arrangement of worksites, etc.
       4.2.2. Locally initiated reorganizations/manpower changes.
    4.3. At the CWC level, participation normally involves participation actions initiated above the local
    level, e.g.:
       4.3.1. Instructions, directives, command publications establishing policy, procedures, or guide-
       lines on internal, social, or personal matters of the non-US citizen work force.
       4.3.2. Plans covering deactivation, reduction-in-strength, relocation, reorganizations, or contract-
       ing out that may impact non-US citizen employees.
       4.3.3. Manpower change actions, which involve the addition, deletion, or realignment of non-US
       citizen employee authorizations.
       4.3.4. Civilian work year cost estimates, which are submitted to Headquarter United States Air
       Force (HQ USAF) for the purpose of developing the Air Force fiscal year employment financial
       plan.
    4.4. An additional responsibility of the CWC involves negotiating settlements with HQ USAFE man-
    agement on disputed matters of social or personal concern to individuals or groups of employees,
    which have not been resolved at the local works council level. Either an agency chief or a local works
    council may elevate such disputes to HQ USAFE for resolution.
    4.5. The right or extent of works council participation may be restricted:
       4.5.1. When plans, programs, or documents are classified for security reasons. Upon declassifica-
       tion of a planned action, or parts thereof, it is essential that works council participation be obtained
       before release to the public or, in case of a USAFE decision, to subordinate organizations. If mate-
       rials are classified FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY (FOUO), the restriction does not apply. Works
       council members entrusted with FOUO are subject to criminal prosecution under German law if
       disclosure is made to a third party.
       4.5.2. Insofar as in individual cases, the right of co-determination is incompatible with military
       interests particularly worthy of protection.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                               5


5. Authorities and Responsibilities.
   5.1. The Chief of the Agency (Dienststellenleiter) is the individual in charge of an agency at which
   a works council is or is to be established. At major installations that are defined as one works council
   agency (e.g., Spangdahlem), the Commander of the organization to which a Civilian Personnel Office
   is assigned (Support Group Commander) will normally act in this capacity. If, due to the structure/
   set-up of the works council agency as defined, an obvious individual in charge cannot be identified,
   the agency chief will be the individual designated by the Commander, United States Air Forces in
   Europe (USAFE/CC) Executive Agent for dealings with the USAFE CWC (paragraph 5.1.2.).
       5.1.1. At local agencies, the agency chief should normally assume this function personally. If the
       agency chief designates a member of his/her staff to act on his/her behalf, that person, by law
       (Section 7, FPRL (mod.), must hold a responsible position in the overall management of the
       agency and must be authorized to negotiate with the works council to the same extent as the
       agency chief. Thus, the delegate will normally be the deputy or equivalent level. Designations will
       be executed in writing and furnished to the works council concerned.
          5.1.1.1. The head of the servicing Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF) may be designated to act as
          the agency’s focal point of contact for the works council on routine day-to-day business. The
          agency chief may especially delegate authority to the Civilian Personnel Officer and/or key
          members of the CPF staff to sign written USAFE Form 179 “Notification of Proposed Person-
          nel Action” for the works council on his/her behalf. Wherever feasible, USAFE Form 179 will
          be used as the official document for written communication with the works councils under
          co-operation or co-determination procedures.
          5.1.1.2. Civilian Personnel Officers will assist and advise agency chiefs and other manage-
          ment officials or supervisory personnel in the orderly compliance with the requirements of the
          FPRL.
       5.1.2. HQ USAFE/A1K, Unit 3050, Box 25, APO AE 09094-5025, is the designated Commander,
       US Air Forces in Europe (COMUSAFE) executive agent for dealings and meetings with the
       CWC, and for acting on other personnel representation issues. In this capacity HQ USAFE/A1K:
          5.1.2.1. Maintains technical expertise on all Collective Tariff Agreement II (CTA II), FPRL,
          and related German labor law matters and provides other HQ USAFE staff offices or key rep-
          resentatives of serviced major command (MAJCOM) activities and operating-level command-
          ers with policy and guidance in these areas.
          5.1.2.2. Functions as exclusive point of contact (POC) for contacts with the CWC and exer-
          cises full Command authority on any actions subject to CWC consultation.
   5.2. Forms Prescribed USAFE Form 179, Notification of Proposed Personnel Action.



                                               JOHNNIE SEWARD, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                               Director, Manpower and Personnel
6                                                                   USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations, 11 January 1994
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Protocol of Signature re: Article 56, Paragraph 9, NATO SOFA Supplementary Agreement,
Collective Tariff Agreement II for the Employees of the Sending Forces in the Federal Republic of Ger-
many, 16 December 1966

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CWC—Command Works Councils
FOUO—For Official Use Only
FPRL—Federal Personnel Representation Law
LN—Local National
US—United States
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                              7


                                             Attachment 2

 CITATION OF THE GERMAN FEDERAL PERSONNEL REPRESENTATION LAW (FPRL)

    MODIFIED TEXT* OF THE GERMAN FEDERAL PERSONNEL REPRESENTATION
     LAW (FPRL) OF MARCH 15, 1974, WITH SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENTS UP TO
    AND INCLUDING THE AMENDMENT OF 16 JANUARY 1991, FOR APPLICATION
                            BY THE U.S. FORCES
*NOTE: This text has been composed from the German Federal Personnel Representation Law and the
Protocol of Signature regarding Section 56 (9) of the Supplementary Agreement to the NATO Status of
Forces Agreement. Sections and paragraphs of the law which either are not pertinent to the Sending States
Forces or are affected by the Protocol of Signature have been omitted or reworded as needed for practical
application. Modified text is reflected in italics.


                                          Index


PART ONE                  PERSONNEL REPRESENTATION
CHAPTER ONE               GENERAL PROVISIONS
                          Sec 1          Scope of the Law
                          Sec 2          Principle of Co-operation (Agency, Works Council and
                                         Union)
                          Sec 3          Mandatory Nature of the Law
                          Sec 4          Personal Scope of Application
                          Sec 5          Grouping of Employee
                          Sec 6          Agencies
                          Sec 7          Agency Representation
                          Sec 8          Prohibition of Hindrance or Preferential Treatment
                          Sec 9          Protection of Employees in Vocational Training
                          Sec 10         Obligation to Preserve Secrecy
                          Sec 11         (Not applicable)
CHAPTER TWO               WORKS COUNCIL, WORKS COUNCIL ABOVE THE LOCAL
                          LEVEL, JOINT WORKS COUNCIL, PERSONNEL ASSEMBLY
Title One                 Election and Composition of the Works Council
                          Sec 12         Establishment of Works Councils
                          Sec 13         Entitlement to Vote
                          Sec 14         Eligibility for Works Council Membership
                          Sec 15         Eligibility Provisions – Exceptions
                          Sec 16         Number of Works Council Members
8                                                      USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


              Sec 17           Representation of Groups
              Sec 18           Deviating Distribution of Seats to the Groups
              Sec 19           Basic Principles of Election
              Sec 20           Appointment of Election Committee
              Sec 21           Appointment of Election Committee if no Works Council
                               Exists
              Sec 22           Appointment of Election Committee by Agency Chief
              Sec 23           Tasks of the Election Committee - Replacement of the
                               Election Committee
              Sec 24           Protection of the Election - Election Costs
              Sec 25           Challenge of Election
Title Two     Term of Office of the Works Council
              Sec 26           Begin and Duration of Term of Office
              Sec 27           Regular Works Council Elections and Exceptions
              Sec 28           Exclusion of a Works Member and Dissolution of the
                               Council
              Sec 29           Expiration of Works Council Membership
              Sec 30           (Not Applicable)
              Sec 3l           Alternate Members
Title Three   Conduct of Business of the Works Council`
              Sec 32           Executive Committee and Chairperson
              Sec 33           Expanded Executive Committee
              Sec 34           Works Council Meetings
              Sec 35           Closed Sessions and Timing of Meetings
              Sec 36           Attendance of Trade Union Representatives
              Sec 37           Passing of Resolutions, Quorum
              Sec 38           Joint Resolutions - Group Resolutions
              Sec 39           Veto to Suspend Works Council Decisions
              Sec 40           Attendance of Special Representatives
              Sec 41           Meeting Minutes
              Sec 42           Rules of Procedure
              Sec 43           Works Council Consultation Hours
              Sec 44           Costs and Administrative Support
              Sec 45           Prohibition to Collect or Accept Dues
Title Four    Legal Status of Works Council Members
              Sec 46           Honorary Function, Time Off, Release from Duty
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                 9


                   Sec 47         Protection of Works Council Members in case of
                                  Termination, Transfer or Detail
Title Five         Personnel Assembly
                   Sec 48         Composition, Chair, Partial Assembly
                   Sec 49          Ordinary and Extraordinary Personnel Assemblies
                   Sec 50          Scheduling of Personnel Assemblies
                   Sec 51          Competence of Personnel Assembly
                   Sec 52          Attendance of the Agency Chief and Union Representatives
Title Six          Works Councils above the Local Level and Joint Works Councils
                   Sec 53          Establishment of Intermediate and Highest Level Works
                                   Councils
                   Sec 54          Term of Office, Organization, Conduct of Business and
                                   Status of Members
                   Sec 55          Joint Works Council
                   Sec 56          Term of Office, Organization, Conduct of Business and
                                   Status of Members
                   YOUTH/APPRENTICE REPRESENTATION AND YOUTH/
CHAPTER THREE
                   APPRENTICE ASSEMBLY
                   Sec 57          Establishment of Youth Representations
                   Sec 58          Entitlement to Vote and Eligibility for Office
                   Sec 59          Size and Composition of Youth/Apprentice Representation
                   Sec 60          Election, Term of Office and Organization of Youth/
                                   Apprentice Representation
                   Sec 61          General Tasks of the Youth/Apprentice Representation –
                                   Co-operation with the Works Council
                   Sec 62          Analogously Applicable Provisions
                   Sec 63          Youth/Apprentice Assembly
                   Sec 64          Youth/Apprentice Representations above the Local Level
CHAPTER FOUR       REPRESENTATION OF TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES
                   Sec 65          Composition, Election, Term of Office
CHAPTER FIVE       PARTICIPATION OF THE WORKS COUNCIL
Title One          General Provisions
                   Sec 66          Principles of Working Relationship between Agency Chief
                                   and Works Council
                   Sec 67          Basic Principles
                   Sec 68          General Tasks of the Works Council – Right to Information
Title Two          Types and Procedures of Co-determination and Co-operation
10                                                       USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


                Sec 69          Co-determination Procedure
                Sec 70          Works Council Right to Take the Initiative
                Sec 71          Conciliatory Committee
                Sec 72          Co-operation Procedures
                Sec 73          Shop Agreements
                Sec 74          Implementation of Decisions
Title Three     Matters Subject to Works Council Participation
                Sec 75          Co-determination in Personnel and Social Matters
                Sec 76          Co-determination in Other Matters
                Sec 77          Special Provisions for Groups of Employees – Catalogue of
                                Reasons for Non-Concurrence
                Sec 78          Matters of Co-operation – Right to be Heard
                Sec 79            Participation Regarding Terminations and Removals
                Sec 80            Participation in Tests
                Sec 81            Participation in Occupational Safety
                Participation of Higher Level Works Councils and the Joint Works
Title Four
                Council
                Sec 82            Participation Level
CHAPTER SIX     COURT DECISIONS
                Sec 83            Court Actions
                Sec 84            (Not applicable)
                PROVISIONS FOR SPECIFIC ADMINISTRATIVE BRANCHES AND
CHAPTER SEVEN
                HANDLING OF CLASSIFIED MATERIAL
                (Sections 85 through 91 are not applicable)
                Sec 92            Special Provisions for Ministry of Defense Area of
                                  Responsibility
                Sec 93            Works Council Participation in Classified Matters
PART TWO        NOT APPLICABLE
PART THREE      PENAL PROVISIONS
                                  Breach of Private Secrecy
                                  Breach of Official Secrecy
PART FOUR       FINAL PROVISIONS
                Sec 115           Election Procedure
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                                  11


                                                PART ONE
                                             CHAPTER ONE


                                        GENERAL PROVISIONS


Section 1
Works Councils shall be established in administrative units and establishment of a force or of a civilian
component as set up in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany and defined by the force con-
cerned.


Section 2
(1) Agency and works council shall co-operate in mutual confidence within the framework of law and col-
lective tariff agreements, and in co-operation with the trade unions represented in the agency, for the ben-
efit of the employees and for the accomplishment of the mission of the agency.
(2) In order that the trade unions represented in the agency may perform their duties and exercise their
rights as referred to by this law, their representatives will be given access to the agency after the chief of
the agency or his deputy has been so informed, unless access to the agency is precluded by absolutely nec-
essary operational requirements, cogent safety provisions or for reasons of military security.
(3) The functions of trade unions, particularly the protection of the interests of their members, shall not be
affected by this law.


Section 3
Works council rights may not be regulated in deviation from this law by collective tariff agreement.


Section 4
(1) Employees within the meaning of this law, shall be salaried employees (Angestellte) and wage earners
(Arbeiter) including employees undergoing vocational training.
(2) (Not applicable)
(3) Salaried employees, within the meaning of this law, are employees who are so defined by the tariff
agreement applicable to the agency or who are employed as salaried employees under overtariff condi-
tions. Employees undergoing training for a salaried employee’s occupation are also considered salaried
employees.
(4) Wage earners within the meaning of this law are employees who are so defined by the tariff agreement
applicable to the agency including those who are undergoing vocational training.
(5) The following persons shall not be considered employees within the meaning of this law:
1. Persons whose employment is predominantly based on motives of a charitable or religious nature.
12                                                                       USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


2. (Not applicable)


Section 5
Salaried employees and wage earners will form one group each.


Section 6
(1) Agencies within the meaning of this law are the individual administrative units and establishments of
a force or of a civilian component as set up in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany and
defined by the force concerned.
(2) Those headquarters which are administratively immediately subordinate to the highest service author-
ity of the force and to which other agencies are administratively subordinate shall be the intermediate
authorities. The highest service authority shall be the headquarters of a force, designated by the sending
State concerned, exercising final authority over matters that are subject to works council participation.
(3) Branch offices and parts of an agency which are located at a great geographic distance shall represent
independent agencies, if the majority of their employees who are entitled to vote so decide by secret bal-
lot. The decision shall be binding for the subsequent election and the term of office of the works council
elected.
(4) (Not applicable)


Section 7
The chief of an agency shall act on behalf of the agency. He may be represented by a person holding a
responsible position in the management of the agency and authorized to negotiate with the works council
to the same extent as the chief of the agency. At highest service authorities, he may designate the chief of
the personnel and administrative department, and at intermediate authorities, he may designate the respec-
tive department chief to act as his representative. The same applies with respect to other designated repre-
sentatives, provided the works council agrees to such designation.


Section 8
Persons exercising functions or rights under this law may not be hindered in doing so and may neither be
discriminated against nor be given preferential treatment because of their function; this applies also to
their professional development.
In order to perform its duties, the works council may be granted access to secure areas to the extent nec-
essary. Insofar as the regulations of the highest service authority of the force relating to military security
preclude or restrict such access, access shall be granted under the same conditions under which civilian
labor is allowed access.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                               13


Section 9
(1) If subsequent to the successful completion of vocational training the employer does not intend to con-
clude an indefinite employment contract with an employee (apprentice), who is a member of a works
council or a youth/apprentice representation and is undergoing vocational training under the Vocational
Training Law, the Law on Sick Nursing, or the Midwife Law, he must so inform that person in writing3
months prior to completion of the vocational training.
(2) If an employee referred to in paragraph 1 submits a written request for employment to the employer
during the last 3 months before completion of vocational training, an indefinite employment contract
between the employer and the employee undergoing vocational training will be considered as concluded
subsequent to successful completion of the vocational training.
(3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also apply, if the vocational training is successfully completed within 1 year
after expiration of the term of office of the works council or the youth/apprentice representation.
(4) Within 2 weeks after completion of the vocational training the employer may request the labor court:
1. To determine that an employment contract shall not be concluded in accordance with paragraphs 2 and
3, or
2. To dissolve the employment contract already concluded in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3, if, after
full consideration of all circumstances the employer cannot be reasonably expected to continue the
employment. The works council and, in the case of a member of a youth/apprentice representation also
the latter shall be a party in the proceedings before the labor court.
(5) Paragraphs 2 through 4 shall be applied irrespective of whether or not the employer has fulfilled his
obligation under paragraph 1.


Section 10
(1) Persons who exercise or have exercised functions or rights under this law are forbidden to communi-
cate to anyone any information on official matters and facts known to them on account of their function.
Except for Section 68, paragraph 2, sentence 3, and Section 93, the obligation to preserve silence shall not
apply to members of the works council and the youth/apprentice representation vis-à-vis the other mem-
bers, and for those persons referred to in sentence 1 vis-à-vis the concerned works council; furthermore, it
shall not apply vis-à-vis the next higher authority , the works council above the local level established at
that authority, and vis-à-vis the joint works council. Sentence 2 shall also apply to the conciliatory com-
mittee.
(2) The obligation to preserve silence does not apply to matters or facts which are publicly known or
which are of a nature not warranting such restriction.
Section 11
(Not applicable)
14                                                                       USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


                                            CHAPTER TWO
     WORKS COUNCIL, WORKS COUNCIL ABOVE THE LOCAL LEVEL, JOINT WORKS
                      COUNCIL, PERSONNEL ASSEMBLY


                                                 Title One
                            Election and Composition of the Works Council


Section 12
(1) Works councils shall be established in all agencies which employ, as a rule, at least 5 persons entitled
to vote, of whom 3 are eligible for office.
(2) Agencies in which the prerequisites of paragraph 1 are not met shall, in agreement with the higher
level works council be assigned to a neighboring agency by the highest service authority.


Section 13
(1) Entitled to vote shall be all employees who, on the day of election, have completed their 18th year of
age, unless, by court decision, they do not possess the right to vote on public matters. Employees who, on
the day of election, have been on leave without pay for more than 6 months shall not be entitled to vote.
(2) An employee detailed to another agency shall be entitled to vote in that agency as soon as the detail
has exceeded a period of 3 months; at the same time he shall lose his right to vote at the old agency. This
shall not apply to employees who are released from regular duties as members of a works council above
the local level or a joint works council. Sentence 1 also shall not apply, if it is certain that the employee
will return to his old agency within another period of 6 months.
(3) Employees undergoing vocational training shall be entitled to vote only at their parent agency.


Section 14
(1) Eligible as candidates shall be all employees entitled to vote who, on the day of election,
1. Have worked in the area of jurisdiction of their highest service authority for 6 months, and
2. Have been employed with administrative units and establishments of the forces and their civilian com-
ponents for 1 year.
An employee who, by court decision, does not possess civic rights shall not be eligible as candidate.
(2) Employees who work regularly less than 18 hours per week shall not be eligible as candidates. The
employees referred to in Section 13, paragraph 3, shall not be eligible for election to a works council
above the local level.
(3) The persons referred to in Section 7, as well as employees who are authorized to make independent
decisions in personnel matters of the agency, shall not be eligible for the election to the works council of
their agency.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                                  15


Section 15
(1) If the highest service authority or the agency has been in existence for less than 1 year, the prerequisite
of Section 14, paragraph 1, number 1 shall not apply for eligibility to office.
(2) The prerequisite of Section 14, paragraph 1, number 2, shall not apply where there are not at least five
times as many eligible employees of each group as shall be elected under Sections 16 and 17.


Section 16
(1) The works council shall consist, in agencies employing as a rule:


                  5 to 20   employees entitled to vote,     of one person,
                 21 to 50   employees entitled to vote,     of three members,
               51 to 150    employees entitled to vote,     of five members,
              151 to 300    employees entitled to vote,     of seven members,
              301 to 600    employees entitled to vote,     of nine members,
             601 to 1,000   employees entitled to vote,     of eleven member.


The number of members shall be increased in agencies employing 1,001 to 5,000 persons by two for each
1,000 employees or part thereof, and in agencies employing 5,001 and more persons by two for each
2,000 employees or part thereof.
(2) The maximum number of members shall be 31.


Section 17
(1) If members of different groups are employed in the agency, each group must be represented in the
works council proportionate to its strength, provided the council consists of at least three members. In the
case of equal group strength, decision shall be made by lot. If a group does not make use of its right to be
represented in the works council, the group shall lose its claim to representation.
(2) The election committee shall compute the distribution of seats among the groups in accordance with
the principles of proportional representation (“Verhältniswahl”).
(3) One group shall be allotted at least:


if less than 51 members of the group                one representative
if 51 to 200 members of the group                   two representatives
if 201 to 600 members of the group                  three representatives
601 to 1,000 members of the group                   four representatives
1,001 to 3,000 members of the group                 five representatives
3,001 and more members of the group                 six representatives
16                                                                       USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


(4) (Not applicable)
(5) A group consisting normally of not more than five employees shall be given a representation only if it
comprises at least one twentieth of the employees of the agency. If a group is not given a representation
but the election is carried out by groups (Gruppenwahl), any employee of the group not represented may
join the other group by making a statement to that effect to the election committee.
(6) The works council should be composed of representatives of the various job categories.
(7) Both sexes should be represented in the works council proportionate of their numbers


Section 18
(1) The distribution of the members of the works council between the groups may be regulated in devia-
tion from Section 17, provided each group so decides by separate secret ballot prior to the new election.
(2) For each group, also employees of the other group may be nominated. The elected candidates shall be
considered council representatives of the group for which they were nominated. The second sentence
shall also apply to alternate members.


Section 19
(1) The works council shall be elected by secret and direct election.
(2) If the works council consists of more than one person, salaried employees and wage earners shall each
elect their representative (Section 17) by separate ballot, unless the employees of each group who are enti-
tled to vote have decided by separate and secret ballot, prior to the new election, that a joint election will
be held. The decision requires the majority of votes of all employees entitled to vote in each group.
(3) The election shall be carried out in accordance with the principles of proportional representation. If
only one slate is submitted, election shall be by individual candidates (Personenwahl). In agencies where
the works council consists of one representative, he shall be elected by simple majority vote. The same
applies to an employee group that is entitled only to one representative in the works council.
(4) The employees entitled to vote and the trade unions represented in the agency may submit slates for
the election of the works council. Each slate of the employees must be signed by at least one-twentieth of
the number of group members entitled to vote, but not less than a minimum of three persons entitled to
vote. In any case, the signature of 50 members of a group entitled to vote shall suffice. Employees not eli-
gible for office in accordance with Section 14, paragraph 3 may not submit or sign any slates.
(5) If joint elections have been decided upon, each slate of the employees must be signed by at least
one-twentieth of the employees entitled to vote; paragraph 4., sentences 2 through 4, shall apply mutatis
mutandis.
(6) If, in the case of a joint election, employees of one group are nominated for the other group, the slate
must be signed by at least one-tenth of the number of group employees entitled to vote of the group for
which they are nominated. Paragraph 4, sentences 3 and 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(7) Any one employee can be nominated on one slate only.
(8) If in an agency a works council does not exist, the trade unions represented in the agency may submit
slates for election of the works council. Paragraphs 4 through 6 shall not be applied to these slates.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                                  17


(9) Each slate of a trade union must be signed by two designated representatives; the designated represen-
tatives must be employees of the agency, and be members of a trade union represented in the agency. If
questions arise concerning the designation, the election committee may require that the trade union con-
firm the designation.


Section 20
(1) No later than eight weeks before the expiration of its term of office, a works council shall appoint 3
employees entitled to vote as the election committee, and one of them as chairperson. If members of dif-
ferent groups are represented in the agency, each group must be represented in the election committee.
One representative each of the trade unions represented in the agency is entitled to participate, in an advi-
sory capacity, in the meetings of the election committee.
(2) If six weeks before the expiration of a works council’s term of office no election committee exists, the
chief of the agency, upon request of at least three employees entitled to vote or upon request of a trade
union represented in the agency, shall convene a personnel assembly for the election of an election com-
mittee. Paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis. The personnel assembly shall elect a chairperson of the
assembly.


Section 21
If in an agency which meets the prerequisites of Section 12, a works council does not exist, the chief of
the agency shall convene a personnel assembly for the election of an election committee. Section 20, para-
graph 2, sentence 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis.


Section 22
If no personnel assembly (Section 20, paragraph 2 and Section 21) is held or if the personnel assembly
does not elect an election committee, the chief of the of the agency, upon request of at least three employ-
ees entitles to vote or upon request of a trade union represented in the agency, shall appoint the election
committee.


Section 23
(1) The election committee shall initiate the election immediately; it should be held after six weeks at the
latest. If the election committee does not fulfill this obligation, the chief of the agency, upon request of at
least three employees entitled to vote or upon request of a trade union represented in the agency, shall con-
vene a personnel assembly for the election of a new election committee. Section 20, paragraph 2, sentence
3, and Section 22 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(2) Immediately after conclusion of the election, the election committee shall, publicly, count the votes;
prepare a protocol on the result of the election and posting a notice of the result for information of the
employees of the agency. The chief of the agency and the trade unions represented in the agency shall
receive a copy of the election protocol.
18                                                                         USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


Section 24
(1) No one may obstruct or interfere with the election of a works council in a manner which is contra
bonos mores. In particular, no person entitled to vote may be restricted in his right to vote or in his right
to be elected. Section 47, paragraphs 1 and 2, sentences 1 and 2 shall apply mutadis mutandis to the mem-
bers of the election committee and to candidates.
(2) The costs of the election shall be borne by the agency. Loss of work hours necessitated by voting,
attendance of personnel assemblies (Sections 20 through 23), or functioning in the election committee,
shall not result in loss of pay. Section 44, paragraph 1, sentence 2, and Section 46, paragraph 2, sentence
2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the members of the election committee.


Section 25
A group of at least three employees entitled to vote, any trade union represented in the agency, or the chief
of the agency, may contest the election at a labor court within a period of twelve workdays from the day
of publication of election result, if substantial provisions concerning voting entitlement, eligibility for
election, or the election procedure, have been violated and no correction has been made, unless such vio-
lation could not have altered or affected the election result.


                                                  Title Two
                                   Term of Office of the Works Council


Section 26
The works council’s regular term of office shall be four years. The term of office shall commence on the
day of election or, if a works council still exists on that day, on the expiration of the latter works council’s
term of office. It shall expire not later than on 31 May of the year in which the regular elections of the
works councils, in accordance with Section 27, paragraph 1 are held.


Section 27
(1) The regular works council elections shall be held every four years during the period 1 March through
31 May.
(2) Outside this period, the works council shall be elected if:
1. After twenty-four months from the day of election, the number of regular employees has increased or
dropped by one-half, but at least 50, or
2. The total number of works council members, even though all alternate members have assumed office,
has dropped by more than one-fourth of the prescribed number, or
3. The works council has decided to resign by majority vote of its members, or
4. The works council has been dissolved by court decision, or
5. A works council does not exist in the agency.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                                    19


(3) In the cases of paragraph 2., numbers 1 through 3, the works council shall continue to function until a
new works council has been elected.
(4) If an employee group in the agency, which had so far been represented in the works council, is no
longer represented by a member of the works council, this group shall elect new members.
(5) If a works council has been elected outside the time period established for regular works council elec-
tions, the next election of that council shall be held during the next time period for regular works council
elections, which follows the election of the council. If, at the beginning of the time period for regular
works council elections, the term of office of the works council has been less than one year, the works
council shall be newly elected during the next succeeding period for regular council elections.


Section 28
(1) Upon request of one-fourth of the employees entitled to vote, or of a trade union represented in the
agency, the labor court may decide to exclude a member from the works council or to dissolve the works
council, because of gross neglect of legal rights, or gross violation of legal obligations. For the same rea-
sons, the works council may request the exclusion of the one of its members. The chief of the agency may
request the exclusion of a member from the works council or the dissolution of the works council, on the
grounds of gross violation of legal obligations.
(2) If the works council has been dissolved, the presiding judge of the labor court shall appoint an election
committee. It shall initiate a new election without delay. Pending the new election the election committee
shall assume the rights and duties vested in the works council by virtue of this law.


Section 29
(1) Membership in a works council shall end by:
1. Expiration of the term of office,
2. Resignation from office,
3. Termination of employment,
4. Separation from the agency,
5. Loss of eligibility for election,
6. Court decision pursuant to Section 28,
7. Establishment of the fact that the elected person was not eligible for election, after expiration of the
time limit in Section 25.
(2) Membership in the works council shall not be affected by a change of the group to which the member
belongs; the member shall remain the representative of the group which elected him.


Section 30 (Not applicable)
20                                                                       USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


Section 31
(1) If a member leaves the works council, an alternate member shall take his place. The same applies
whenever a member of the works council is temporarily prevented from performing his functions.
(2) Alternate members shall be taken, in proper order, from among the non-elected employees nominated
on the same slates as were the members to be substituted. If the member who leaves the council, or is pre-
vented from attending his functions, was elected by simple majority vote, the nonelected employee with
the next highest number of votes shall accede as alternate member.
(3) Section 29, paragraph 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to a change of the group to which the alternate
member belongs, before the alternate member accedes as regular member of the works council.
(4) No alternate members shall accede in the case of Section 27, paragraph 2, number 4.


                                                Title Three
                               Conduct of Business of the Works Council


Section 32
(1) The works council shall form an executive committee from among its members. The executive com-
mittee shall consist of one member of each employee group represented in the works council. The repre-
sentatives of each group shall elect their member of the executive committee. The executive committee
shall conduct the daily business of the works council.
(2) The works council shall determine, by simple majority vote, which member of the executive commit-
tee will take the chair of the works council. At the same time, it shall determine the representation of the
chairperson by his deputies. In this connection, the group to which the chairperson does not belong shall
be considered, unless the representatives of that group waive their respective entitlement.
(3) The chairperson shall represent the works council within the scope of the decisions made by the coun-
cil. In matters which concern only one group, the chairperson - unless he belongs to the same group - shall
represent the works council together with a member of the executive committee belonging to that group.


Section 33
If the works council consists of eleven or more members, it shall, by simple majority vote, elect from
among its members two additional members into the executive committee. If members of the works coun-
cil have been elected from slates of different designations and if there are no members of the executive
committee from the slate that received the second largest number of votes - but at least one-third of all the
votes cast by the employees of the agency - one of the additional executive committee members shall be
elected from this slate.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                               21


Section 34
(1) No later than six workdays from the day of election, the election committee shall convoke the mem-
bers of the works council to hold the prescribed elections and shall chair the constitutional meeting until
the council has elected a person to be in charge of the election (“Wahlleiter”) from among its members.
(2) Subsequent meetings shall be convened by the chairman of the works council. He shall establish the
agenda and preside over the proceedings. The chairman shall invite the members of the works council to
the meetings in time and inform them of the agenda. Sentence 3 shall also apply to the invitation of the
representation of the severely handicapped employees, the members of the youth/apprentice representa-
tion and the representatives of the temporary employees, inasmuch as they are entitled to participate in the
meeting.
(3) Upon request of one-fourth of the members of the works council, the majority of the representatives of
one group, the chief of the agency, the representatives of the severely handicapped employees in matters
that specifically concern handicapped employees, the majority of the members of the youth/apprentice
representation in matters specifically concerning employees specified in Section 57, the chairman shall
convene a meeting and shall place on the agenda the matter on which the discussion has been requested.
(4) The chief of the agency shall participate in council meetings which are convened upon his request, and
in meetings to which he is specifically invited.


Section 35
The meetings of the works council shall not be public; as a rule they shall be held during hours of work.
The works council, when convening meetings, shall give due consideration to the operational require-
ments of the agency. The chief of the agency shall be notified in advance of the time of the meeting.


Section 36
Upon request of one-fourth of the members or of the majority of one group of the works council, a repre-
sentative of a trade union represented in the works council may attend the meetings in an advisory capac-
ity; in this case, the trade union shall be notified in due course of the time and agenda of the meeting.


Section 37
(1) The decisions of the works council shall be made by simple majority vote of the members present.
Abstention shall be deemed rejection. In case of parity of votes, a request is disapproved.
(2) A quorum of the works council shall require the presence of at least one-half of the council members;
deputizing by alternate members shall be permissible.


Section 38
(1) The works council shall deliberate and decide jointly on matters of common concern to salaried
employees and wage earners.
22                                                                       USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


(2) On matters concerning one employee group only, the matter shall be jointly deliberated in the works
council but only the group representatives are authorized to render a decision. This shall not apply, how-
ever, to a group which is not represented in the works council.
(3) (Not applicable)


Section 39
(1) If the majority of the representatives of one group or of the youth/apprentice representation considers
a decision of the works council to seriously prejudice important interests of the employees whom they
represent, the decision shall be suspended, upon their request, for a period of six working days from the
date the decision was made. During this period, attempts should be made to reach an agreement; assis-
tance may be given by trade unions represented in the works council or in the youth/apprentice represen-
tation, if appropriate. The suspension of a decision according to sentence 1 shall not result in the extension
of any time period.
(2) After expiration of the time period, a new decision shall be made regarding the matter. If the first deci-
sion is confirmed, the request for suspension may not be repeated.
(3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis when the severely handicapped employee representa-
tive considers a decision of the works council to seriously prejudice important interests of the severely
handicapped employees.


Section 40
(1) A representative of and nominated by the youth/apprentice representation and the severely handi-
capped employee representative may participate, in an advisory capacity, in all meetings of the works
council. In discussions of matters concerning specifically employees mentioned in Section 57, the entire
youth/apprentice representation may participate in an advisory capacity. In the case of decisions of the
works council which predominantly affect employees mentioned in Section 57, the youth/apprentice rep-
resentatives shall be entitled to vote.
(2) The representatives specified in Section 65, paragraph 1, may participate, in an advisory capacity, in
the discussion of matters that particularly concern the interests of the temporary employees.


Section 41
(1) Minutes shall be taken on all discussions of the works council; at minimum they shall include the
wording of the decisions and the number of votes by which they were adopted. The minutes shall be
signed by the chairman and another member. An attendance list signed personally by each participant
shall be attached to the minutes.
(2) If the chief of the agency or representatives of a trade union have participate din the meeting, a copy
of the appropriate part of the minutes shall be submitted to them. Objections to the minutes shall be made
immediately in writing and attached to the minutes.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                              23


Section 42
Other provisions on the conduct of business may be established in rules of procedure to be determined by
the works council by simple majority vote of its members.


Section 43
The works council may establish consultation hours during hours of work. Time and place shall be
decided in agreement with the chief of the agency.


Section 44
(1) Costs arising from the activities of the works council shall be borne by the agency. In case of duty
travel necessary for the performance of their functions, members of the works council shall be paid travel
expenses pursuant to the tariff provisions governing travel expenses for salaried civilian employees of the
force, but at not less than the second highest rate.
(2) For the meetings, consultation hours, and the conduct of regular business, the agency shall provide the
necessary space, office supplies and clerical support.
(3) Suitable space for announcements and the posting of notices shall be made available to the works
council in all agencies.


Section 45
For its purposes, the works council may not collect or accept dues from the employees.


                                                Title Four
                               Legal Status of Works Council Members


Section 46
(1) The members of the works council shall perform their office without remuneration in an honorary
capacity.
(2) Loss of working time that is necessary for the orderly performance of works council functions shall
not result in a reduction of pay. If, in the performance of their functions, works council members are kept
occupied beyond regular work hours, they shall be given an appropriate amount of compensatory time off.
(3) Members of the works council shall be released from their regular duty if and to the extent - depending
on the size and type of the agency - this is required for the proper performance of their functions. When
selecting members for release from regular duty, the works council must give first consideration to the
members of the executive committee elected pursuant to Section 32, paragraph 1, thereafter to the addi-
tional members elected pursuant to Section 33, and finally to the other members. In case of the release of
further members, the votes corresponding to the individual election slates must be given consideration by
applying the maximum number system (“Höchstzahlverfahren”) if the works council’s election was based
24                                                                       USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


on the principles of proportional representation (“Verhältniswahl”) (Section 19, paragraph 3, sentence 1);
in doing so, the number of the members of the executive committee released pursuant to sentence 2 has to
be deducted from the number of releases authorized per slate. In case of a personal election (“Personen-
wahl”) (Section 19, paragraph 3, sentence 2, the order of precedence of further members to be released
from regular duty shall be determined by the number of votes cast for them at the works council election.
If the members of the groups represented in the works council have been elected partly in accordance with
the principles of proportional representation and partly on the basis of individual candidates and further
members are to be released from regular duty, the groups must be given consideration according to the
number of their members according to the maximum number system; within the groups, further releases
will be determined, by applying sentence 3 mutatis mutandis and sentence 4, depending on the election
procedure,. Release from regular duty shall not result in the impairment of the professional advancement
of the works council member.
(4) In accordance with paragraph 3 the following full time releases from their regular duties shall be
granted in agencies employing as a rule:


  300 to        600 employees      one member          5,001 to      6,000 employees      seven members,
  601 to      1,000 employees      two members,        6,001 to      7,000 employees      eight members,
1,001 to      2,000 employees      three members,      7,001 to      8,000 employees      nine members,
2,001 to      3,000 employees      four members        8,001 to      9,000 employees      ten members,
3,001 to      4,000 employees      five members        9,001 to     10,000 employees      eleven members.
4,001 to      5,000 employees      six members,


In agencies with more than 10,000 employees, one additional member shall be released for each addi-
tional 2,000 employees or a part thereof. Deviations from sentences 1 and 2 are authorized in agreement
between the works council and the chief of the agency.
(5) Works council members who are released full time from their regular duty shall be paid a monthly
expense allowance. Works council members who are released part time, but not less than half of their reg-
ular working time, shall be paid one half of the expense allowance in accordance with sentence 1. The
Federal Government determines the amount of expense allowance by means of a legal ordinance which is
not subject to the approval of the Upper House of Parliament (“Bundesrat”).
(6) Works council members shall be released from duty with pay for attendance of training and educa-
tional courses if they provide knowledge necessary for the performance of functions in the works council.
(7) Without prejudice to paragraph 6, each member of the works council - during his regular term of office
- shall be entitled to release from duty with pay for a total of 3 weeks for attendance of training or educa-
tion courses, which are recognized as suitable courses by the Federal Central Office for Political Educa-
tion. Employees who assume the office of a works council member for the first time and have not been
members of the youth/apprentices representation before shall be entitled to a total of 4 weeks in accor-
dance with sentence 1.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                               25


Section 47
(1) Extraordinary notice for termination of employment to members of the works council who are in an
employment status shall require the approval of the works council. If the works council refuses its
approval or does not comment within 3 workdays after receipt of the request, the labor court may - upon
request of the chief of the agency - grant approval in lieu of the works council, if taking all the circum-
stances into account, the termination of employment with extraordinary notice is justified. The employee
concerned shall be a party in the proceedings before the labor court.
(2) Involuntary transfer or detail of members of the works council is not authorized unless inevitable for
important operational reasons, also giving due consideration to the works council membership. Reassign-
ment within the same agency connected with a change of the permanent duty station shall also be consid-
ered a transfer within the meaning of sentence 1. The commuting area within the meaning of the legal
ordinance on moving expenses shall be considered to belong to the duty station. The transfer or detail of
works council members shall require the approval of the works council.
(3) Paragraphs 1 and 2, and Sections 15 and 16 of the Protection against Dismissal Act shall not apply to
employees undergoing vocational training. Paragraphs1 and 2 also shall not apply in the case of transfer
or detail of these employees to another agency after completion of vocational training. The works council
membership of employees referred to in sentence 1 shall be suspended without prejudice to Section 29 for
the time they are transferred or detailed to another agency in accordance with the requirements of their
training.


                                                 Title Five
                                           Personnel Assembly


Section 48
(1) The personnel assembly shall consist of the employees of the agency. The chairman of the works
council shall preside over the assembly. It is not public.
(2) Sectional meetings shall be conducted, if a joint assembly of all employees cannot be held because of
operational requirements.


Section 49
(1) Once in every 6 calendar months, the works council shall present an activity report at a personnel
assembly.
(2) The works council shall be entitled and, upon request of the chief of the agency or of one-fourth of the
employees entitled to vote, be required to convene a personnel assembly and to place the subject
requested for discussion on the agenda.
(3) The works council shall - upon request of a trade union represented in the agency - convene a person-
nel assembly pursuant to paragraph 1 within 12 workdays after receipt of the request, if no personnel
assembly or no sectional meetings were held within the preceding 6 calendar months.
26                                                                       USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


Section 50
(1) The personnel assemblies referred to in Section 49, paragraph 1, and those convened upon request of
the chief of the agency, shall be held during hours of work, unless operational requirements necessitate
another arrangement. Participation in personnel assemblies shall not result in loss of pay. If personnel
assemblies as described in sentence 1, for operational reason, must be conducted outside duty hours, the
participants shall be granted an appropriate amount of compensatory time off. Travel expenses resulting
from attendance of personnel assemblies, as described in sentence 1, shall be reimbursed in accordance
with tariff provisions governing travel expenses for civilian employees of the force.
(2) Other personnel assemblies shall be held outside hours of work. Deviation from this provision shall be
permissible in agreement with the chief of the agency.


Section 51
The personnel assembly may submit proposals to the works council and may take a stand on the council’s
decisions. The assembly shall be entitled to discuss all matters that directly concern the agency or its
employees, particularly tariff and social matters as well as questions concerning the development of
women and the compatibility of family and job. Section 66, paragraph 2, and Section 67, paragraph 1,
sentence 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the personnel assembly.


Section 52
(1) Representatives of all the trade unions represented in the agency shall be entitled to participate in the
personnel assembly in an advisory capacity. The works council shall inform the trade unions mentioned in
sentence 1 of the convening of a personnel assembly. A designated member of the works council above
the local level or the joint works council as well as a representative of the authority at which the works
council above the local level exists, may participate in the personnel assembly.
(2) The chief of the agency may participate in the personnel assembly. He shall participate in assemblies
which have been convened upon his request or to which he has been specifically invited.


                                                  Title Six
                       Higher Level Works Councils and Joint Works Councils


Section 53
(1) For the area of jurisdiction of commands with several levels of administration, district works councils
shall be established at the intermediate command authorities and head works councils at the highest ser-
vice authorities.
The highest service authority shall be the headquarters of a force, designated by the sending State con-
cerned, exercising final authority over matters that are subject to works council participation. Those
headquarters which are administratively immediately subordinate to the highest service authority of a
force and to which other agencies are administratively subordinate shall be the intermediate authorities.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                                27


(2) The members of the district works council shall be elected by the employees working within the scope
of jurisdiction of the intermediate command authority, whereas the members of the head works council
shall be elected by the employees working within the scope of jurisdiction of the highest service authority.
(3) Sections 12 through 16, Section 17, paragraphs 1, 2, 6, and 7, Sections 18 through 21, and 23 thru 25
shall apply mutatis mutandis. Section 14, paragraph 3 shall apply to the employees of the authority at
which the works council above the local level is to be established. No personnel assembly shall be held for
the appointment of the district or head election committee; instead, the chief of the authority at which the
works council above the local level is to be established shall exercise the right of appointing the election
committee pursuant to Section 20, paragraph 2., Sections 21 and 23.
(4) If, in a command, the local works councils and the higher level works councils are elected simulta-
neously, the election committees existing at the agencies shall carry out the election of the works councils
above the local level on behalf of the district or head election committee; otherwise, on request of the dis-
trict or head election committee, the works council or, if none exists, the chiefs of the agencies shall
appoint the local election committees for the election of works councils above the local level.
(5) Each employee group shall be given at least one representative in the works councils above the local
level. If the works council above the local level consists of more than nine members, each employee
group shall be given at least two representatives. Section 17, paragraph 5 shall apply mutatis mutandis.


Section 54
(1) Sections 26 through 39, Section 40, paragraph1, Sections 41, 42, 44, 45, 46, paragraphs 1 through 3,
and 5 through 7, and Section 47 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the higher level works councils unless
indicated otherwise in paragraph 2.
(2) Section 34, paragraph 1 shall apply with the proviso that the members of the works council above the
local level shall be convoked to hold the prescribed election not later than 12 workdays after the day of
election.


Section 55
In the cases of Section 6, paragraph 3 a joint works council shall be established in addition to the individ-
ual works council.


Section 56
Section 53, paragraphs 2 and 3, and Section 54, paragraph 1, first half of sentence 1 shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, to the joint works council.
28                                                                      USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


                                           CHAPTER THREE
     YOUTH AND APPRENTICE REPRESENTATION AND YOUTH AND APPRENTICE
                               ASSEMBLY


Section 57
Youth/apprentice representations shall be established in agencies in which works councils exist, and
employing, as a rule, at least five employees who are under 18 years of age (juvenile employees), or who
undergo vocational training and have not yet completed the 25th year of age.


Section 58
(1) All employees referred to in Section 57 shall be entitled to vote. Section 13, paragraph 1, shall apply
mutatis mutandis.
(2) Employees who on the day of election are not yet 26 years of age shall be eligible for election. Section
14, paragraph 1 sentence 1, number 1, and sentence 2, paragraphs 2 and 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis.


Section 59
(1) The youth/apprentice representation shall consist in agencies employing as a rule:


                                Employees referred to   Number of
                                   in Section 57      Representative(s)
                                      5 to 20                1
                                      21 to 50               3
                                     51 to 200               5
                                     201 to 300               7
                                    301 to 1000              11
                                  More than 1000             15


(2) The youth/apprentice representation should consist of employees named in Section 57 representing
the various job categories found in the agency.
(3) The sexes should be represented in the youth/apprentice representation proportionate to their numeri-
cal strength.


Section 60
(1) The works council shall appoint the election committee and its chairperson. Section 19, paragraphs 1,
3, 4, sentence 1, paragraphs 5, 7 and 9; Section 20, paragraph 1, sentence 3 and 4; Section 24, paragraph
1, sentences 1 and 2, paragraph 2; and Section 25 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                                   29


(2) The regular term of office of the youth/apprentice representation shall be 2 years. It shall commence
on the day of the election, or, if a youth/apprentice representation still exists at that time, upon the expira-
tion of its term of office. The regular elections of the youth/apprentice representation shall be held every
2 years during the period of 1 March through 31 May. The term of office shall expire no later than on 31
May of the year in which the regular elections of the youth/apprentice representation are held in accor-
dance with sentence 3. Section 27, paragraph 2, numbers 2 through 5, paragraphs 3 and 5, shall apply,
mutatits mutandis to the election of the youth/apprentice representation outside this period.
(3) If a youth/apprentice representation consists of three or more members, it shall elect a chairman and
his deputy from among its members.


Section 61
(1) General tasks of the youth/apprentice representation are:
1. To propose actions to the works council that are for the benefit of the employees referred to in Section
57, particularly in matters of vocational training,
2. To ensure that the laws, regulations, provisions for accident prevention, collective tariff agreements,
shop agreements and administrative instructions that are in force for the benefit of the employees referred
to in Section 57, are implemented,
3. To receive proposals and grievances from employees referred to in Section 57, particularly in matters
concerning vocational training, and - if they appear justified - to see that the works council works for their
redress; the youth/apprentice representation shall inform the employees concerned of the status and of the
result of the negotiations.
(2) The co-operation of the youth/apprentice representation with the works council shall be governed by
Section 34, paragraph 3, and Sections 39 and 40, paragraph 1.
(3) To enable it to carry out its functions, the works council shall keep the youth/apprentice representation
informed comprehensively and in due time. The youth/apprentice representation may request the works
council to make available all documents necessary for the performance of its functions.
(4) The works council shall call in the youth/apprentice representation to the discussions between the
chief of the agency and the works council according to Section 66, paragraph 1, if matters specifically
concerning employees referred to in Section 57 are to be discussed.
(5) After informing the works council, the youth/apprentice representation may convene meetings; Sec-
tion 34, paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatits mutdandis. A works council member designated by the
works council may participate in the meetings of the youth/apprentice representation.


Section 62
Sections 43 through 45, Section 46, paragraphs 1, 2, 3, sentences 1 and 6, paragraphs 6, 7, and Section 67,
paragraph 1, sentence 3 shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the youth/apprentice representation. Section 47
shall apply, mutatis mutandis, with the proviso that the extraordinary notice for termination of employ-
ment, the transfer and the detail of members of the youth/apprentice representation shall require the
approval of the works council. Section 47, paragraphs 1, 2, sentence 1 and 2 shall apply, mutatis mutandis,
to members of the election committee and candidates.
30                                                                        USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008



Section 63
The youth/apprentice representation shall convene a youth/ apprentice assembly once every calendar year.
If possible, it shall be held immediately before or after an ordinary personnel assembly. The chairperson
of the youth/ apprentice representation shall preside over the assembly. The chairperson of the works
council or another member designated by the works council should participate in the youth/ apprentice
assembly. The provisions concerning personnel assemblies shall be applied mutatis mutandis. In addition
to the youth/ apprentice assembly referred to in sentence 1, another assembly - not convened upon the
request of the chief of the agency - may be held during hours of work.


Section 64
(1) For the area of jurisdiction of commands with various levels of administration - where works councils
above the local level exist - district youth/ apprentice representations shall be established at the intermedi-
ate command authorities, and head youth/ apprentice representations at the highest service authorities.
Section 53, paragraphs 2 and 4, and Sections 57 through 62 shall apply mutatis mutandis to youth/ appren-
tice representations above the local level.
(2) In the cases of Section 6, paragraph 3, a joint youth/ apprentice representation shall be established in
addition to the individual youth/ apprentice representations. Paragraph 1, sentence 2 shall apply mutatis
mutandis.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                               31


                                           CHAPTER FOUR
                       REPRESENTATION OF TEMPORARY EMPLOYEES


Section 65
(1) If, during a works council’s term of office, the number of employees increases temporarily by more
than 20 persons whose employment probably will not exceed 6 months, the temporary employees shall
elect by secret ballot:


for 21 to 50 temporary employees                   one representative,

for 51 to 100 temporary employees                  two representatives,

for more than 100 temporary employees              three representatives.


The works council shall appoint the election committee and its chairperson. The provisions of Section 13,
paragraphs 1 and 3, Sections 14, 17, paragraphs 6 and 7, Sections 19, 24, paragraph 1, sentences 1 and 2,
paragraph 2, and Section 25 shall apply to the election of the representatives, with the exception of the
provisions governing the length of employment in the area of jurisdiction of the highest service authority
and with administrative units and establishments of the forces and their civilian components.
(2) The term of office of the representatives referred to in paragraph 1, shall end upon termination of
employment of the temporary employees, or when the prerequisites for their election cease to exist. Sec-
tion 26, sentence 2, Section 27, paragraph 2, numbers 2 through 4, paragraph 3, and Sections 28, 29 and
31 shall apply mutatis mutdandis.
(3) Sections 43 through 45, Section 46, paragraphs 1, 2, 3, sentence 1, and Section 67, paragraph 1, sen-
tence 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the representatives referred to in paragraph 1.
(4) The representatives referred to in paragraph 1 shall participate in the works council meetings in accor-
dance with Section 40, paragraph 2.
32                                                                         USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


                                              CHAPTER FIVE
                            PARTICIPATION OF THE WORKS COUNCIL


                                                  Title One
                                             General Provisions


Section 66
(1) The chief of the agency and the works council should meet at least once each month for discussion. At
these meetings the organization of operations, and particularly all matters essentially affecting the
employees, shall be discussed among other things. On questions in dispute, both parties shall negotiate in
good will to achieve agreement, and make proposals for the settlement of controversies.
(2) The agency and the works council shall refrain from any action that may cause disturbance of work
and peace at the agency. In particular, the agency and the works council shall refrain from any industrial
actions against each other. Labor disputes between parties eligible for collective bargaining shall not be
affected by this provision.
(3) Appeals to authorities outside the agency may be made only if agreement within the agency could not
be reached.


Section 67
(1) The agency and the works council shall ensure just and fair treatment of all employees in the agency
and, in particular, that there is no discrimination against employees because of descent, creed, nationality,
origin, political or union activities or views, or sex. In this connection, they must conduct themselves in
such a manner that the confidence of the employees in their impartiality and neutrality when carrying out
their functions is not affected. Within the agency, both the chief of the agency and the works council shall
refrain from any partisan political activities; the dealing with tariff and social matters shall not be affected
hereby.
(2) Employees carrying out functions under this law also shall not be restricted within the agency in activ-
ities for their trade union.
(3) The works council shall stand up for the protection of the employees’ freedom to organize.


Section 68
(1) General tasks of the works council are:
1. To propose actions which serve the agency and its members;
2. To ensure that the applicable laws, regulations, collective tariff agreements, shop agreements, and
administrative instructions which are for the benefit of the employees, are observed;
3. To receive proposals and grievances from employees and, if they appear justified, to work for their
redress through negotiation with the chief of the agency;
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                                  33


4. To promote the integration and vocational development of severely handicapped persons, and of other
persons needing protection, particularly elderly persons;
5. To propose measures for the vocational development of the severely handicapped;
6. To promote the integration of foreign employees into the agency, and the understanding between them
and the German employees;
7 To closely co-operate with the youth/apprentice representation for the purpose of promoting the inter-
ests of the employees referred to in Section 57.
(2) For the purpose of carrying out its function, the works council shall be informed comprehensively and
in due time. The records necessary for carrying out its functions shall be made available to the works
council unless they are classified for security reasons. Official personnel folders may only be perused with
the employee’s consent, and only by members of the works council designated by the employee. Perfor-
mance appraisals shall be presented to the works council at the request of the employee.


                                                  Title Two
                     Types and Procedures of Co-determination and Co-operation


Section 69
(1) To the extent that an action is subject to the works council’s co-determination, it may only be taken
with the council’s concurrence.
(2) The chief of the agency shall inform the works council of the planned action and request its concur-
rence. The works council may demand that the chief of the agency justify the planned action; except in
personnel matters the works council may also demand a written rationale. The decision of the works
council on the requested concurrence shall be conveyed to the chief of the agency within 10 workdays.
The chief of the agency may, in urgent matters, reduce this period to 3 workdays. The action shall be con-
sidered approved if the concurrence is not refused in writing by the works council within the mentioned
period, by stating the reasons. If complaints and allegations of a factual nature are made in this connection
which adversely affect an employee or may be of disadvantage to him, the employee shall be given the
opportunity to comment; the comments shall be made a matter of record.
(3) If no agreement is reached, the chief of the agency or the works council may submit the matter through
official channels within 6 workdays to the higher authorities where works councils above the local level
exist. Paragraph 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis. If, in accordance with sentence 1, the chief of the agency
submits the matter to the higher authority, he shall so inform the works council by stating his reasons.
(4) If the highest service authority and the head works council established at its level cannot reach an
agreement, the conciliatory committee (Section 71) shall decide; in the matters of Section 77, paragraph
2, it determines whether or not a reason for nonconcurrence exists. The conciliatory committee shall
decide within 2 months of the declaration of one of the parties requesting a decision of the conciliatory
committee. In the matters of Section 76, the conciliatory committee passes a recommendation to the high-
est service authority if it does not concur with the opinion of the highest service authority. The highest ser-
vice authority subsequently renders a final decision.
34                                                                        USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


(5) In the case of actions which, owing to the nature of the matter involved, cannot be postponed, the chief
of the agency may make preliminary arrangements pending the final decision. He shall inform the works
council of such a preliminary arrangement, stating the reasons, and shall initiate or continue the procedure
pursuant to paragraphs 2 through 4 without delay.


Section 70
(1) If the works council requests an action which is subject to its co-determination according to Section
75, paragraph 3, numbers 1 through 6 and 11 through 17 (except 13) , it shall propose such action in writ-
ing to the chief of the agency. If the latter does not consent to the request, the subsequent procedure is gov-
erned by Section 69, paragraphs 3 and 4.
(2) If the works council requests an action that is subject to co-determination according to provisions
other than those in paragraph 1, sentence 1, it shall propose it in writing to the chief of the agency. If the
latter does not consent to the request, the subsequent procedure is governed by Section 69, paragraph 3;
the highest service authority shall make a final decision.


Section 71
(1) The conciliatory committee shall be established at the highest service authority. It shall consist of two
members, one to be appointed by the highest service authority and one by the appropriate works council
of that authority, as well as an impartial chairman to be agreed upon by both sides. If no agreement can
be reached on the chairman, the appointment shall be made by the Secretary General of the North Atlan-
tic Treaty Organization, unless the parties jointly request the President of the Federal Administrative
Court or the Secretary General of the Western European Union to make the appointment. The highest ser-
vice authority may insist upon the members of the conciliatory committee being cleared to handle classi-
fied material. At the request of the force or works council concerned, standing or ad hoc conciliatory
committees may be established if warranted by the circumstances.
(2) The proceedings shall not be public. The highest service authority and the appropriate works council
shall be given the opportunity to state their views orally. In agreement with the parties concerned, such
views may be stated in writing.
(3) The conciliatory committee shall decide by resolution. It may meet the requests of the parties con-
cerned only in part. Resolutions shall be passed by majority vote. Conciliatory committee decisions shall
be within the framework of legal provisions, including the budgetary laws and regulations of the sending
State, binding upon the highest service authority of the force.
(4) The resolution shall be delivered to the parties concerned. It shall be binding on the parties concerned,
apart from cases of Section 76, to the extent that it contains a decision within the meaning of paragraph 3.


Section 72
(1) To the extent that decisions are subject to the works council’s co-operation, a planned action, prior to
its implementation, shall be discussed with the council in time and in detail, in order to reach an under-
standing.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                                 35


(2) If the works council does not respond within 10 workdays, or in discussions does not uphold its objec-
tions or proposals, the planned action shall be considered approved. If the works council raises objections,
it shall inform the chief of the agency of the reasons. Section 69, paragraph 2, sentence 6 shall apply muta-
tis mutandis.
(3) If the agency does not, or not fully, meet the works council’s objections, it shall notify the works coun-
cil of the decision in writing by stating the reasons.
(4) Within 3 workdays from receipt of the notification, the works council of a subordinate agency may
refer the matter through official channels to the higher authorities where works councils above the local
level exist, and request a decision. These authorities shall decide after negotiations with the works council
that exists at their level. The works council shall furnish a copy of its request to its agency.
(5) If a request pursuant to paragraph 4 has been made, the planned action shall be suspended until receipt
of a decision from the higher authority.
(6) Section 69, paragraph 5 shall apply mutatis mutandis.


Section 73
(1) Shop agreements may be concluded only insofar as they are expressly provided for in this law. They
shall be concluded jointly between the agency and the works council, and shall be established in writing,
signed by both parties, and published in a suitable manner.
(2) Shop agreements which apply to a larger area shall take precedence over shop agreements which apply
to a smaller area.


Section 74
(1) Decisions in which the works council has participated shall be implemented by the agency, unless
agreed otherwise in individual cases.
(2) The works council may not interfere with the agency’s operations by unilateral action.


                                                Title Three
                            Matters Subject to Works Council Particpation


Insofar as in individual cases the right of co-determination provided for in the Law is incompatible with
military interests particularly worthy of protection, the extent of the right of co-determination may be
restricted. The highest service authority shall communicate in writing the reasons for the restriction on
the right of co-determination and shall specify the extent of such restriction. Where the disclosure of rea-
sons would cause a danger of serious detriment to the security of the sending State or its force, the highest
service authority may establish this by means of a formal declaration to be confirmed by the President of
the Federal Labour Court. In those cases the co-operation procedure shall apply.
36                                                                       USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


Section 75
(1) In personnel matters concerning salaried employees and wage earners, the works council shall
co-determine (except numbers 1 and 2) with regard to the following items:
1. Appointment. The co-operation procedure shall apply in this case.
2. Assignment of higher or lower level duties, upgrading or downgrading, initial grading. The co-opera-
tion procedure shall apply in this case.
3. Transfer to another agency, reassignment within the agency if it is connected with a change of the per-
manent duty station;
4. Detachment for a period of more than 3 months;
5. Extension of employment beyond the retirement age;
6. Instructions which restrict the employee’s free choice of domicile;
7. Denial or withdrawal of approval for a second employment;
(2) In social matters the works council shall co-determine with regard to the following items:
1. Granting of welfare support, advance payments, loans and corresponding social allowances;
2. Assignment and cancellation of quarters which are at the disposal of the agency as well as establish-
ment of conditions for their use.
If an employee has applied for a benefit pursuant to number 1, the works council shall participate only at
his request; upon request of the employee, only the executive committee of the works council shall
co-determine. The agency shall, after the end of each calendar quarter, submit a summary to the works
council of the support compensation and corresponding social allowances granted. In this summary,
requests and payments made shall be compared. Information as to the reasons stated by the employees
shall not be disclosed in such a summary.
(3) The following matters (except number 13) shall be subject to the works council’s co-determination, if
appropriate by conclusion of shop agreements, to the extent that they are not regulated by law or collec-
tive tariff agreement, or are usually regulated by agreement in accordance with sub-paragraph (a) of
paragraph 5 of Article 56, Protocol of Signature
1. Establishment of the beginning and end of daily work hours and breaks, as well as the distribution of
work hours over the individual weekdays;
2. Time, place and method of payment of salaries and wages
3. Setting up the leave plan; scheduling the time periods for annual leave of individual employees if no
agreement has been reached between the agency chief and the employees concerned.
4. Questions regarding the wage structure within the agency, particularly the establishment of pay policy,
the introduction and application of new pay methods and the changes thereof, as well as the determination
of piece work and premium rates and corresponding remunerations based on performance, including
money factors;
5. Establishment, management, and discontinuation of social facilities maintained exclusively for civilian
labour, regardless of their legal nature;
6. Implementation of vocational training for salaried and wage grade employees;
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                              37


7. Selection of employees for participation in further educational training measures;
8. Contents of personnel questionnaires for salaried and wage grade employees. Insofar as the contents of
personnel questionnaires concern questions of military security, the co-operation proceduers shall apply.
9. Procedures for employee performance appraisals;
10. Appointment of physicians of trust or company physicians as employees;
11. Measures to prevent on-the-job accidents and other damages to health;
12. Principles for the evaluation of accepted suggestions within the scope of the agency’s suggestions pro-
gram;
13. Establishment of social plans including retraining plans for the compensation or mitigation of finan-
cial disadvantages caused by rationalization measures; the co-operation procedure shall apply in this
case.
14. Determination not to advertise vacancies which are to be filled;
15. Regulations concerning good order within the agency, and conduct of employees;
16. Layout of the work places; where members of both the force or the civilian component and civilian
labour are employed in the same facility or involved in the same program, and the number of civilian
labour involved does not predominate the co-operation procedures shall apply.
17. Introduction and application of technical means designed to control the conduct or the performance of
employees.
(4) If because of requirements that cannot be foreseen by the agency, the daily work hours (paragraph 3,
number 1) for certain groups of employee must be scheduled irregularly and at short notice, the works
council’s co-determination is limited to laying down the principles for the establishment of duty sched-
ules, in particular for the ordering of stand-by time, additional work, and overtime.
(5) Remunerations and other employment conditions which are regulated by collective tariff agreement
shall not be subject to a shop agreement (paragraph 3). This does not apply, however, when a collective
tariff agreement specifically permits the conclusion of supplementary shop agreements.


Section 76
(1) (Not applicable)
(2) The following matters shall be subject to the works council’s co-determination (or co-operation, as
indicated), if appropriate by conclusion of shop agreements, to the extent that they are not regulated by
law or collective tariff agreement, or are usually regulated by agreement in accordance with sub-para-
graph (a) of paragraph 5 of Article 56, Protocol of Signature
1. – 4. (Not applicable)
5. Measures to increase the work performance and to facilitate the work flow;
6. General questions concerning advanced training of employees;
7. Introduction of basically new working methods; the co-operation procedure shall apply in this case.
38                                                                        USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


8. Issue of guidelines for the selection of personnel in case of appointments, transfers, regradings, and
notices of termination of employment;
9. Claims for compensation of damages against an employee.
In the cases of number 9 the works council shall co-operate only upon request of the employee; the latter
shall be informed in advance and in due time of the planned action.


Section 77
(1) In personnel matters of the employees referred to in Section 14, paragraph 3, and of employees per-
forming work of a predominantly scientific or artistic nature, the works council , pursuant to Section 75,
paragraph 1, shall co-determine or co-operate only upon their request.
(2) In the matters covered by Section 75, paragraph 1, the works council may refuse to give its consent, if
1. The action constitutes a violation of a law, an ordinance, a provision of a collective tariff agreement, a
court decision or an administrative instruction, or a guideline within the meaning of Section 76, paragraph
2, number 8,
or
2. Anxiety exists, justified by facts, that the action will be of disadvantage to the employee concerned or
other employees without this being justified for operational or personal reasons,
or
3. Anxiety exists, justified by facts, that the employee or applicant, by anti-social or illegal conduct, will
disturb the peace of the agency.


Section 78
(1) The works council shall co-operate in the following matters:
1. Preparation of administrative instructions of an agency on internal, social, and personal matters of the
employees within its area. The head of the agency shall submit administrative instructions to the works
council prior to their being issued, except in circumstances in which paragraph 6 of Section 72 applies in
conjunction with the fifth sentence of Section 69 of this Law.
2. Deactivation, curtailment, relocation or merger of agencies, or essential parts thereof, unless co-opera-
tion is incompatible with the military mission of the force.
3.-5. (Not applicable)
(2) (Not applicable)
(3) Prior to submission of manpower requirements in connection with the budget estimate, the works
council shall be heard. If the works council of a subordinate agency gives its comments on manpower
requirements, they shall be sent to the next higher authority together with the manpower requirements.
This shall apply mutatis mutandis to personnel planning.
(4) Paragraph 3 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the new construction, alterations and expansions of
offices/duty facilities.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                              39


(5) The works council shall be heard prior to basic changes in working procedures and work flows.


Section 79
(1) The works council shall co-operate in the case of ordinary notice of termination of employment given
by the employer. The works council may raise objections to the notice of termination of employment if, in
its view,
1. Social aspects were not or not sufficiently taken into account in the selection of the employee who was
to be given notice of termination of employment,
2. The notice of termination of employment violates guidelines within he meaning of Section 76, para-
graph 2, number 8
3. The employee who is to be given notice of termination of employment can continue to be employed in
another position within the same agency, or in another agency of the same appointing authority (Verwal-
tungszweig) within the same duty station including its commuting area,
4. The continued employment of the employee is possible after reasonable measures of retraining or fur-
ther training, or
5. The continued employment of the employee is possible under changed employment conditions and the
employee has agreed to it.
If the employee is given the notice of termination of employment, although the works council, pursuant to
sentence 3, has raised objections to it, the employee shall be provided a copy of the works council’s com-
ments together with the notice of termination of employment, unless the works council above the local
level does not uphold the objections in the proceedings under Section 72, paragraph 4, sentence 2.
(2) If the employee, in the case of paragraph 1, sentence 4, has, under the Protection against Dismissal
Act, initiated action for declaratory judgment (Feststellungsklage) that the employment is not terminated
by the termination notice, the employer must - upon request of the employee - continue the employment
of the latter after the expiration of the notice period under unchanged employment conditions until the
final, legally binding, conclusion of the lawsuit. On request of the employer, the labor court may release
him by means of an injunction (Einstweilige Verfügung) from the obligation to continue employment pur-
suant to sentence 1, if
1. The employee’s lawsuit doe not have sufficient prospect of success or appears mischievous, or
2. The continued employment of the employee would lead to an unreasonable economic burden for the
employer, or
3. The works council’s objections were obviously unjustified.
(3) Prior extraordinary notices of termination of employment, the works council shall be heard. The chief
of the agency shall justify the proposed action. If the works council has objections, it shall inform the
chief of the agency of those immediately, but not later than within 3 workdays, in writing by stating the
reasons.
(4) A notice of termination of employment shall have no effect if the works council has not been allowed
to participate.
40                                                                      USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


Section 80
A member of the appropriate works council - as designated by the council - may attend, in an advisory
capacity, examinations conducted by the agency for its employees.


Section 81
(1) The works council shall, in the prevention of hazards that may cause accidents or damage to health,
assist the authorities responsible for occupational safety, the carriers of statutory accident insurance and
the other authorities concerned, by making suggestions, giving advice and information, and promoting the
implementation of the provisions for occupational safety and accident prevention in the agency.
(2) In all inspections and questions connected with occupational safety or accident prevention and inves-
tigations of accidents, the chief of the agency and the authorities mentioned in paragraph 1 shall be
required to consult with the works council - or members designated by the council of the agency in which
the inspection or investigation takes place. The chief of the agency shall inform the works council imme-
diately of the requirements and instructions of the authorities referred to in paragraph 1 concerning occu-
pational safety and accident prevention.
(3) Works council members appointed by the works council shall participate in meetings between the
chief of the agency and the safety representatives or safety committee.
(4) The works council shall receive the minutes of the investigations, inspections, and discussions in
which it is to be consulted under paragraphs 2 and 3.
5. The chief of the agency shall submit to the works council a copy of the accident report to be signed by
the works council.


                                                Title Four
             Participation of Higher Level Works Councils and the Joint Works Council


Section 82
(1) Instead of the local works council, the higher level works council established at the appropriate higher
authority shall participate in matters which the local agency is not authorized to decide.
(2) Before making a decision in matters which concern individual employees or agencies, the higher level
works council shall give the works council an opportunity to comment. The time limits established in Sec-
tion 69 and 72 shall double in this case.
(3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the division of responsibility between the local
works council and the joint works council.
(4) Sections 69 through 81 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the rights and obligations of the higher level
works councils and the joint works council.
(5) Where, in the area of jurisdiction of commands with various levels of administration personnel or
social measures are taken by an agency at which no works council responsible for participation in these
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                              41


measures is provided for, the works council above the local level at the next superior agency to which the
deciding agency and the employees affected by the decision belong, shall be called in for participation.
42                                                                        USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


                                              CHAPTER SIX
                                            COURT DECISIONS


Section 83
(1) Besides the cases referred to in Sections 9, 25, 28, and Section 47, paragraph 1, the labor courts - in the
third legal instance the Federal Labor Court - shall decide on:
1. Eligibility to vote and to be elected;
2. Election and term of office of works councils and of the representatives mentioned in Sections 57 and
65, as well as the composition of works councils and youth/apprentice representations;
3. Competence, conduct of business, and legal status of works councils and representatives referred to in
Sections 57 and 65;
4. Existence or nonexistence of shop agreements.
(2) The provisions of the Labor Court Law concerning the decree proceedings (Beschlussverfahren) shall
apply. The Federal Republic shall act in the court proceedings in the name of a force or a civilian compo-
nent at their request.


Section 84 (Not applicable)
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                                  43


                                            CHAPTER SEVEN
         PROVISIONS FOR SPECIFIC ORGANIZATIONS AND THE HANDLING OF
                            CLASSIFIED MATERIAL


Sections 85 through 91 (Not applicable)


Section 92 (applies mutatis mutandis)
In lieu of Section 82, paragraph 5, the following provisions shall apply within the area of responsibility of
the Ministry of Defense:
(1) When an agency, at which no works council for participation is provided for, takes personnel and
social measures affecting employees of an agency not subordinate to it, the works council of that agency
shall be called in by its chief after agreement has been reached between the agencies on the intended mea-
sure.
(2) When an agency, at which no higher level works council is provided for, establishes committees to
prepare decisions pursuant to Section 75, paragraph 2, sentence 1, number 2, and paragraph 3, number 5,
which have an effect on other agencies, the agency shall discuss the planned action with a member of the
council at the next higher authority of the agencies referred to. This member shall be designated by the
council at the next higher authority. Number 1 shall not be applied.


Section 93
(1) If a matter subject to works council participation is classified at least “VS - Vertraulich/Confidential,”
a committee shall take the place of the works council. The committee shall consist, as a maximum, of one
representative of each group represented in the council and elected by corresponding application of Sec-
tion 32, paragraph 1. The committee members must be cleared, under pertinent regulations, to handle
classified material at the appropriate secrecy level. Works councils at agencies subordinate to intermedi-
ate authorities shall not establish a committee; instead the committee of the district works council shall
take its place.
(2) If the appropriate committee is not established in time, the committee of the highest service authority
shall participate in the matter.
(3) In the cases of paragraph 1, sentence 1, the members of the conciliatory committee (Section 71) and its
chairperson must be cleared to handle classified material.
(4) Sections 40, 82, paragraph 2, and the provisions of Sections 36 and 39, paragraph 1, governing the par-
ticipation of the trade unions shall not be applicable. Matters classified at a secrecy level of at least “VS -
Vertraulich/Confidential,”shall not be discussed in the personnel assembly.


The head of the agency shall not be required to submit to the members of the council, to the committee
referred to in this section of the Law and to the conciliatory committee any material which is classified for
security reasons; the same shall apply to information therefrom.
44                                                                      USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008


                                             SECOND PART
                                             (Not applicable)


                                              THIRD PART
                                             Penal Provisions
Effective 1 January 1975, Sections 110 and 111 of the German Personnel Representation Law have been
replaced by the following provisions (extracts) of the German Criminal Code:


                                                Section 203
                                        Breach of Private Secrecy
(1)and (2) Whoever, without authorization, discloses the secret of another, in particular a secret which
belongs to the realm of personal privacy or a business or trade secret, which was confided to or otherwise
made known to him in his capacity as a person exercising duties or authorities under the law of Personnel
Representation shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 1 year or a fine.
(3) Not applicable
(4) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also be applicable if the offender, without authorization, discloses the secret
of another after the death of the person concerned.
(5) Whoever commits the act with the intent of enriching himself or another, or of harming another, shall
be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 2 years or a fine.


                                               Section 353b
                                       Breach of Official Secrecy
(1) Whoever, without authorization, discloses a secret which has been confided, or become known to him
as a person exercising duties or authorities under the law of Personnel Representation, and who thereby
endangers important public interests, shall be punished with imprisonment not exceeding 5 years or a fine.
If, by the act, the offender has negligently endangered important public interests, then he shall be pun-
ished with imprisonment not exceeding 1 year or a fine.
(2) Not applicable
(3) The attempt to commit any such act shall be punishable.
At the request of a force or a civilian component, the agency designated by the Federal Republic of Ger-
many shall apply for the institution of a criminal prosecution in respect to a breach of secrecy (Verletzung
der Schweigepflicht) in accordance with the penal provisions of the law.
USAFEI36-751 21 APRIL 2008                                                                            45


                                           FOURTH PART
                                           Final Provisions
Section 115
For the purpose of regulating the elections referred to in Section 12 thru 25, 55 through 57, and 65, the
legal ordinance issued by the Federal Republic pursuant to Section 115 of the law on Personnel Represen-
tation shall apply mutatis mutandis.
