BY ORDER OF THE                                         HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                          ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 33-115

                                                                              26 MAY 2011

                                                          Communications and Information

                                               INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICE
                                                    CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT

            COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/A6                                                      Certified by: USAFA/A6
                                                                   (Lt Col Gary A. Helfeldt)
                                                                                   Pages: 7


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-1, Information Resources
Management, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities,
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, AFI 33-114, Software
Management, AFI 33-150, Management of Communications Activities, TO 00-33A-1100, AF-
GIG Operational Change Management Process, and the Department of Defense Information
Technology Infrastructure Library (D-ITIL). It supports United States Air Force Academy
Instruction (USAFAI) 33-101, Information Technology Service Strategy and Governance. This
instruction establishes Information Technology Service Configuration Management
(Configuration Management) as a key Air Force Academy Information Technology Service
Management process. It provides direction for managing, maintaining, and controlling United
States Air Force Academy (USAFA) Information Technology assets and systems. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure all records created as a result of the processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records       Disposition      Schedule      (RDS)       located        at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.
 2                                                                 USAFAI33-115 26 MAY 2011


1. Scope.
     1.1. This instruction applies to most information technology (IT) systems, assets,
     applications, programs, and components in use at USAFA to provide services to USAFA
     cadets, faculty, and staff.
        1.1.1. Requests for exceptions to this policy are submitted through the Change Process
        (see USAFAI 33-116, Information Technology Change Management). If approved by
        the Change Advisory Board, they are then sent to USAFA/A6 for approval.
        1.1.2. Approved exceptions will be listed in the USAFA Service Catalog (see USAFAI
        33-101).
2. Purpose.
     2.1. This instruction provides guidance and procedures that personnel must use to manage
     the configuration of USAFA IT services and components.
     2.2. The guidance and procedures outlined in this instruction are modeled from the processes
     outlined in TO 00-33A-1100.
3. Process and Function Descriptions.
     3.1. Effective enforcement of IT governance standards, processes, and procedures cannot
     take place without visibility over all IT assets. IT Service Configuration Management
     provides visibility into the IT enterprise, enabling better forecasting, planning, and
     implementation of successful change.
        3.1.1. Configuration Management helps to sustain network performance, reliability, and
        security programs, as well as enable cost savings through enterprise efficiencies. This
        process is responsible for identifying, controlling, recording, tracking, reporting, auditing
        and verifying the value and ownership of service assets throughout their lifecycles.
     3.2. Configuration Management is responsible for maintaining all information about
     Configuration Items (CIs) in the USAFA IT Enterprise that are required to deliver IT services
     to USAFA customers. This information includes relationships between CIs.
        3.2.1. CIs are any components that need to be managed in order to deliver an IT service.
        This includes USAFA IT assets, as well as IT Services, IT infrastructure, IT Service
        Management processes, documentation, Service Level Standards (SLSs), Service Level
        Agreements (SLAs), etc.
        3.2.2. CIs are under the control of Configuration Management and Change Management
        (see USAFAI 33-116).
     3.3. Configuration Manager manages and maintains the Configuration Management System
     (CMS). The CMS is a repository for all USAFA CIs. It includes the Definitive Media
     Library (DML), License Tracking System, IT Configuration Management Database
     (CMDB), and IT Configuration Baseline. CMS is considered a ‘living document,’ updated
     as frequently as required to maintain currency. Information on CIs shall be stored in the
     CMS.
        3.3.1. DML includes the Definitive Software Library, IT media CIs, and other licensed
        media.
USAFAI33-115 26 MAY 2011                                                                        3


      3.3.2. Only authorized media shall be accepted into the DML, strictly controlled by
      Configuration Management.
      3.3.3. DML shall include a physical store to hold master copies of all media.
   3.4. The Configuration Manager will:
      3.4.1. Chair the Configuration Control Board (CCB) (see USAFAI 33-116).
      3.4.2. Determine how CIs are to be uniquely identified.
      3.4.3. Provide impact analysis reports, configuration status reports, and appropriate
      metrics through chain of command to USAFA/A6 (see Attachment 2).
   3.5. The Configuration Management process contains five steps (see Attachment 3, Service
   Configuration Management Process Model).
      3.5.1. Management & Planning. USAFA/A6, 10 CS/CL, and Configuration Manager
      decide what level of Configuration Management is required for the selected service or
      project and how this level will be achieved. This is documented in the Configuration
      Management Plan.
      3.5.2. Configuration and Asset Identification defines how types of assets and CIs are to
      be selected, grouped, classified, and defined by appropriate characteristics.
          3.5.2.1. Defines the approach to uniquely identifying all assets or services across the
          service lifecycle, and the relationships between them.
          3.5.2.2. Defines the types of assets and CIs under the control of Configuration
          Management.
      3.5.3. Configuration & Control ensures adequate control mechanisms over CIs are in
      place. No CI should be added, modified, replaced, or removed without appropriate
      controlling documentation or procedure being followed.
      3.5.4. Status Accounting ensures that all configuration data and documentation are
      recorded as each asset or CI progresses through its lifecycle. It provides the status of the
      configuration of a service and its enterprise as the configuration evolves through the
      service lifecycle.
      3.5.5. Verification & Audit include a series of reviews or audits to ensure that there is
      conformity between the documented baselines (e.g., agreements, interface control
      documents) and the actual business enterprise they refer to. Also, it verifies the physical
      existence of CIs in the organization or DML as well as checks that the release and
      configuration documentation is present before performing the release.
4. USAFA Organizational Responsibilities.
   4.1. Director of Communications & Information (USAFA/A6) will:
      4.1.1. Review and approve the implementation of Configuration Management process
      outlined in this instruction.
      4.1.2. Report appropriate metrics to USAFA Superintendent (see Attachment 2).
   4.2. 10th Communications Squadron (10 CS) will:
 4                                                            USAFAI33-115 26 MAY 2011


       4.2.1. Assign the IT Service Configuration Manager.
       4.2.2. Monitor and maintain Configuration Management process.
       4.2.3. Maintain a Configuration Management System (CMS) and Configuration
       Management Database (CMDB).

5. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

5.1. Prescribed Forms.

No forms are prescribed by this instruction.

5.2. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication




                                               MICHAEL C. GOULD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                               Superintendent
USAFAI33-115 26 MAY 2011                                                       5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-101, Commanders Guidance and Responsibilities, 18 November 2008
AFI 33-112, Information Technology Hardware Asset Management, 7 January 2011
AFI 33-114, Software Management, 13 May 2004
AFI 33-150, Management of Communications Activities, 26 November 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 33-1, Information Resources Management, 27 June 2006
TO 00-33A-1100, AF-GIG Operational Change Management Process
Department of Defense Information Technology Infrastructure Library (D-ITIL)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
CCB—Configuration Control Board
CI—Configuration Item
CMDB—Configuration Management Database
CMS—Configuration Management System
CSF—Critical Success Factor
DML—Definitive Media Library
IT—Information Technology
KPI—Key Performance Indicator
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SLA—Service Level Agreement
SLS—Service Level Standard
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
 6                                                              USAFAI33-115 26 MAY 2011


                                        Attachment 2
            SERVICE CONFIGURATION PROCESS METRIC EXAMPLES

A2.1. This Attachment provides an example set of USAFA IT Service Configuration
Management performance measures, Critical Success Factors (CSFs), and Key Performance
Indicators (KPIs).
     Critical Success Factors
     Focusing on establishing valid justification for collecting and maintaining data at
     the agreed level of detail
     Ability to demonstrate a top down approach that is focused on identifying service
     CIs and subsequently the CIs that support those services, thereby allowing a rapid
     and clear demonstration of potential points of failure for any given service
     Ensuring that assets and configuration items are accurate
     Making use of enabling technology to automate the CMS practices and enforce
     ACM policies
     Control information about the IT infrastructure and services
     Support delivery of quality IT services
     Key Performance Indicators
     Percentage improvement in maintenance scheduling over the life of an asset
     Number of assets identified as cause of service failures
     Number of incidents related to inaccurate CI information
     Average cost per user for licenses (i.e., more effective charging options achieved)
     Number of licenses not used
     Percentage (reduction) in user impact of outages and incidents related to
     inaccurate CMS/CMDB data
     Number of unauthorized configurations
     Number of failed changes related to inaccurate CMS/CMDB data
     Number of breached SLAs because of CMS/CMDB errors
     Percentage of inaccurate CIs
     Number of exceptions reported during configuration audits
USAFAI33-115 26 MAY 2011                                 7


                           Attachment 3
        SERVICE CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT PROCESS MODEL
