BY ORDER OF THE                                    UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
THE SUPERINTENDENT                                              MISSION DIRECTIVE 3

                                                                              25 JANUARY 2012



                                                                 COMMANDANT OF CADETS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/A5D                                                 Certified by: HQ USAFA/A589
                                                                  (Col Michael L. Therianos, Jr.)
Supersedes:    USAFAMD3, 26 July 2007                                                   Pages: 2


This mission directive provides general guidance about the mission and assigned duties of the
Commandant of Cadets, Headquarters United States Air Force Academy (USAFA), Colorado.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force Form (AF) 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Mission statement was amended to reflect strategic mapping session. Responsibility for
character development was changed from supporting commander to supported commander as the
Center for Character and Leadership Development is part of the Cadet Wing. Administrative
actions were removed from discipline options of the Air Force Cadet Wing (AFCW) to ensure
the use of the Cadet Discipline System (CDS) by AFCW chains of command.
1. Mission. Develop inspired Air Force officers of character through an intense, sustained and
comprehensive military experience.
2. Command. The Commandant of Cadets, United States Air Force Academy:
   2.1. Reports directly to the Superintendent, United States Air Force Academy.
   2.2. Exercises administrative and operational control of all USAFA cadets, assigned faculty,
   and staff. Relinquishes operational control of cadets to other supported commanders per
   Superintendent guidance.
 2                                                           USAFAMD3 25 JANUARY 2012


     2.3. Is the supported commander for cadet leadership and character development.
     2.4. Is a supporting commander for academic and physical development.
3. Roles and Responsibilities. The Commandant of Cadets, United States Air Force Academy:
     3.1. Employs the methodology and models of the Officer Development System (ODS) in
     designing and executing education, training and experiential programs in pursuit of the
     USAFA Outcomes to develop officers of character.
     3.2. Develops and maintains a Cadet Military Education and Training Plan integrated within
     the overall USAFA Course of Instruction and focused on leadership development to ensure
     institutional competencies and basic expeditionary airman skills become internalized
     personal characteristics.
     3.3. Employs two parallel chains within a single command – the Air Force Cadet Wing
     (AFCW) chain and the permanent party (CW) chain. The CW chain is responsible for
     training, developing, and mentoring the AFCW chain, creating an active duty environment,
     exercising Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) authority, and ensuring unit good order
     and discipline. The AFCW chain trains, develops and mentors the junior classes and is
     responsible for support and maintenance of good order and discipline of all cadets through
     the CDS.
     3.4. Ensures Good Order and Discipline. Monitors AFCW disciplinary environment and
     regularly updates the Superintendent. Decides, with the advice of the CW and AFCW
     chains, whether to pursue punitive UCMJ actions. Monitors uniformity of discipline and
     reviews policies for execution of the Cadet Disciplinary System and administrative actions.
     3.5. Facilitates Superintendent, Dean of the Faculty, and Director of Athletics program
     objectives.




                                             TAMRA L. RANK, Col, USAF
                                             Vice Superintendent
