BY ORDER OF THE                                          HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                           ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 33-304

                                                                                20 JUNE 2011

                                                            Communications and Information

                                                 PRESENTATION/PUBLIC ADDRESS AND
                                                 VIDEO TELECONFERENCING SUPPORT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 CS/SCXP                                                       Certified by: 10 CS/SCX
                                                                            (Ms. Debra Porter)
                                                                                       Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information Management,
28 March 2006. This instruction applies to all United States Air Force Academy (USAFA)
personnel. It also applies to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National
Guard (ANG) utilizing USAF Academy resources. This instruction implements policies and
procedures relating to presentation and public address (P/PA) and video teleconferencing (VTC)
support from the 10th Communications Squadron (10 CS). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

1. Organizational Policy.
   1.1. The 10 CS must ensure efficient and cost effective use of its resources while providing
   professional products and services to meet official Air Force mission requirements.
   Whenever a request for P/PA or VTC services is not clearly official, the request must be
   reviewed and approved/disapproved by the Contract Quality Assurance Person (QAP), 10
   CS/SCXPQ. The 10th Air Base Wing Commander (10 ABW/CC) is the final approval
   authority for exceptions to this instruction. Approval of any P/PA or VTC services outlined
   in this instruction is contingent upon contract workload and/or funding status.
 2                                                                 USAFAI33-304 20 JUNE 2011


     1.2. P/PA and VTC services provide on-site support and maintenance for equipment they
     own, utilize or have otherwise been designated to operate or maintain by contract. On-base
     locations requiring these services may include venues such as the Association of Graduates
     (AOG) when these facilities have been reserved as the location for the execution of an
     official function or event.
2. General Guidelines for Official Products and Services.
     2.1. The use of 10 CS contract personnel and equipment is restricted to official mission
     support. Customers must certify an official need for services requested.
     2.2. Specifically prohibited is the use of government personnel, equipment or supplies for
     personal use or revenue producing activities.
     2.3. Nonspecific justification and usage requests will not be supported for any service.
     2.4. Requirements will be met utilizing available manning and as scheduling allows, IAW
     this instruction and 10 CS contractual terms.
     2.5. When overlapping requests cannot be accommodated due to contractual shortages, a
     priority system will apply (see paragraph 4, Prioritization of Work Requests).
3. Requesting Products and Services.
     3.1. P/PA and VTC support are requested utilizing USAFA Form 99, Presentations/Public
     Address Support Request. This form is available electronically at the AF E-publishing
     website.
     3.2. Submit support requests to 10 CS/SCXPCM no less than 2 weeks prior to date of the
     event. This allows for sufficient time to schedule equipment and manning. Organizations or
     committees with large or special events should submit requirements as early as possible to
     ensure special needs can be met. Requests received less than 2 weeks from the day of the
     event are routed to the 10 CS QAP for approval. This does not guarantee P/PA or VTC
     support will be provided. In general, support is offered on a first-come, first-served basis.
     3.3. Requests for support must be endorsed by authorized personnel. Requests will only be
     accepted directly from cadets when they are the coordinating official for approved USAFA
     mission support events. All requests from cadets must include a POC that is either a faculty
     member, Air Officer Commanding (AOC) or Military Training Liaison (MTL) that is
     familiar with the requirement.
     3.4. Customers will be notified within two duty days of receipt of request of any support
     conflicts.
     3.5. Support conflicts will be resolved between the service provider, the requestor and the
     contract QAP.
4. Prioritization of Work Requests.
     4.1. A production priority system will apply to requests for services and will be applied
     when parallel requirements are unsupportable by available manpower. Requirements will be
     categorized as Priority 1, Priority 2, or Priority 3 as interpreted from the work order request.
        4.1.1. Priority 1.
USAFAI33-304 20 JUNE 2011                                                                         3


          4.1.1.1. Requirements from the Superintendent, Protocol and general officers, as well
          as urgent requests, where failure to deliver products or services would seriously or
          negatively impact a special event or USAFA mission.
      4.1.2. Priority 2. General category for routine support requirements.
      4.1.3. Priority 3. Special requests requiring approval by exception.
   4.2. Other Priority placement factors:
      4.2.1. Task assessment will be made to evaluate urgency, mission impact, agency
      supported, complexity, available resources, and significant factors pertaining to work
      within the same priority.
      4.2.2. Mediation between the customer and the 10 CS QAP will occur when conflicting
      requirements must displace work in progress or scheduled.
5. Authorized/Unauthorized Event Support.
   5.1. Authorized events include official military ceremonies and events. Unauthorized events
   are those events that are purely social in nature or not directly related to military missions or
   activities. Exceptions to the policies described in this instruction must be requested from the
   10 ABW/CC. P/PA and VTC services may be subject to cancellation or rescheduling at any
   time due to emergency or priority workload, and may also incur limitations in association
   with the availability of contract funds and/or personnel.
   5.2. Examples of authorized events include:
      5.2.1. Events approved by the USAFA Event Committee as “hosted by” USAFA.
      5.2.2. Official ceremonies (e.g., retirement) for Colonel/CMSgt and above assigned to
      USAFA. Official ceremonies for long-term or senior civilians may only be supported by
      exception, as directed by leadership.
      5.2.3. Change of Command ceremonies.
      5.2.4. 10 ABW and above official briefings and seminars.
      5.2.5. 10 MSG or above military/civilian awards and recognition ceremonies.
      5.2.6. 10 ABW endorsed “No-Fee” events coordinated by the 10th Force Support
      Squadron (10 FSS) such as the annual Base-wide Picnic and the Holiday Tree Lighting
      Ceremony.
      5.2.7. Nonrevenue generating Category A, Mission Sustaining, and Category B, Basic
      Community Support Activities, as described in AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support
      of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities
      (NAFIs).
          5.2.7.1. Category A programs are essential to the military mission and are authorized
          all support.
          5.2.7.2. Category B activities are closely related to Category A activities and are
          essentially community support programs. To qualify for support these activities may
          not generate revenue.
 4                                                                USAFAI33-304 20 JUNE 2011


        5.2.8. At the discretion of the 10 CS Director (10 CS/CL), events may be authorized
        support if the 10th Air Base Wing Commander (10 ABW/CC), 10th ABW Command
        Chief (10 ABW/CCC), USAFA Command Chief (HQ USAFA/CCC) or an Active Duty
        General Officer are scheduled speakers and/or honored guests.
     5.3. Examples of unauthorized events include but are not limited to:
        5.3.1. Events sponsored by private organizations, in accordance with AFI 34-223,
        Private Organizations (PO) Program. This includes events associated with Cadet Clubs
        and the AOG.
        5.3.2. Concerts by parties other than those officially sanctioned by the Air Force as being
        military in nature or serving a military need (such as recruitment).
        5.3.3. Fund raising functions such as car washes, dunk booths, golf tournaments, etc.
        5.3.4. Events held at Nonappropriated Fund Category C facilities.
        5.3.5. Social events such as squadron picnics, military spouses meetings, cadet class
        parties, holiday parties, local school graduations, going away parties, retirement
        luncheons, etc.
        5.3.6. Individual or squadron cadet commissioning ceremonies.
        5.3.7. Unofficial events held at off-site locations. Off-site is defined as any facility not
        within USAFA entry control gates.
        5.3.8. Events held at commercial locations that have Presentation/Public Address
        systems for hire or rental.
6. Special Event Support Requests.
     6.1. Events outlined in local instructions and USAFA plans still require the submittal of a
     USAFA Form 99 to receive services. This ensures accurate understanding of customer
     requirements.
     6.2. Support requests involving new technology, long-term completion, or high costs may
     require additional coordination. These requests should be submitted early to allow time for
     assessment and preparation of proper technical solutions.
     6.3. Major support projects (i.e. Corona, Cadet Graduation, etc.) will require planning
     meetings with all project officers and production elements involved to insure delineation of
     responsibilities and available support services.
7. VTC Support.
     7.1. Locations of VTC services are Building 4199 for up to SECRET-level VTCs and the
     Superintendent’s Conference Room for unclassified VTCs.
     7.2. The VTC host must provide 10 CS with the necessary conference connection
     information.
8. Facilities with In-house Systems.
     8.1. The following facilities have in-house systems, which can be utilized by the customer as
     self-service for unofficial events.
USAFAI33-304 20 JUNE 2011                                                                   5


      8.1.1. Falcon Club (Bldg 3120): The facility has one sound system that can be used in
      any combination of rooms for only one event. The system includes wireless
      microphones, CD player, and wired microphones. The Force Support Squadron, 10
      FSS/FSVC, is the POC for the Falcon Club.
      8.1.2. Arnold Hall (Bldg 2302): The theater system is operated by the Cadet Wing,
      USAFA/CWTMC personnel. The ballroom has a large drop down screen and ceiling
      mounted projector with computer and video connections. The ballroom also has wired
      microphone connections. The banquet room has no P/PA equipment. The POC for the
      ballroom is USAFA/CWTMC.
      8.1.3. Milazzo Club (Bldg 5226): The ballroom has a large drop down screen with
      ceiling mounted projector with computer and video inputs. The P/PA system includes
      wireless microphones, wired microphones, computer with audio connection, CD player,
      and DVD player. 10 FSS/FSCP is the POC.
      8.1.4. Base Theater (Bldg 5136): Access and authorization to use the base theater are
      controlled by the Preparatory School, USAFA/PL. The theater has a large screen on
      stage and a projector located in the projection booth. The P/PA system is located in the
      projection booth and includes wireless microphones, CD player, computer with audio
      connection and wired microphones.
      8.1.5. Press Box (Bldg 4900): Access and authorization to use the Blue & Silver Room
      are controlled by the Athletic Department, USAFA/ADSFS. The P/PA system includes
      wireless microphones, wired microphones, computer with audio connection, CD player,
      Flat Panel TVs and a DVD player.
9. Organizational Purchase of P/PA Systems.
   9.1. Organizations may justify and procure permanently installed and portable P/PA systems
   in accordance with Allowance Source Code 006AB00 and AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply
   Manual.
   9.2. Purchase of PA systems will be coordinated through 10 CS. Requirements must be
   submitted through the organizational Computer Requirements Officer (CRO) via the 10 CS
   Work Order Management System (WOMS). The 10 CS will provide information on
   recommended portable systems and ensure that in-house systems are in compliance with
   frequency guidelines and supportable technology.
   9.3. All upkeep and maintenance of organizationally owned portable PA systems are the
   responsibility of the owning organization.




                                          STEPHEN R. DAY, GS-14, DAF
                                          Director, 10th Communications Squadron
 6                                                         USAFAI33-304 20 JUNE 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-223, Private Organizations (PO) Program, 8 March 2007
AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) and
Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIs), 6 May 2009
AFMAN 23-110, USAF Supply Manual, 1 April 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 28 March 2006
Prescribed Forms
USAFA Form 99, Presentations/Public Address Support Request
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
AOG—Association of Graduates
MTL—Military Training Liaison
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
P/PA—Presentation and Public Address
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
VTC—Video Teleconference
