BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                              ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 31-102

                                                                               6 OCTOBER 2011

                                                                                          Security

                                                     USE, CONTROL, AND PROTECTION OF
                                                          HARMON HALL (BUILDING 2304)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/DSE                                                   Certified by: HQ USAFA/DS
                                                                                (Ms. Gail Colvin)
Supersedes:    USAFAI31-102,                                                           Pages: 10
               28 January 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense, 7 July
2007, by establishing procedures for using and protecting Harmon Hall (Building 2304). It
includes rules for normal operation, disaster preparedness, and elevated security postures.
United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) Plan 31-1, Integrated Defense Plan, 14 June 2010,
and USAFA Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 10-2, 22 September 2010 remain
authoritative guidance. This instruction applies to all personnel working in or having access to
Harmon Hall. This instruction does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air
National Guard (ANG) units. Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other
publications to HQ USAFA/DSE, 2304 Cadet Dr, Suite 3300 USAF Academy CO 80840, on Air
Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Command Section
Information Management (HQ USAFA/DSE) will coordinate with the appointed facility
manager to review this instruction to provide status on the two-year review. When updates are
necessary to this instruction, the appointed facility manager will be responsible for revising the
publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the AF Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision changes the organizational primary and alternate facility manager responsibilities
from fiscal years to calendar years. The primary and alternate rally points were changed to
 2                                                           USAFAI31-102 6 OCTOBER 2011


primary: Vandenberg Hall and alternate: the McDermott Library. The method of evacuation
from Harmon Hall was streamlined. The need for an organizational facility manager was
eliminated. Finally, shelter-in-place procedures were further defined. Other revisions involved
rewording of the previous version with no major changes to the processes.
1. Responsibilities. Primary and alternate facility managers direct the control and security of
Harmon Hall. The Directorate of Plans, Policy & Assessments (USAFA/A5/8/9) will assume
responsibility as both the primary and alternate. If the primary or alternate changes, the United
States Air Force Academy Vice Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CV) will appoint a new one.
Facility managers will conduct duties relating to control and security of Harmon Hall. They will
also serve as the conduit to report and monitor maintenance requests submitted to the 10th Civil
Engineer Squadron (10 CES).
2. Normal Operations.
     2.1. Access to Harmon Hall. Employee access to Harmon Hall is controlled by three
     electronic locks located at the north and south towers and the interior double doors inside the
     loading dock. The doors open by placing a proximity card over the keypad. Anyone who
     does not have a proximity card and needs access to Harmon Hall can be let in the building
     with a proper Department of Defense (DoD) identification card.
        2.1.1. Harmon Hall entrances, including the loading dock, will remain locked or guarded
        at all times. They will not be blocked open and unattended at any time.
        2.1.2. In the event of elevated security, access may require door guards. If so, each
        directorate will be tasked by the facility antiterrorism (AT) representative to provide door
        guards, on a rotating basis, until the security level returns to a level no longer requiring
        posted guards.
            2.1.2.1. Each directorate will provide a Point-of-Contact (POC) for the HQ Staff
            antiterrorism (AT) representative. The POC will be responsible for providing a door
            guard from within their respective directorate when required. The POC will ensure
            rapid response to AT requirements and the accurate and timely transfer of information
            in cases of increased security measures or other emergencies.
        2.1.3. Visitors without Harmon Hall access badges must be escorted at all times by the
        hosting organization. Temporary access badges may be issued for up to 30 days from the
        Vandenberg Hall or Sijan Hall entry control points. POC: 333-0577, 333-0576.
        2.1.4. Two-tier proximity card system may be initiated during increased threats or as a
        Random Antiterrorism Measure (RAM). During these periods, use the proximity card
        readers as normal and enter your specific 4-digit personal identification number to access
        the doors.
     2.2. Organization Keys. Harmon Hall organizational key custodians must monitor
     organization keys. They will request keys from the facility manager for issue to authorized
     personnel within their organization.
        2.2.1. Keys to Harmon Hall or any other government facility shall not be duplicated.
        2.2.2. If additional or replacement keys are needed, the organizational key custodian will
        contact the facility manager and the facility manager will complete an AF Form 332,
USAFAI31-102 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                                    3


     Base Civil Engineer Work Request. If a lost or stolen key creates the need to change door
     locks, the individual responsible may be held liable for that expense.
     2.2.3. All keys will be signed out by the recipient using the AF Form 1297, Temporary
     Issue Receipt, so that the organizational key custodian maintains full accountability for
     each unit. Reassigned individuals will return their key to their unit organizational key
     custodian who, in turn, will reissue the key to other organizational personnel or return the
     key to the facility manager. Organizational key custodians will keep a log to account for
     all keys and complete a semiannual inventory to ensure accountability for all keys issued.
     The results of the inventory will be forwarded to the facility manager.
  2.3. Cleaning and Custodial Service. The contracted cleaning service will clean each
  office on a regular basis as per the statement of work identified in the contract. In the event
  of an emergency, they can be contacted at base extension 333-3053.
  2.4. Maintenance and/or Repairs.
     2.4.1. Report all observed safety deficiencies immediately to supervisors and building
     managers. If deemed necessary, contact USAFA Safety at 333-3205 for further
     assistance.
     2.4.2. Anyone can report building problems to the primary and alternate facility
     managers. The facility managers will, in turn, contact the 10th Civil Engineer Squadron
     (10 CES) at 333-2790. Facility managers will complete an AF Form 332, Base Civil
     Engineer Work Request or AF Form 1219, BCE Multi-Craft Job Order to document the
     work being requested.
     2.4.3. Do not tamper with, alter, replace, relocate, or repair electrical or mechanical
     equipment.
     2.4.4. Organizations will replace expired light bulbs in their respective offices where
     ceilings are 10 feet or lower. The 10th Civil Engineer Squadron (10 CES) is responsible
     for lights where ceilings are higher than 10 feet. If lights do not work properly after the
     bulb replacement, contact the facility manager. The 10 CES will replace older-style light
     bulbs with more efficient bulbs.
  2.5. Smoking Areas. In accordance with Air Force Instruction (AFI) 40-102, Tobacco Use
  in the Air Force, designated smoking areas must be located away from the main entrance.
  The Harmon Hall smoking area is located in the air garden grass area located outside the
  ground-level walkway connecting Arnold Hall to Harmon Hall. Smoking is not permitted at
  any other location near Harmon Hall. Smokers will stay within the immediate area of the
  butt can and will extinguish all smoking materials before leaving the area.
  2.6. Harmon Hall Parking Lots. In accordance with Department of Justice guidelines
  (Title 28, Part 36, Appendix A) handicapped parking spaces will be identified. Parking in the
  upper lot is open to employees and visitors. Parking in and access to the lower lot will be
  based on need and force protection considerations. The HQ USAFA/CV will determine
  access to Charlie 3. The HQ USAFA/CV manages all reserved parking spaces. Reserved
  spaces will be distributed as follows:
     2.6.1. Each Mission Partner, Director, and Agency Head (housed in Harmon Hall), along
     with Quarterly Award winners will have designated spaces.
 4                                                         USAFAI31-102 6 OCTOBER 2011


        2.6.2. In addition, Harmon Hall organizations will be assigned a limited number of
        additional spaces. Organizations will control assignment of those slots.
        2.6.3. Open parking is permitted in any space that is not designated as reserved, and may
        be accessed through the C-1 security checkpoint near the cadet gymnasium tennis courts
        if C-3 is not authorized. The Harmon Hall facility manager will maintain a current copy
        of the lower lot map of assigned and unassigned parking spaces.
        2.6.4. The Vice Superintendent will appoint traffic wardens to monitor parking in both
        the lower and upper Harmon Hall lots. Traffic wardens will check upper lot for cadet
        cars, which are prohibited. Traffic wardens will issue citations when violations are
        reported or observed. Training for traffic wardens can be obtained by contacting Security
        Forces S5 section at    333-2005.
        2.6.5. A Proximity badge and Cadet Area parking sticker are required to gain access to
        the Harmon Hall lower lot, as well as other cadet area parking. Open parking is
        permitted in any spaces that are not designated as reserved. Proximity badges are issued
        by the contractor at both the Pass and Registration Center located northeast of the South
        Gate and Fairchild Hall, Room 2J7. Call 333-0084 to verify requirements for receiving a
        badge. Cadet parking stickers are only issued from the Pass and Registration Center.
        2.6.6. When the Force Protection Condition (FPCON) increases to Charlie or Delta for
        extended periods, access to the Harmon Hall lower lot may be restricted and occupants
        may have to park in the upper parking lot.
        2.6.7. Overnight parking is only permitted for USAFA registered vehicles. Visitor and
        cadet vehicles may be cited and/or towed at the owner’s expense. Personnel assigned to
        Harmon Hall and going TDY on orders may park their properly registered vehicle on
        back row (on the west, northwest side), after coordinating with the facility manager, for
        long-term parking.
3. Emergency Events. Occupants should become familiar with evacuation and reporting
procedures for fire, bomb threat response, and disaster protection as periodically publicized by
the facility manager and outlined in USAFA Plan 31-1, USAFA Plan 10-2, and the Shelter-in-
Place (SIP) guide. Prior to any emergency event, unit directors should establish a specific
evacuation area to accommodate their personnel. This should be well publicized and practiced
with all unit personnel semiannually. Each unit director is responsible for their area and safety
of their personnel. Reference the SIP guide for specific requirements for area selection and
guidance for preparation of a SIP kit.
     3.1. Emergency Notification. Emergency notification is the responsibility of the first
     person to become aware of the emergency. The individual must dial 911 and then the
     USAFA Command Center at 333-2633. The Command Center Staff, in coordination with
     HQ USAFA/DSE will make announcement over the Harmon Hall public address system as
     the primary means of emergency notification, coupled with an electronic mail notification
     sent to the Harmon Hall_All group mail box. Command Center notifications will include the
     nature of the threat and evacuation routes to take (or avoid), as applicable. The Command
     Center will then call HQ USAFA/DSE to verify the announcement was heard and e-mail
     received. The HQ USAFA/DSE runners are the secondary means of notification. Runners
     will alert each Harmon Hall office of the emergency and the directed evacuation route if
USAFAI31-102 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                                    5


  different than what is identified in paragraph 3.3. below. Facility managers will assist when
  available.
  3.2. Accountability. Each directorate is responsible to maintain full accountability for all
  assigned personnel and visitors in their directorate throughout any emergency or evacuation.
  Members and visitors are not authorized to report to vehicles during an evacuation.
  3.3. Evacuation.
     3.3.1. There is one evacuation plan for Harmon Hall. This plan is used for all evacuation
     requirements: fire, bomb threat, etc. All personnel assigned to Harmon Hall must be
     familiar with the plan. (See Attachment 2)
     3.3.2. An evacuation order will direct personnel to Evacuate Harmon Hall. Evacuees
     will use the primary rally point unless specifically directed to the alternate rally point.
     Evacuees may be redirected to the alternate rally point during an evacuation or on arrival
     to the Cadet Area. All personnel assigned to Harmon Hall must be familiar with the rally
     points. (See Attachment 2)
     3.3.3. The primary rally point is inside Vandenberg Hall. From the Cadet Area, enter
     Vandenberg Hall through the two closest stairwells to Harmon Hall (stairwells 11 and
     13); proceed downstairs to the first subterrazzo hallway. Turn right and proceed to the
     easternmost end of the hallway and hold. Assemble by directorate; the senior ranking
     officer will consider use of Squadron Area Rooms (TV Rooms). (See Attachment 2)
     3.3.4. The alternate rally point is inside the McDermott Library, adjacent to Fairchild
     Hall. Assemble by directorate. (See Attachment 2)
     3.3.5. Following any evacuation, each directorate will take role on arrival to the
     designated rally point. Numbers to be collected are: number assigned and number
     accounted for. The senior ranking member of each directorate will report role call results
     to HQ USAFA/DSE representatives at the rally point. Upon arrival at the designated
     rally point, HQ USAFA/DSE representatives will notify the USAFA Command Center at
     333-2633 of accountability numbers and continue to provide reports every 15 minutes
     until 100 percent accountability is attained.
  3.4. Evacuation Routes. Personnel will take the most direct route exiting Harmon Hall to
  the designated rally point. In the event of Cadet Area proximity gate lock failure preventing
  access to the Cadet Area during evacuation from Harmon Hall, pedestrian gate master keys
  have been signed-out, 1 each, to the following personnel: primary facility manager, alternate
  facility manager, the facility ATO, and the USAFA DSE Superintendent. Each key fits all
  the pedestrian gate locks. Once gates are opened, key holders should hold the gates open
  until all evacuees have entered the Cadet Area and then ensure the gate is secured before
  reporting to the rally point. Note: Keys may only be transferred in-person at the 10 CES
  Customer Service Desk via hand receipt. Key holders must maintain 100 percent
  accountability of their keys; in the event of key loss, the loss must be reported to the 10 SFS
  Operations Superintendent immediately.
     3.4.1. The USAFA Command Center personnel will follow USAFA Command Center
     Operating Instruction 31-101, for evacuation guidance. In the event the USAFA
6                                                          USAFAI31-102 6 OCTOBER 2011


       Command Center does evacuate, the phone lines will be forwarded, so the contact
       numbers will remain the same.
    3.5. Facility Shelter and Evacuation.
       3.5.1. All fires, smoke, or strong unusual odors will be reported immediately to the
       USAF Academy Fire Department by calling 911 and then calling the USAFA Command
       Center at 333-2633. When a fire is discovered, personnel will activate the building fire
       alarm system, report by calling 911, close all doors, and evacuate the building to either
       the primary or alternate rally point, as directed. Do not use elevators to evacuate. Do not
       re-enter the building until directed by the fire department. The reporting party should
       wait near the entry control point/proxy gate on the west side of Harmon Hall to brief the
       responding fire department personnel of the situation/emergency. (See Attachment 2)
       3.5.2. When directed to “shelter-in-place,” (SIP) Harmon Hall occupants will ensure all
       personnel in their immediate area are notified and then proceed to the designated shelter
       areas identified below. Remain in the shelter until notified by USAFA Fire and
       Emergency Services, Security Forces, or other command authority.
           3.5.2.1. Hazardous material (HAZMAT) emergency “shelter-in-place.”               Most
           hazardous material that could be released into the environment is heavier than air and
           therefore will settle in low lying areas. Threatened personnel should move to
           elevated areas above the contaminated atmosphere. Harmon Hall occupants will
           ensure all personnel in their immediate area are notified and then proceed to the
           uppermost floors and utilize internal rooms and hallways away from windows as
           primary shelter-in-place locations.
           3.5.2.2. Natural disaster “shelter-in-place.” The primary natural disaster threat at
           USAFA is a tornado. Personnel directed to SIP for a tornado should seek shelter in
           an interior room on a lower floor of their facility. Harmon Hall occupants will ensure
           all personnel in their immediate area are notified and then proceed to an interior
           office or room away from windows.
       3.5.3. When facility evacuation is necessary, Harmon Hall occupants will proceed to the
       primary evacuation rally point, unless directed otherwise. In all cases, occupants will
       remain at the evacuation point until dismissed by the senior ranking officer. (See
       Attachment 2).
       3.5.4. If a bomb threat is received, call 911, but do not activate the fire alarm. Have
       another staff member call the USAFA Command Center at 333-2633. Refer to Threat
       Response Plan Checklist, Attachment 3, for specific guidance. Evacuate the building and
       unless directed otherwise, proceed in an orderly fashion to the primary evacuation rally
       point. Do not re-enter the facility until directed by 10th Security Forces Squadron
       (10 SFS). If this threat is received by phone, the person who receives the call must use
       the AF Form 440, Bomb Threat Aid, to record call information. This person should take
       the card with them when they evacuate and contact the first Security Forces member they
       encounter. (See Attachment 3)
USAFAI31-102 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                              7


4. Reporting Incidents.
   4.1. Reporting Theft. Any individual who believes a theft has occurred will immediately
   notify the 10th Security Forces Control Center (10 SFS/SFCC) phone number 333-
   2000/2001/2003 for routine reporting or 911 for emergencies.
   4.2. Reporting Suspicious Package and/or Substance. Any individual who finds a
   suspicious package or substance should evacuate personnel and secure the immediate area.
   Notify Security Forces by calling 333-2000/2001/2003 for routine reporting or 911 for
   emergencies and the USAFA Command Center, 333-2633.




                                         TAMARA L. RANK, Colonel, USAF
                                         Vice Superintendent
 8                                                      USAFAI31-102 6 OCTOBER 2011


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 40-102, Tobacco Use in the Air Force, 3 June 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 7 July 2007
Adopted Forms
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 440, Bomb Threat Aid
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1219, BCE Multi-Craft Job Order
AF Form 1297, Temporary Issue Receipt

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AT—Antiterrorism
DoD—Department of Defense
FPCON—Force Protection Condition
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RAM—Random Antiterrorism Measure
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SIP—Shelter in Place
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI31-102 6 OCTOBER 2011                                                              9


                                        Attachment 2
                HARMON HALL EVACUATION NOTIFICATION / MAP

A2.1. Threat/Fire information is passed to 911 THEN to USAFA Command Center, 333-2633.
A2.2. The USAFA Command Center directs evacuation over Harmon Hall Public Address
System.
A2.3. The USAFA Command Center directs evacuation via e-mail to HARMON HALL_ALL
group.
A2.4. HQ USAFA/DSE sends runners to verbally alert entire facility after first Command
Center Alert.
A2.5. Once notified, all Harmon Hall staff and visitors follow procedures noted below:

Figure A2.1. Harmon Hall Evacuation Procedure.
 10                                                                                             USAFAI31-102 6 OCTOBER 2011


                                                                  Attachment 3
                                        THREAT RESPONSE PLAN CHECKLIST

Figure A3.1. Threat Response Plan Checklist.
                                 THREAT RESPONSE PLAN CHECKLIST                                                                   Complete
Telephone Bomb Threat:
Remain calm - use AF Form 440, Bomb Threat Aid to document the call.
The individual receiving the threat w ill hold up the bomb threat card; this allow s the call to be monitored by more than one
person, and enables another individual to notif y management and security.
Af ter the threat has been made and the caller hangs up, the f ollow ing steps need to take place:
Pick up the same line the threat came in and dial *57 (this marks the previous number to help w ith the trace). You’ll hear
tw o quick tones and the line automatically disconnects.
Call security f orces, 911 or 333-2000/2001 to report the threat. DO NOT USE a phone near the location of suspicious
object, if know n. DO NOT USE cell phone inside building.
Af ter evaluating the credibility of the threat, the incident commander w ill decide w hether to take no action, perf orm a
search, or initiate a partial or complete evacuation.

Written Bomb Threat:
Call security f orces, 911 or 333-2000/2001 to report the threat and its location.
Avoid unnecessary handling and protect document af ter it has been determined to be a threat.
Af ter evaluating the credibility of the threat, the incident commander w ill decide w hether to take no action, perf orm a
search, or initiate a partial or complete evacuation.

Suspicious Package/Letter/Unattended Items
Do not accept a suspicious package/letter.
Do not handle a package/letter/unattended item.
Do not smoke in the vicinity of the object.
Do not change the f acility's environment: leave lights on if they w ere on, or leave them of f if they w ere of f . Do not use
electrical devices (radios, cell phones, f ire alarms, etc.).
Call security f orces, 911 or 333-2000/2001 to report the object.
Notif y chain of command and f acility occupants of object and its location.
Identif y the danger area and block it of f w ith a clear zone of at least 500', including f loors above and below the object.

Af ter evaluating the credibility of the threat, the incident commander w ill determine w hether to evacuate the f acility.
Bef ore you leave, remember all the details (appearance, location, etc.) about the object to inf orm Security Forces
personnel.

After Notification or Identification, but Before Evacuation:
Occupants perf orm a quick search of w orkspace. If suspicious objects are noticed, DO NOT TOUCH, ref er to suspicious
objects checklist.
Do not change the f acility's environment: leave lights on if they w ere on, or leave them of f if they w ere of f . Do not use
electrical devices (radios, cell phones, f ire alarms, etc.).
If possible, take your personal items such as brief cases, backpacks, and handbags w ith you because it eliminates
objects f or search teams to consider.
Evacuation:
Evacuate the f acility per f acility evacuation plan or as instructed by the incident commander. (alternate evacuation points
betw een threats, do not go to the same location each time).
Proceed to assembly points designated on evacuation plan, at least 500' f rom f acility.
Ensure the evacuation point is f ree f rom objects (cars, trash containers, etc.) in case a secondary device has been
placed or hidden.
Personnel w ho received the threat or identif ied the suspicious object need to meet w ith Security Forces personnel on the
scene and provide as much detailed inf ormation as possible. The more inf ormation the better.

White Powdery Substance:
Do not shake or empty the contents f rom package or envelope.
If already spilled do not try to clean it up.
Place package or envelope in a plastic bag or some type of container to prevent it f rom leaking.
If a container or plastic bag is not available, COVER the envelope or package w ith anything (e.g., clothing, paper, trash
can, etc.) and do not remove this cover.
Leave the room and secure the door or section of f the area to prevent others f rom entering but do not evacuate the
building until instructed to do so by the incident commander. Room may become a crime scene.
Contact security f orces, 911 or 333-2000/2001 to report the incident.
Wash hands w ith soap and w ater to prevent spreading pow der.
Shut of f HVAC system if f acility has emegercy shut dow n sw itch.
