BY ORDER OF THE                                          HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                          ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 32-1007

                                                                                5 JUNE 2012

                                                                            Civil Engineering

                                                  PREPARATION AND USE OF USAFA
                                              FORM 135, REQUEST FOR AIRFIELD AND
                                                        AIRSPACE CRITERIA WAIVER

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 CES/CEAO                                                    Certified by: 10 CES/CEA
                                                                              (Mr. Ray Magee)
                                                                                      Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-10, Installations and
Facilities. This instruction identifies procedures for completing United States Air Force
Academy (USAFA) Form 135, Request for Airfield and Airspace Criteria Waiver. This
instruction applies to the 10th Civil Engineer Squadron (10 CES), USAFA Airfield Management
(306 OSS) and all coordinating offices. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force
(AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1
for a glossary of references and supporting information.

1. Procedures. The Base Civil Engineer’s (BCE) designated representative initiates a USAFA
Form 135 when a construction activity violates airfield imaginary surfaces, safe clearance, or
other design criteria specified in Unified Facilities Criteria (UFC) 3-260-01, Airfield and
Heliport Planning and Design. USAFA Flying and Ground Safety and Airfield Management
will ensure an Operational Risk Management (ORM) Risk Assessment (RA) is performed and
documented on all proposed waiver requests before coordination. All USAFA Forms 135
require an attachment that includes a site map and applicable photographs describing the
obstruction.
 2                                                                 USAFAI32-1007 5 JUNE 2012


     1.1. Temporary Waivers. Establish temporary waivers for correctable airfield obstructions.
     Temporary waiver requests must include the action planned to correct the violation, the
     project number or work order number, estimated completion date, risk assessment code, and
     cost estimate.
     1.2. Permanent Waivers. Establish permanent waivers for obstructions that cannot
     reasonably be corrected and pose little or no threat to flying operations. Violations caused by
     natural geographic features, a result from constraints due to construction of the airfield under
     a previous less-stringent standard are examples of where permanent waivers are appropriate.
     1.3. Temporary Construction Waivers. Establish temporary construction waivers for any
     construction activity that violates airfield imaginary surfaces, safe clearance, or other design
     criteria specified in UFC 3-260-01 during or after the completion of the construction activity.
     This includes all construction equipment, vehicles, and people. Requests for waivers must be
     submitted at least 60 days before the start of construction. All Temporary Construction
     Waivers must be analyzed to determine potential impacts to aircraft operations before
     construction activities begin.
2. Coordination Requirements. All Temporary and Permanent Waivers must be coordinated
with all the mandatory coordinators (see back of USAFA Form 135) before submission to the
Vice Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CV) for approval. All Temporary Construction Waivers must
be coordinated with all the mandatory coordinators before submission to the 10th Air Base Wing
Commander (10 ABW/CC) for approval. The waiver coordination package shall include a Staff
Summary Sheet (SSS), USAFA Form 135 with applicable attachments, and a RA. All waivers
must be maintained for record with all pertinent documents relative to each waiver, including a
record of staff coordination on actions.
3. Annual Waiver Review. All Temporary and Permanent Waivers must be reviewed annually.




                                               MARK A. RUSSO, Lt Col, USAF
                                               Commander, 10th Civil Engineer Squadron
USAFAI32-1007 5 JUNE 2012                                                                      3


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 32-10, Installations and Facilities, 4 March 2010
UFC 3-260-01, Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design, 17 November 2008
Prescribed Forms
USAFA Form 135, Request for Airfield and Airspace Criteria Waiver
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
10 ABW—10th Air Base Wing
10 CES—10th Civil Engineer Squadron
306 OSS—306th Operations Support Squadron
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
BCE—Base Civil Engineer
IAW—In Accordance With
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORM—Operational Risk Management
RA—Risk Assessment
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SSS—Staff Summary Sheet
UFC—Unified Facilities Criteria
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy

Terms
Imaginary Surface—Surfaces in space established around airfields in relation to runway(s),
helipad(s), or helicopter runway(s) that are designed to define the obstacle free airspace around
 4                                                              USAFAI32-1007 5 JUNE 2012


the airfield. The imaginary surfaces for DOD airfields are the primary surface, the approach-
departure clearance surface, the transitional surface, the inner horizontal surface, the conical
surface (fixed-wing only), and the outer horizontal surface (fixed-wing only).
Obstruction—Natural or man-made objects that violate airfield or heliport clearances or
projects into an imaginary airspace surface.
Operational Risk Management—A continuous process designed to detect, assess, and control
risk while enhancing performance and maximizing combat capabilities.
Permanent Waiver—Airfield waiver established for violations that cannot be reasonably
corrected and pose little or no threat to flying operations. Violations caused by natural
geographic features or facilities located off installation and not under USAFA control are
examples of cases where permanent waivers are appropriate. Permanent waiver requests are
approved by the USAFA Vice Superintendent and require an annual submittal.
Risk Assessment—The process of detecting hazards and their causes, and systematically
assessing the associated risks.
Staff Summary Sheet—Introduces, summarizes, coordinates, or obtains approval or signature
on a staff package.
Temporary Construction Waiver—A temporary airfield waiver used to identify, coordinate,
and approve construction activity on or near the airfield. The 10th Air Base Wing Commander is
the construction waiver approval authority. Construction waivers apply to airfield systems,
facilities, and on base facilities where construction activity will require equipment or stockpile
areas that may adversely affect flying operations.
Temporary Waiver—Airfield waiver established for correctable obstructions. Temporary
waiver requests are approved by the USAFA Vice Superintendent and require an annual
submittal.
