BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER,                              UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                       INSTRUCTION 36-706
(USAFE)                                                                             19 FEBRUARY 2008
                                                                           Certified Current 11 May 2011
                                                                                               Personnel

                                                              COOPERATION BETWEEN THE
                                                               CONTROLLING AND SERVICE
                                                    DIRECTORATE, FOREIGN FORCES PAYROLL
                                                      OFFICE AND U.S. AIR FORCE (GERMANY)

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/A1CP                                                        Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1C
                                                                                    (Mr. Robert C. Maier)
Supersedes USAFEI36-706, 24 May 1999                                                           Pages: 10

This instruction implements AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations. It outlines the
responsibilities of the Rhineland - Palatinate Controlling and Service Directorate (Aufsichts- und Dien-
stleistungsdirektion), Foreign Forces Payroll Office (Lohnstelle ausländische Streitkräfte) (CSD-FFPO)
in cooperation with the organizations of the United States (U.S.) Air Force in Germany relative to payroll
operations for local national (LN) employees administered by a U.S. Air Force Civilian Personnel Flight
(CPF) under the terms of the Collective Tariff Agreement, 16 December 1966 for the Employees of the
Sending States Forces in the Federal Republic of Germany (CTA II). This publication does not apply to
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or the Air National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all records cre-
ated as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in AFRIMS (AF Portal).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The revision reflects the
change of the time and attendance program from TALON to Local National Time and Attendance Pro-
gram (LNTAP) serving as the basis for the payroll administration (paragraph 3.); newly describes respon-
sibilities (paragraph 1.3.) and procedures regarding data feedback (paragraph 1.5.), tariff increases
(paragraph 2.3.), provision of and accounting for funds (paragraph 4.), and reimbursements (paragraph
5.); deletes provisions regarding temporary duty and orders of attachment; includes editorial changes and
updates office designations of responsible offices of the U.S. Air Force as well as the German administra-
tion offices throughout the document as follows: HQ USAFE Civilian Personnel, DPC to HQ USAFE/
A1C; 26 Accounting & Finance Squadron (26 AFS) to Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS);
Office of Defense Cost (ODC) to Control and Services Directorate/Foreign Forces Payroll Office
(CSD-FFPO); Labor Office (Arbeitsamt) to Labor Agency (Agentur für Arbeit).
2                                                                USAFEI36-706 19 FEBRUARY 2008


1. GENERAL.
    1.1. Purpose. This instruction establishes policies and procedures for cooperation between the
    Rhineland-Palatinate Controlling and Service Directorate (Aufsichts- und Dienstleistungsdirektion),
    Foreign Forces Payroll Office (Lohnstelle ausländische Streitkräfte) (CSD-FFPO), and the U.S. Air
    Force organizations as they relate to payments to LN employees in Germany, as well as the represen-
    tation of the U.S. Air Force in labor litigation.
    1.2. Policy. The representatives of the CSD-FFPO and the organizations of the U.S. Air Force will
    cooperate professionally, closely, and trustfully to ensure timely and accurate performance of payroll
    functions.
    1.3. Responsibilities.
       1.3.1. Management will:
           1.3.1.1. Ensure their respective organizational elements cooperate professionally with the
           CSD-FFPO.
           1.3.1.2. Refrain from giving instructions to the CSD-FFPO. CSD-FFPO operates according to
           the German public service rules.
       1.3.2. HQ USAFE/A1C will:
           1.3.2.1. Resolve problems in the cooperation between the U.S. Air Force and the CSD-FFPO.
           1.3.2.2. Review and, in cooperation with the Rhineland-Palatinate Ministry of the Interior and
           for Sports (RP-ISM), decide upon doubtful personnel or pay actions reported by the
           CSD-FFPO.
           1.3.2.3. Review and decide upon requests for overtariff supplements (OTS) in coordination
           with Headquarter United States Army in Europe/ Seventh Army (HQ USAREUR/7A) and the
           Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF), as appropriate.
       1.3.3. CPFs will:
           1.3.3.1. Serve as the primary point of contact for the CSD-FFPO and perform liaison func-
           tions with the serviced organizations, to ensure proper exchange of information.
           1.3.3.2. Report problems encountered with the CSD-FFPO services through official channels
           to HQ USAFE/A1C.
       1.3.4. The Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Europe (DFAS-EUR) and the responsi-
       ble Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Accounts Payable Offices will:
           1.3.4.1. Provide CSD-FFPO in a timely manner with sufficient funds to ensure correct pay-
           ments of earnings.
           1.3.4.2. Serve as the primary point of contact for the CSD-FFPO for finance and accounting
           matters regarding appropriated fund (AF) and nonappropriated fund (NAF) payroll obliga-
           tions.
       1.3.5. Resource Management Offices:
           1.3.5.1. Verify that the following data are entered correctly on USAFE Form 52, Request for
           Personnel Action - Non-US (Germany) (electronically in Defense Civilian Personnel Data
USAFEI36-706 19 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                        3


        System (DCPDS)): Personnel Accounting System (PAS) Code, Manpower Position Control
        Number (MPCN), Accounts Title (Operating Budget Activity Number (OBAN)/Fund Code
        (FC)/Budget Activity Code (BA)), Fiscal Station Number (FSN), Responsibility Center/Cost
        Center (RC/CC), and Program Element Code (PEC).
        1.3.5.2. Furnish information concerning changes of above (paragraph 1.3.5.1.) data to the
        CPF for forwarding to the CSD-FFPO.
     1.3.6. Controlling and Service Directorate, Foreign Forces Payroll Office will:
        1.3.6.1. Cooperate closely and trustfully with U.S. Air Force organizations, in particular with
        the CPFs and the Resource Management Offices.
        1.3.6.2. Provide services in accordance with the administrative agreements on the perfor-
        mance of administrative work for the area of the Foreign Forces, as well as mutually agreed
        instructions or policies.
        1.3.6.3. Advise HQ USAFE/A1C of problem areas in the cooperation with U.S. Air Force
        organizations.
        1.3.6.4. Review documentation received from U.S. Air Force for obvious errors, and correct
        them in close coordination with the requester.
        1.3.6.5. Effect payments as requested by the appropriate authorities of the U.S. Air Force.
        Unusual or doubtful personnel or payment authorizations will be reported immediately to HQ
        USAFE/A1C. Such payments will be suspended until United States Air Forces in Europe
        (USAFE) has decided on how to proceed.
        1.3.6.6. Report requests for overtariff supplements (OTS) to HQ USAFE/A1C in case no prior
        Headquarters approval was granted (re paragraph 1.3.2.3. above). CSD-FFPO will not honor
        OTS requests unless HQ USAFE/A1C approval is granted.
        1.3.6.7. Perform liaison function with health and retirement insurance carriers and labor agen-
        cies.
        1.3.6.8. Act on behalf of the U.S. Air Force in Rhineland-Palatinate in lawsuits in accordance
        with Article 1, Paragraph (2) (e) of the Administrative Agreement implementing Art 56, Para-
        graph (10) of the Agreement to Supplement the Agreement between the Parties of the North
        Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of their Forces with Respect to Foreign Forces Stationed
        in the Federal Republic of Germany, dated 3 August 1959, concluded between the FMF and
        HQ USAREUR, 20/30 October 1995. (Representation in lawsuits outside Rhineland-Palati-
        nate is assigned to law firms selected by the U.S. Forces in coordination with the FMF). (Refer
        to USAFEI 36-722, Labor Litigation Non-US Citizen Employees (Germany) for details).
  1.4. Service Requests.
     1.4.1. HQ USAFE/A1C reserves the right to request CSD-FFPO services not covered under this
     instruction.
     1.4.2. If USAFE organizations require special services not covered by this instruction, they will
     route a corresponding request with justification through the CPF to HQ USAFE/A1C. If requests
     are considered justified, HQ USAFE/A1C will coordinate proceedings with the Rhineland Palati-
     nate Ministry of Interior (RP-MoI) and inform the requester.
4                                                               USAFEI36-706 19 FEBRUARY 2008


    1.5. Monthly Payroll Data Feedback. By the end of each month, CSD-FFPO will provide the U.S.
    Air Force the data of the last payroll run. HQ USAFE/A1C will evaluate the data for personnel cost
    factors and other personnel management reports and clarify questions and problems in close coopera-
    tion with the CSD-FFPO and/or the RP-ISM. Discrepancies concerning individual employees may be
    resolved directly between the local CPFs and the CSD-FFPO.
    1.6. Contingency Planning. The CSD-FFPO has agreed to accept manual AE Form 690-99B, Ger-
    man Time and Attendance Report if an emergency causes technical problems preventing electronic
    submission of the data.
    1.7. Official Language. Unless agreed upon differently in individual cases, correspondence between
    CSD-FFPO and U.S. Air Force organizations will be in German.

2. PERSONNEL ACTIONS.
    2.1. Initiation of Personnel Actions. Personnel actions will be initiated by the employing organiza-
    tion on a Request for Personnel Action (RPA). The CPF will generate an AF Form 825, Notification
    of Personnel Action/Bestätigung einer Personalmaßnahme (Non-US (Germany)), and forward it to
    the CSD-FFPO.
    2.2. Appointments and Separations.
       2.2.1. Upon appointment, CSD-FFPO will register employees with the insurance carriers (e.g.,
       social insurance, group life insurance).
       2.2.2. Upon separation or retirement, CSD-FFPO will de-register the employee from respective
       insurance carriers and issue the required documents. In particular, CSD-FFPO will issue:
           2.2.2.1. The group life insurance certificate.
           2.2.2.2. The pertinent documents for the labor agency or retirement insurance carriers; they
           will be forwarded to the CPF for completion.
       2.2.3. Upon employee separation, the CPF will:
           2.2.3.1. Inform the CSD-FFPO if an employee is ineligible for indemnity payments by entry
           of the respective remark on AF Form 825.
           2.2.3.2. Respond to inquiries from the labor agency or retirement insurance carriers forwarded
           by the CSD-FFPO.
       2.2.4. The employing organization will provide the separating employee an annual leave state-
       ment in accordance with Article 6 (2), Federal Leave Act.
    2.3. Tariff Increases.
       2.3.1. The CSD-FFPO will automatically affect regular tariff increases based on pay schedules
       provided by the FMF. The CPF will follow up with corresponding personnel actions documenting
       the implemented tariff increase.
       2.3.2. For pay increases involving individual manual adjustments (e.g., overtariff supplements
       and incumbency allowances), the CPF will complete an AF Form 825 and forward it to the
       CSD-FFPO.

3. COMPUTATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF MONTHLY PAYMENTS.
USAFEI36-706 19 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                            5


  3.1. Wage and Salary Administration.
     3.1.1. A listing of payroll services provided by the CSD-FFPO is contained in the Administrative
     Agreement between the FMF and HQ USAREUR (re: paragraph 1.3.6.8.).
     3.1.2. Instructions for the Time and Attendance Reporting procedures using the LNTAP program
     are contained in USAFE Instruction 36-709, Time and Attendance Reporting for Non-US Citizen
     Employees.
  3.2. Health Insurance Information. CSD-FFPO will immediately forward information received
  from social insurance carriers regarding the sick status of an employee (e.g., paid or unpaid sick leave,
  cure leave, accident) to the employing organization.
  3.3. Disbursement of Earnings.
     3.3.1. CSD-FFPO will transfer earnings into the employee’s bank account no later than the last
     banking day for the respective month.
     3.3.2. If the CSD-FFPO cannot enter the data of a new employee into the payroll system prior to
     the monthly payroll cutoff date the employee will receive an advanced partial payment based on
     the estimated income.
     3.3.3. If an employee was underpaid by more than _100 by fault of the CSD-FFPO or a U.S. Air
     Force organization, the CSD-FFPO will disburse the appropriate amount separately.
  3.4. Awards Payments. Payment of awards/bonuses is based on individual requests submitted by the
  CPF. They will be disbursed together with the monthly earnings. No separate payments (e.g. checks)
  will be affected.
  3.5. Pay Statements. Pay statements will only be generated if the earnings for the respective month
  deviate from the earnings for the preceding month. The CSD-FFPO will mail pay statements to the
  address provided on the AF Form 825.

4. PROVISION OF AND ACCOUNTING FOR FUNDS.
  4.1. Provision of Funds.
     4.1.1. The CSD-FFPO will prepare the requests for funds required to cover wages/salaries, taxes,
     social security contributions, and travel expenses for the current month and will forward a single
     copy to the servicing finance office.
         4.1.1.1. Amounts required for wage/salary advances from appropriated funds or non-appro-
         priated funds will be requested on form F 2-70, Fund Requirements for Local National Pay-
         rolls from the servicing finance office.
         4.1.1.2. Amounts required for travel advances from appropriated funds or non-appropriated
         funds will be requested on form F 2-70a, Fund Requirements for Travel Expenses from the ser-
         vicing finance office.
         4.1.1.3. The forms (F 2-70 and F 2-70a) will be provided by the CSD-FFPO.
     4.1.2. CSD-FFPO will obtain advance payments based on funds requests from DFAS-EUR for
     organizations funded with U.S. Air Force and Department of Defense (DoD) appropriated funds,
     and from the responsible NAF Accounts Payable Offices for organizations funded with nonappro-
6                                                                 USAFEI36-706 19 FEBRUARY 2008


       priated funds. Balances not disbursed for the previous month will be indicated on form F 2-70
       when requesting the advance for the current month.
       4.1.3. The servicing finance office will initiate bank transfers in Euro currency from the military
       banking facility (MBF) to the CSD-FFPO bank account indicated on forms F 2-70 and F 2-70a.
       Bank transfers will be accomplished in a manner ensuring timely credit entry on the CSD-FFPO
       account. In detail, the amounts in paragraph 4.1.1.1. are composed as follows:

Table 1. Money from appropriated funds.
Type of advance payment         CSD-FFPO funding request             CSD-FFPO due date
a) Social security              First workday following the 9th   6 bank workdays - Not later than
contributions                   day of the current calendar month (NLT) 1000 - before the last workday
                                                                  of the month (section 23 Social
                                                                  Security Code IV)
b) Payroll costs; e.g., net     First workday following the 9th   3 bank workdays - NLT 1000 -
wages, attachment amounts,      day of the current calendar month before disbursement day (section 22
payments for property                                             paragraph 1 CTA II)
accrual, group life insurance
c) Final payment payroll        Within 3 workdays following          3 bank workdays - NLT 1000 -
costs for the current month;    completion of payroll processing     before the legal deadline 10th
e.g., wage taxes, church        for the current month                calendar day of the following month
taxes, solidarity tax                                                (section 41a Income Tax Law)
contribution
Other advance payments         Request of funds by CSD-FFPO          As specifically requested by the
upon explicit request from the as required                           CSD-FFPO
CSD-FFPO; e.g., tariff
increases

           4.1.3.1. Money from nonappropriated funds. In deviation from above procedures, the social
           security contributions, payroll costs, and final payroll costs for the current calendar month will
           be requested in a single amount for the first workday following the 9th calendar day of the cur-
           rent calendar month. Payment is due 6 workdays - NLT 1000 - before the last workday of the
           month.
       4.1.4. The CSD-FFPO also requires funds (reserve funds) in order to effect payments between the
       monthly funding requests (e.g., partial payments for newly hired employees, other payments that
       are due prior to the due dates listed above). The amount of these reserve funds will be determined
       by mutual agreement between the headquarters of the respective force and the CSD-FFPO and be
       regularly reevaluated and adjusted as appropriate. These reserve funds are listed on the respective
       compilations of receipts and expenses.
       4.1.5. The form SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than Personal will
       be used for the disbursement. In connection with the bank transfer, DFAS-EUR/NAF will forward
       a copy of the funding requests F 2-70 and F 2-70a, together with a copy of the respective MBF
       Euro currency transfer order and payment voucher, SF 1034, to the CSD-FFPO.
    4.2. Accounting for Funds.
USAFEI36-706 19 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                         7


     4.2.1. Upon receipt of the final payment, the CSD-FFPO will compile a list of receipts and
     expenses at the beginning of the following calendar month and will forward it to the servicing
     finance office.
     4.2.2. Upon receipt of these documents, DFAS-EUR (for appropriated funds) and the responsible
     NAF office will perform an administrative review to verify that the amounts furnished by the
     CSD-FFPO correspond to the data provided electronically. In the event of discrepancies,
     DFAS-EUR/NAF will coordinate with the CSD-FFPO to identify the causes of the discrepancies
     and initiate corrective action if the discrepancies were caused by U.S. Air Force procedures.
     4.2.3. The CSD-FFPO will cooperate with DFAS-EUR/NAF and take the necessary corrective
     measures if discrepancies are determined to be caused by CSD-FFPO procedures or systems.

5. REIMBURSEMENT TO THE U.S. AIR FORCE.
  5.1. General. Reimbursements covered by this section will be credited to the payroll accounts they
  were originally paid from.
  5.2. Collection of Overpayments.
     5.2.1. To the extent possible, CSD-FFPO will collect overpayments by deduction from the follow-
     ing month’s pay.
     5.2.2. Payments that cannot be retrieved as prescribed in paragraph 5.2.1. will be recovered in
     accordance with the principles governing the collection of overpayments from German Federal
     Government public servants established by the Federal Ministry of Interior (FMI) and Article 49,
     CTA II, Preclusive Time Limits.
     5.2.3. CSD-FFPO will inform HQ USAFE/A1C of any changes of the FMI collection policy.
  5.3. Claims Against Employees.
     5.3.1. Upon receipt of a request for collection, the CSD-FFPO will inform the requesting agency,
     in writing, of the date of commencement of collection. Orders of attachment against the same
     employee, received by the CSD-FFPO before the U.S. Air Force’s request, will take precedence
     and may delay payroll deductions. The CSD-FFPO will inform the requesting agency if collection
     cannot be continued due to termination of employment.
     5.3.2. The collected amounts will be handled as credit entries.
     5.3.3. When an employee is dismissed for property offenses (e.g., theft, fraud), the monetary dam-
     age caused by intentional, unlawful acts will be offset against any payment still due the employee.
     The employing organization will request, through the CPF, that the CSD-FFPO withhold the
     amount claimed by the U.S. Air Force from payments due to the employee. Collected amounts
     will be handled as credit entries.
  5.4. Third Party Liability/Reimbursements. Information concerning the liable party in case of
  unfitness for work caused by a third party will be provided to the CSD-FFPO by means of a Declara-
  tion of Assignment. The CSD-FFPO will provide the preprinted form of the Declaration of Assign-
  ment. Amounts received in accordance with the provisions of Article 30 CTA II, Sick Pay in Case of
  Third Party Liability, will be handled as credit entries. The same applies to the reimbursement of
  employer contributions to maternity benefits from the health insurance. The employing organizations
8                                                          USAFEI36-706 19 FEBRUARY 2008


    will inform the CSD-FFPO immediately of employment prohibition for female employees so that
    reimbursement entitlements may be claimed.
    5.5. Forms Adopted. AF Form 825, Notification of Personnel Action/Bestätigung einer Personal-
    maßnahme (Non-US (Germany)); SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than
    Personal; USAFE Form 52, Request for Personnel Action -Non-US (Germany; AE From 690-99B,
    German Time and Attendance Report; F 2-70, Fund Requirements for Local National Payrolls; F
    2-70a, Fund Requirements for Travel Expenses.



                                           JOHNNIE SEWARD, Colonel, USAF
                                           Director, Manpower and Personnel
USAFEI36-706 19 FEBRUARY 2008                                                                         9


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations, 11 January 1994
USAFEI 36-709, Time and Attendance Reporting for Non-US Citizen Employees, 12 January 2006
USAFEI 36-722, Labor Litigation Non-US Citizen Employees (Germany), 30 July 2004
Article 56, Supplementary Agreement to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Status of Forces
Agreement
Administrative Agreement Implementing Article 56, Paragraph (10) of the Agreement to Supplement the
Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of their Forces with
Respect to Foreign Forces Stationed in the Federal Republic of Germany, dated 3 August 1959 (as of
October 1995)
CTA II, Collective Tariff Agreement for the Employees of the Sending States Forces in the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany
Bundesurlaubsgesetz (Federal Leave Act)
Einkommenssteuergesetz (Income Tax Law)
Sozialgesetzbuch IV (Code of Social Laws IV)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Appropriated Funds
BA—Budget Activity
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CSD-FFPO—Control and Services Directorate-Foreign Forces Payroll Office
CTA II—Collective Tariff Agreement for the Employees of the Sending States Forces in the Federal
Republic of Germany
DCPDS—Defense Civilian Personnel Data System
DFAS-EUR—Defense Finance and Accounting Service, Europe
FC—Fund Code
FMF—Federal Ministry of Finance
FMI—Federal Ministry of the Interior
FSN—Fiscal Station Number
ISM-RP—Rhineland Palatinate Ministry of the Interior and for Sports
LN—Local National
LNTAP—Local National Time and Attendance Program
10                                         USAFEI36-706 19 FEBRUARY 2008


MBF—Military Banking Facility
MPCN—Manpower Position Control Number
NAF—Nonappropriated Funds
OBAN—Operating Budget Activity Number
ODC—Office of Defense Cost
OTS—Overtariff Supplements
PAS—Personnel Accounting System
PEC—Program Element Code
RC/CC—Responsibility Center/Cost Center
RPA—Request for Personnel Action
U.S.—United States
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USAREUR—United States Army, Europe
