BY ORDER OF THE                                            HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 41-101

                                                                                   5 JUNE 2012

                                                                                Health Services

                                                PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATION (PAD)
                                                                         PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 10 MDOS/SGOE                                                     Certified by: 10 MDG/CC
                                                                      (Col Timothy D. Ballard)
                                                                                       Pages: 17
Supersedes:   USAFAI41-201,
              21 March 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 41-1, Health Care Programs
and Resources. This instruction serves as a guide for the deployment of the Public Access
Defibrillation (PAD) Program at the US Air Force Academy. The PAD program employs an
Automated External Defibrillator (AED) to be used in an emergency response to Sudden Cardiac
Arrest (SCA) as a means to decrease premature mortality. This instruction identifies the lines of
responsibility and provides guidelines to ensure an appropriate response to such an event. This
instruction applies to all United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) personnel. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication, to 10 MDOS/SGOIE, 4102 Pinion Dr, USAF Academy CO 80840. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of
in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information. The use of the name
or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                  USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Signature authority for this publication has been elevated to Air Base Wing level. Variable
information on number of AED units and their location on the USAF Academy has been
removed from this document. Guidance on where to reference the current number and location
of AED units has been included in this document. Information on current cost for AED training
has been removed. Roles and Responsibilities, has been extensively updated.
1. Concept of PAD: About 325,000 people die each year from sudden cardiac arrest. Most
cardiac arrests are due to underlying heart disease and result in irregular rhythms called
ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. These dysrhythmias cause the heart’s pumping
action to stop abruptly and the victim to lose consciousness and become pulseless and breathless.
If not treated promptly, death will follow within minutes. The technique of delivering an
electrical shock, called defibrillation, is the only known treatment for ventricular fibrillation and
pulseless ventricular tachycardia. To be effective, defibrillation must be administered within
minutes of a cardiac arrest. For every minute that passes without defibrillation, a victim’s
chance of survival decreases by 7 to 10 percent. After as little as 10 minutes, very few
resuscitation attempts are successful. In the past, the ability to defibrillate was solely in the
hands of trained emergency medical personnel, who may have exceedingly long response times.
With the advent of the Automated External Defibrillator (AED), a trained rescuer or lay person
can quickly and easily defibrillate a cardiac arrest victim and save lives. New generation AEDs
are safe, effective, lightweight, low-maintenance, and relatively inexpensive. In August 2003,
the Secretary of Defense mandated that military installations establish Public Access
Defibrillation (PAD) programs with consideration for potential placement of AEDs in federal
buildings.
2. Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.1. The 10th Air Base Wing Commander (10 ABW/CC):
        2.1.1. Has overall responsibility for the PAD program and directs the 10th Medical
        Group Commander (10 MDG/CC) to implement the program.
     2.2. The 10th Medical Group Commander (10 MDG/CC):
        2.2.1. Publishes local guidance to units, tenants, lessees, and occupants of federal
        facilities to execute the PAD program in accordance with this and applicable MAJCOM
        instructions.
        2.2.2. For multitenant facilities having occupants other than Air Force, guidelines may
        be found in 41CFR 101-20.103 (Physical Protection and Building Security) to assure
        clarity of responsibility and accountability.
        2.2.3. Appoints in writing a host installation PAD Program Coordinator (PPC). This
        duty position is AFSC neutral.
        2.2.4. Appoints in writing a host installation PAD Medical Director (PMD) to provide
        clinical oversight of the host installation PAD program. The MTF Chief of Staff (SGH)
        or MTF Chief Flight Surgeon (SGP) should provide recommendation(s) for this
        appointment.
USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012                                                                         3


     2.2.5. Ensures access to AHA Heartsaver AED Course for Lay Rescuers and First
     Responders. AEDs, by virtue of their simplicity, are designed for use by any lay person,
     trained or untrained. However, AED orientation and familiarity will make the user, in the
     event of sudden cardiac arrest, more likely to utilize and deliver defibrillation earlier.
     This training may be obtained from any source that provides Military Training Network
     (MTN) approved training.
     2.2.6. Ensures accountability for AED devices IAW AF Instructions.
     2.2.7. Ensures every organization appoints a site coordinator or facility manager to meet
     the guidelines and functional recommendations set forth in this instruction.
     2.2.8. Ensures units and organizations obtain AEDs consistent with host installation
     requirements and AFI 41-209, Medical Logistics Support, paragraph 7.28.
     2.2.9. Tracks utilization and maintains record of use of PAD AEDs.
     2.2.10. Coordinates unit and base PAD program processes with stakeholders and the
     base emergency response plan.
  2.3. Host Installation PPC will:
     2.3.1. Be at minimum a current basic life support (BLS) instructor and preferentially
     Training Site Faculty. These are typically assigned to the MTF.
     2.3.2. Refer organizations to training using MTN-approved courses, such as the
     American Heart Association (AHA) Heartsaver AED certification curriculum. Any
     nationally recognized AED/CPR certification accepted by MTN at the time of
     certification qualifies for this requirement.
     2.3.3. Assist site coordinators with all post-use activities including but not limited to
     event data documentation, loaner acquisition, and traumatic stress response debriefing.
     2.3.4. Serve as the primary liaison between the PMD, site coordinators, biomedical
     maintenance, and medical logistics regarding purchases, recalls, and other notifications.
     2.3.5. Maintain a current list of site coordinators. All communications regarding AEDs
     will be appropriately distributed by the PPC to site coordinators. The PPC will define a
     period to update the list, but no less frequently than annually, e.g., end of calendar year.
     2.3.6. Maintain a current list of AED locations and archive past lists for at least thirty-six
     (36) months. The PPC will define a period to update the list, but no less frequently than
     annually, e.g., end of calendar year.
     2.3.7. Perform a staff assistant visit (SAV) on each unit every 12 months and provide the
     Unit Commander with a copy of the completed SAV checklist outlining any notable areas
     of concern. Use USAFA Form 124, Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) Program Staff
     Assistance Visit (SAV) Checklist, available on the AF e-Publishing website, to perform
     the SAV.
  2.4. Host Installation PMD will:
     2.4.1. Be a US-licensed physician proficient in Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)
     and the use of AEDs IAW state and local laws and CASA.
4                                                                 USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012


       2.4.2. Ensure AED procured under this instruction comply with AF and Federal
       regulations. The MD’s signature on the purchase order will serve as the physician
       prescription as required by FDA regulation(s), and must become a permanent record for
       the purchase (paper or electronic). The order (and prescription if signed separately) will
       be sufficiently detailed to identify the make and model of the AED(s) and the acquisition
       order.
       2.4.3. Ensure the AEDs proposed for purchase adequately services predicted public
       needs, to include ease of use, predicted potential patient populations (to include children,
       adults, and the elderly), and operations which might place populations at risk within host
       installation AF facilities.
       2.4.4. Provide oversight for training, ensures coordination with emergency medical
       responders, have familiarity with clinical protocols, and recommend AED deployment
       strategies in coordination with the PPC.
       2.4.5. Ensure local policies allow appropriate medical AED summary information be
       forwarded to the treating medical facility no later than the COB of the next duty day
       following the event.
       2.4.6. Review the event summary sheet and deliver to SGH by COB of the next duty day
       with comments as deemed necessary. SGH will forward reports to AFMOA/SGHQ IAW
       existing Quality Assurance processes.
       2.4.7. Consult with organizations regarding medical utilization and will provide medical
       guidance as needed to assist the PPC in keeping the host installation program current.
       2.4.8. Must delegate these tasks to a qualified surrogate during periods where the PMD
       may be unavailable.
    2.5. Unit Commander or Tenant Organization Senior Leader will:
       2.5.1. Implement the PAD program at the unit level.
       2.5.2. Appoint, in writing, a Site Coordinator and alternate, and provide a copy of the
       appointment letter to the PPC. (Attachment 2)
       2.5.3. Appoint targeted responders as identified by Site Coordinators, and ensure they
       receive training and maintain certification currency.
       2.5.4. Take responsibility to ensure Site Coordinators execute AHA Heartsaver AED
       training within the specific roles identified in their position description. The 10 MDG
       Education and Training Office can assist Site Coordinators with establishing Heartsaver
       AED training for their unit.
       2.5.5. Fund the purchase of AED(s) and required supplies through a medical logistics-
       account. This process contributes to AED accountability and management through
       medical logistics.
       2.5.6. Approve a PAD emergency response plan. This plan will, at a minimum:
           2.5.6.1. Be reviewed and submitted to the PPC and PMD at least every two years, or
           not later than 30 days following change(s) to the response plan.
           2.5.6.2. Identify the location(s) of unit PAD AEDs and annotate AEDs not in service.
USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012                                                                     5


         2.5.6.3. Describe the method of emergency medical services (EMS) notification.
         2.5.6.4. Delineate method(s) to notify targeted responders in the event of a suspected
         cardiac emergency.
         2.5.6.5. Identify expeditious building access and egress for EMS personnel in
         consideration of litter or stretcher limitations.
         2.5.6.6. Be readily available for review for all unit site coordinators and targeted
         responders.
         2.5.6.7. Be included or incorporated into the base emergency response plan IAW 41
         CFR 101-20.103-4, Occupancy Emergency Program, as directed by PMD.
  2.6. Site Coordinators will:
     2.6.1. Develop their unit’s PAD emergency response plan and forward the emergency
     response plan through their commander for approval.
     2.6.2. Be current AHA Heartsaver AED or BLS instructor from an MTN approved
     program and appointed in writing by the unit commander.
     2.6.3. Take responsibility for the AED and ensure daily and monthly operational checks
     are conducted. Required inspections will be documented using USAFA Form 123,
     Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Daily Inspection Checklist and USAFA Form
     129, Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Monthly Inspection Checklist. These forms
     will be maintained for 2 years prior to destruction.
     2.6.4. Provide AED training to the targeted responders for unit personnel in the facility
     where the AED(s) are located.
         2.6.4.1. Encourage all Airmen to become targeted responders. In general, where
         sufficient personnel exist, unit training as a group builds a better sense of team
         responsibility than would individual, separate training.
     2.6.5. Maintain a list of trained responders and archive past lists in accordance with the
     RDS T36-28, R05.00. The PPC will define a period to update the list, but no less
     frequently than annually, e.g., the end of the calendar year.
     2.6.6. Conduct periodic practice drills as recommended by the local PAD program
     guidance. Training aids such as a training AED or BLS accessories may be purchased
     using unit or installation funding.
     2.6.7. Ensure cardiac event summary reports are accomplished and forwarded to the
     PPC/PMD by COB the same duty day of the event.
     2.6.8. Identify maintenance resources for non-user maintenance, typically through the
     PPC.
     2.6.9. Generate the AED Summary report (generated by the AED device) after use on a
     patient and deliver the report to the PPC or PMD NLT COB the same duty day of the
     event. If the summary report must be generated from an alternate location, then the Site
     coordinator will deliver the AED to that location and obtain the report NLT COB the
     duty day following the event for urgent delivery to the PPC or PMD.
6                                                                USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012


       2.6.10. Arrange for temporary replacement of an AED that has been sequestered after
       use.
    2.7. Targeted Responder:
       2.7.1. A targeted responder is anyone who is trained to use PAD equipment. All targeted
       responders are volunteers.
       2.7.2. Consideration should be given to:
           2.7.2.1. People typically on the premises during duty hours.
           2.7.2.2. Those who already respond to emergencies as part of their job.
           2.7.2.3. People whose offices are close to the AED location.
           2.7.2.4. Those physically able to perform CPR.
           2.7.2.5. Those willing to respond.
       2.7.3. Targeted responders will:
           2.7.3.1. Be trained in adult BLS to include use of an AED through a MTN-approved
           organization.
           2.7.3.2. Maintain current HS AED or equivalent certification.
           2.7.3.3. Have understanding of the unit PAD emergency response plan and reporting
           tools (forms).
           2.7.3.4. Immediately following the event, notify the Site Coordinator of an
           emergency event requiring use of an AED on a patient.
           2.7.3.5. Will sequester and deliver the AED to the site coordinator NLT COB of the
           duty day of the event.
    2.8. Medical Logistics will:
       2.8.1. Ensure all AED requests and purchases have the PMD’s signed approval prior to
       processing orders. The PMD’s signature will stand as the physician’s prescription as
       directed by FDA regulation(s). The signed approval will become part of the permanent
       record for the purchase. The order or prescription (if signed separately) will be
       sufficiently detailed to identify the make and model of the AED(s). Information on all
       AED purchases will be maintained in a medical logistics tracking system.
       2.8.2. Ensure AED purchases are made IAW with products approved by Air Force
       Clinical Engineering (AFMOA/SGALE).
       2.8.3. Paragraph 3, AED Acquisition, of this USAFAI and its subparts are not retroactive
       to AEDs purchased prior to publication of this instruction. However, when AEDs are
       removed from service for other than user-serviceable maintenance, the serviced AEDs
       must comply with this instruction prior to return to service.
    2.9. Biomedical Maintenance Activity (BMET) will:
       2.9.1. Serve as the POC for Site Coordinators and manufacturer representatives
       concerning problems with AEDs. All AEDs purchased must be loaded into the Medical
USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012                                                                       7


      Logistics under the responsibility center (RC) of the section or organization that will own
      the device.
      2.9.2. Coordinate inspection issues with the host installation safety office and site
      coordinators, working first at the local level whenever possible.          BMET will
      communicate and coordinate lists of all organizations and facilities housing AEDs and
      their specific room locations with Safety. AED locations are not to be changed without
      prior coordination with BMET and Safety to ensure proper tracking, accountability, and
      to guarantee maintenance and recall functions occur in a timely manner.
      2.9.3. Perform inspections or maintenance beyond the capability of the end-user as
      recommended by the AED manufacturer, at least annually.
      2.9.4. Provide an annual summary report of all AED location discrepancies, inoperative
      AEDs, and failed inspections, to include AED units “discovered” in new locations, to the
      PPC.
      2.9.5. Notify the PPC when any device is found to be unserviceable. This includes
      expired patient leads, expired batteries, and/or defective devices. BMET will provide an
      estimated date that the device will be returned to service. BMET will notify PPC when
      system is back in service or if any change has taken place that will delay the return to
      service.
         2.9.5.1. When removed from service, the corresponding AED location and all
         reference directional indicators will be clearly placarded “OUT OF SERVICE.”
         2.9.5.2. Funding of non-repairable devices and or expired components is a unit
         responsibility and must be coordinated with BMET, Medical Logistics, and the PPC.
3. AED Acquisition.
   3.1. AEDs are manufactured by different companies and come in different shapes, colors,
   and capabilities. The PPC, with input from the PMD, should select one (or at most two)
   models to meet the needs of the installation from the list posted by AFMOA/SGALE. The
   current model used on the USAFA is the Cardiac Science Inc. model 9300E.
   3.2. The AED model is determined by the PPC with approval of the PMD in consideration
   of:
      3.2.1. Simplicity of use.
      3.2.2. Durability.
      3.2.3. Battery life.
      3.2.4. Internal memory.
      3.2.5. Warranty.
      3.2.6. Cost.
      3.2.7. Available and/or included training.
      3.2.8. Ease and availability of periodic upgrades and end-user maintenance.
      3.2.9. Unique conditions of the installation, population at risk, and power-up or response
      time to an event.
 8                                                                 USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012


     3.3. The supporting BMET will be consulted to ensure standardization on the installation.
     3.4. The purchased AED must be capable of:
        3.4.1. Storing a record of use that for review of the emergency event.
        3.4.2. Exporting this information to a permanent record within 1 duty day of use.
        3.4.3. The exported record will be labeled “HIPAA SENSITIVE” and treated
        accordingly.
     3.5. AEDs are considered prescription medical devices; therefore, in a PAD Program, plans
     and protocols approved by the PMD are considered to have met the prescription requirement.
     Procurement of all AEDs must be coordinated and approved by the PMD.
        3.5.1. Tenant units will seek approval/prescription from the host installation PMD prior
        to purchase and must register AEDs with the PPC. While there is no requirement to
        order the AED through Air Force logistics, the PMD will not approve purchases for
        AEDs not approved by Air Force Medical Logistics.
     3.6. Funding of AEDs in the PAD program is a unit responsibility and must be coordinated
     with medical logistics to ensure consistency. Replacement schedules should be coordinated
     into unit planning.
     3.7. Medical logistics will:
        3.7.1. Order AEDs and accessories using requesting unit funds.
        3.7.2. Purchase AEDs only with approval from the PMD.
     3.8. Biomedical Equipment Repair office will:
        3.8.1. Maintain an inventory of all AEDs.
        3.8.2. Schedule non-user preventive maintenance.
        3.8.3. Distribute appropriate recall and safety notices to the PPC.
4. AED Placement.
     4.1. The essential key to surviving a heart attack is early CPR and early defibrillation, when
     indicated. Therefore, AEDs will be strategically placed throughout the unit or facility to
     reduce time between victim collapse and the ability to provide initial shock, if indicated.
        4.1.1. Factors to consider in determining AED placement will comply with the
        Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation Programs in Federal Facilities, paragraphs 10
        and 11. (Attachment 3)
     4.2. AED accessory kits will be stored and accessible with the AED. These kits should
     provide:
        4.2.1. A set of simplified directions for CPR and the use of the AED. A laminated copy
        of the AED Treatment Algorithm (Attachment 4) will be displayed inside each wall-
        mounted AED cabinet.
        4.2.2. Nonlatex protective gloves (several pairs in small, medium, and large sizes).
USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012                                                                       9


      4.2.3. Appropriate sizes of CPR face masks with detachable mouthpieces, plastic or
      silicone face shields (preferably clear), with one-way valves, or other type of barrier
      device that can be used in mouth to mouth resuscitation.
      4.2.4. Disposable razor to dry shave a victim in chest areas if needed, as well as a supply
      of 4x4 gauze pads to clear/dry an area, to assure proper electrode-to-skin contact.
      4.2.5. A pair of medium size bandage or blunt end scissors.
      4.2.6. Spare battery and electrode pads.
   4.3. Facilities which routinely house children will purchase age-appropriate AEDs, as
   available.
   4.4. AEDs will be easily accessible in a well marked and publicized location. A secure
   enclosure that minimizes potential tampering, theft, damage or inadvertent harm, such as
   storage in an alarmed AED housing, is highly recommended.
   4.5. Optimally, signs should be placed above or around each AED, easily viewed from two
   separate directions (both direct view and “down the hall” --90 degrees to the direct view).
   4.6. A nearby telephone or a reliable process to activate the EMS system should be nearby
   the AED location and clearly marked with instructions for activating the EMS system.
5. Follow Up After a Pad Event.
   5.1. All AEDs are equipped with a small device capable of internally storing data for later
   downloading. This data typically includes information about the patient’s heart rhythm,
   AED assessment functioning, and the characteristics of shock(s) administered.
   5.2. The PMD is the best person to lead a review and assessment of performance after an
   AED event. The PPC will provide a full report to the PMD for review, as well as to any
   other authorities as required by state and local laws within 2 duty days. The PMD will
   forward the report and PMD review to the SGH within 5 duty days.
   5.3. The Unit Commander will consult with the PMD and/or unit medical officer and
   recommend post-event psychological support for responders, witnesses, and co-workers as
   required.
6. Documentation.
   6.1. USAFA Form 122, Event Summary Sheet. USAFA Form 122 will be completed by the
   individual using an AED on a victim and forwarded to the site coordinator or alternate within
   2 duty days. The site coordinator will forward copies to the PPC and PMD. This document
   will be kept on file by the PPC in accordance with the RDS T91-06, R04.00. Storage,
   transmission, and communication of event summary sheets will comply with medical and
   patient confidentiality IAW existing HIPAA regulations.
   6.2. Appointment Letters (Attachment 2). All appointment letters are to be renewed
   annually, or when changes dictate. The PPC will maintain a copy of all PAD Program
   related appointment letters for continuity.
   6.3. Post-Use Procedure (Attachment 5). The post-use procedure allows for confirmed
   documentation of the event and rapid return of the AED to service. This procedure may be
   modified by the PMD to meet host installation requirements.
10                                                            USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012


  6.4. USAFA Form 124, Public Access Defibrillator (PAD) Program Staff Assistance Visit
  (SAV) Checklist. Annual staff assistance visits will be performed IAW paragraph 2.12.8. of
  this instruction to provide an opportunity to inspect and evaluate compliance with state and
  federal guidelines. Policies and procedures will be updated at this time.
  6.5. The PPC will maintain a list of AED Sites to identify units/buildings covered by the
  PAD Program. The document will be updated at least annually. This document will be
  shared with Ambulance Services, Fire Department, and Security Forces.
  6.6. USAFA Form 123, Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Daily Inspection Checklist
  and USAFA Form 129, Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Monthly Inspection
  Checklist. These are documents utilized by site coordinators to record daily and monthly
  inspections of AEDs. Discrepancies noted are to be remedied immediately. If coordination
  with BMET is required, the PPC may be contacted for assistance.




                                          THOMAS L. GIBSON, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 10th Air Base Wing
USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012                                                                        11


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFMCI 10-301, Public Access Defibrillation Program, August 29 2006
AFPD 41-1, Health Care Programs and Resources, 15 April 1994
The Case for Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) Programs, November 2001, American Heart
Association (AHA)
Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation Programs in Federal Facilities, January 18, 2001,
Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS)
Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation Programs in DoD Facilities, August 15, 2003
Public Law 106-505, Public Health Improvement Act of 2000, Title IV, Subtitle A, Cardiac
Arrest Survival Act (CASA); (H.R. 2498)
Prescribed Forms
USAFA Form 122, Event Summary Sheet
USAFA Form 123, Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Daily Inspection Checklist
USAFA Form 124, Public Access Defibrillator (PAD) Program Staff Assistance Visit (SAV)
Checklist
USAFA Form 129, Automated External Defibrillator (AED) Monthly Inspection Checklist
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACLS—Advanced Cardiac Life Support
AED—Automated External Defibrillator
AHA—American Heart Association
AMR—American Medical Response
BLS—Basic Life Support
CASA—Cardiac Arrest Survival Act
CISD—Critical Incident Stress Debriefing
CPR—Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation
DMLSS—Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support System
EMS—Emergency Medical Services
PAD—Public Access Defibrillation
 12                                                                 USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012


SCA—Sudden Cardiac Arrest
SG—Surgeon General
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy

Terms
Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS)—A detailed medical protocol for the provision of
lifesaving cardiac care by paramedics, physicians, or specially trained nurses involving airway
management, defibrillation, and the administration of advanced cardiac drugs.
Automated External Defibrillator (AED)—A medical device capable of recognizing the
presence or absence of ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia; upon determining that
defibrillation is indicated, the device will deliver electrical shocks to the victim.
Basic Life Support (BLS)—A training program that teaches basic Cardio-Pulmonary
Resuscitation techniques as well as AED orientation in support of PAD program uses.
Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR)—The act of providing artificial respirations (usually
via mouth-to-mouth or mouth-to-mask) and chest compressions to a pulseless, breathless victim.
Defibrillation—The application of an electrical shock, via an AED, directly through the pads
placed on a victim’s bare chest.
Emergency Medical Services (EMS)—The rapid response team of medically trained personnel
who provide emergency medical intervention and/or transport to the hospital as necessary.
Pulseless Ventricular Tachycardia/ Ventricular Fibrillation—An abnormal cardiac rhythm
resulting in little or no forward flow of blood to vital organs that is incompatible with life if not
immediately treated.
Rescuer—A Rescuer is any individual, whether trained BLS/AED personnel or an untrained lay-
bystander, who provides assistance to a cardiac arrest victim.
Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA)—The abrupt cessation of normal cardiac function that typically
results from ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia with rapid progression to
death if not immediately treated.
USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012                                                       13


                                  Attachment 2
             SAMPLE APPOINTMENT LETTER FOR PAD PROGRAM

A2.1. Host installation program coordinator will: attach sample appointment letter
identifying targeted responders and site coordinators for signature by commander.
 14                                                               USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012


                                         Attachment 3
 GUIDELINES FOR PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATION PROGRAMSIN FEDERAL
          FACILITIES (MODIFIED FROM PARAGRAPHS 10 AND 11)

A3.1. Placement of and Access to AEDs: While there is no single “formula” to determine the
appropriate number, placement, and access system for AEDs, there are several major elements
that should be considered. However, all considerations are based upon (1) an optimal response
time of 3 minutes or less and (2) assessing the level of risk in a facility's environment. Factors
that should be considered include:
   A3.1.1. Response Time: The optimal response time is 3 minutes or less. This interval
   begins from the moment a person is identified as needing emergency care to when the AED
   is at the side of the victim. Survival rates decrease by 7 to 10 percent for every minute that
   defibrillation is delayed. Therefore, it is recommended that Federal agencies train as many
   employees as possible on the use of AEDs.
   A3.1.2. Demographics of the Facility's Workforce: Leadership should examine the makeup
   of the resident workforce. Because the likelihood of an event occurring increases with age,
   consideration should be given to the age profile of the workforce.
   A3.1.3. Visitors: Facilities (including Federal areas, such as Wilderness Areas and National
   Parks) that host large numbers of visitors are more likely to experience an event, and an
   appraisal of the demographics of visitors should be included in an assessment.
   A3.1.4. Specialty Areas: Facilities where strenuous work is conducted are more likely to
   experience an event. Additionally, specialty areas within facilities such as exercise and work
   out rooms should be considered to have a higher risk of an event than areas where there is
   minimal physical activity.
   A3.1.5. Physical Layout of Facility: Response time should be calculated based upon how
   long it will take for an LRR with an AED walking at a rapid pace to reach a victim. Large
   facilities and buildings with unusual designs, elevators, campuses with several separate
   buildings, and physical impediments all present unique challenges to LRRs. In some larger
   facilities, it may be necessary to incorporate the use of properly equipped “golf cart” style
   conveyances to accommodate time and distance conditions.
   A3.1.6. Physical Placement of AEDs: Facilities that have large open areas present unique
   challenges.
A3.2. Characteristics of Proper AED Placement. There are several elements that contribute to
proper placement of AEDs.
   A3.2.1. An easily accessible position (e.g., placed at a height so those shorter individuals can
   reach and remove, unobstructed access, etc.).
   A3.2.2. A secure location that prevents or minimizes the potential for tampering, theft,
   and/or misuse, and precludes access by unauthorized users. Facilities should take additional
   steps to assure that an AED has not been stolen or improperly removed.
   A3.2.3. A location that is well marked, publicized, and known among trained staff. Periodic
   “tours” of locations are recommended.
USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012                                                                     15


  A3.2.4. A nearby telephone that can be used to call backup, security, EMS, or 911 to be sure
  that additional help is dispatched. Protocols should clearly address procedures for activating
  local EMS personnel. These protocols should include notification of EMS personnel of the
  quantity, brands, and locations of AEDs within the facility. This information will enhance
  dispatch and the EMS responder protocol, enabling proper planning and scene management
  once EMS personnel arrive at the victim's side.
  A3.2.5. Equipment stored in a manner in which the removal of the AED automatically
  notifies security, EMS, or a central control center is ideal. Where automatic notification of
  the opening of an AED storage cabinet or removal of an AED from a cabinet is not
  implemented, emphasis should be placed on notification procedures and equipment
  placement in close proximity to a telephone.
16                                     USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012


                       Attachment 4
     2010 HEARTSAVER AED RESCUER TREATMENT ALGORITHM
USAFAI41-101 5 JUNE 2012                                                                      17


                                        Attachment 5
                          POST-USE PROCEDURE CHECKLIST


The Site Coordinator will do the following after any AED use:
 Notify Unit Commander, PPC and PMD immediately of emergency event.
 It is critical to get the AED information to healthcare providers as soon as possible. If
   necessary, deliver the device to PC or appropriate office for data downloading.
 Medical Logistics will assist in replacing the AED back into service. A loaner AED may
   be needed until the original AED is available for use.
 Verify all supplies are restored and checked for damage or expired items.
 Ensure the replacement AED is clean. Review specific User's Guide for appropriate
   method.
 Coordinate Traumatic Stress Response debriefing for employee(s) if deemed necessary.

After Each Use
 Inspect the exterior and pad connectors for damage, dirt, or contamination.
 Check status indicator before putting the unit back in service.

Initial all restorative/corrective action items listed below:
__________ AED removed from location used and delivered for data download.
__________ Event Summary Sheet completed.
__________ AED unit restored back to ready state.
__________ Accessory items replaced/restocked as necessary and all items inspected.
__________ Event Summary Sheet delivered to MD and PC NLT COB of the duty day.
__________ Traumatic Stress Response (TSR) debriefing scheduled/conducted.
_________ Unit Commander briefed on event and restorative actions

Call Mental Health Flight (333-5177) for Traumatic Stress Response Debriefing.
TSR debriefing planned? YES/NO (date) ___________
Conducted? YES/NO __________ (date or N/A)
