BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                               UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                       INSTRUCTION 34-601
                                                                                           24 JULY 2003
                                                                    Certified Current on 15 October 2013
                                                                                                Services

                                                        UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
                                                           CONTINGENCY QUARTERS PROGRAM

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAFE/SVX (MSgt Patrick D. Fry)                                     Certified by: HQ USAFE/SV
                                                                              (Colonel Timothy Hanson)
                                                                                                 Pages: 8
                                                                                          Distribution: FCertified C

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 34-6, Air Force Lodging. This instruction formal-
izes the USAFE contingency quarters program. It delineates roles and responsibilities for establishing,
activating, operating, and funding contingency quarters at USAFE main operating bases (MOB) and geo-
graphically separated units (GSU). It applies to all bases USAFE-wide who experience surge conditions
during contingencies. For Air Force users: maintain and dispose of records created as a result of pre-
scribed processes in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-139, Records Disposition Sched-
ule. It does not apply to Air National Guard or Air Force Reserve units.


1. Background. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, the Air Force has transitioned from a Cold War, for-
ward-based organization to a mobile, expeditionary force. The Air Force significantly reduced base infra-
structure, particularly in Europe, yet demands for contingency support sharply increased as “operations
other than war” drove requirements for sustained beddowns. The drawdown left USAFE with fewer bases
from which to stage missions. At the same time, some have excess infrastructure and/or facilities, which
may now be used as contingency quarters.

2. Definition. USAFE contingency quarters are “otherwise excess” facilities used to beddown personnel
who may be deployed to or transiting through an MOB or GSU to perform a contingency or wartime mis-
sion.
   2.1. Excess facilities are used as a “tent substitute” to support mission requirements.
   2.2. Contingency quarters are not part of Air Force lodging or dormitory programs.
   2.3. Contingency quarters are intended to supplement base lodging and commercial contract quarters,
   when required, to beddown personnel deployed into and transiting the USAFE Area of Responsibility
   (AOR), in lieu of constructing a tent city or other temporary facilities. Installation commanders may
   deem contract quarters use impractical based on driving distance, force protection issues, etc .
2                                                                       USAFEI34-601 24 JULY 2003


    2.4. Contingency quarters are not designed to operate unless a contingency operation is underway;
    use of the contingency quarters as overflow lodging is strictly prohibited .

3. Contingency Quarters Concept of Operations:
    3.1. The base-level Services squadron or division should operate contingency quarters day-to-day
    during emergency or wartime conditions when transiting forces cannot be accommodated in NAF
    lodging.
    3.2. Appropriate Services Unit Type Codes (UTC) must be included in the initial phase of deploy-
    ment to provide manpower for contingency quarters management and front desk operations .
    3.3. When contingency quarters are part of a larger contingency complex (such as Aviano Building
    1467), manpower for other functions (i.e., food service, fitness, recreation) must also be included in
    Services UTCs.

4. Contingency Beddown Strategy. When a contingency, crisis, or war erupts, some period of time is
available to plan the beddown--whether hours, days, or weeks. Beddown plans should be tailored to best
support the mission, considering the nature and anticipated duration of the crisis, number of personnel
involved, etc. This paragraph provides direction for bedding down incoming forces and should be
reflected in the base support plan.
    4.1. Beddown Priority for Bases Without Contingency Quarters. Bases without contingency
    quarters should observe the following priority in bedding down deployed personnel.
       4.1.1. First, fill base lodging with personnel deployed to the installation for contingency and war-
       time missions. Include or exclude Temporary Lodging Facilities (TLF) based on concurrent travel
       for dependents restrictions and existing PCS in and out reservations.
       4.1.2. Second, fill contract quarters to the maximum extent possible depending upon the number
       of personnel requiring beddown, force protection concerns, practicality, and availability. Local
       force protection and driving distance concerns may prevent the use of contract quarters entirely.
       The installation commander will make the decision on the use of contract quarters.
           4.1.2.1. Release a worldwide message discouraging nonessential travel to the location since
           on base lodging is limited or nonexistent.
           4.1.2.2. If necessary, cancel confirmed lodging reservations for routine TDY travelers. Redi-
           rect these guests to contract quarters, if available, or provide non-availability statements.
       4.1.3. Third, surge within lodging (i.e., lodge more than one individual per room). If contract
       quarters are used, hotels should be advised to maximize occupancy based on room configuration,
       i.e., if room has two beds, two members may be assigned.
       4.1.4. Next, furnish and use “otherwise excess” facilities (like empty dorms) for temporary bed-
       down of personnel deployed to the installation or transiting the installation .
       4.1.5. If necessary, furnish and use other available facilities (like gyms or community centers) for
       temporary beddown of deployed personnel transiting the base (not those deployed to the location)
       .
       4.1.6. As a last resort, to meet mission requirements, construct a tent city or obtain temporary
       facilities such as port-a-cabins.
USAFEI34-601 24 JULY 2003                                                                                     3


   4.2. Beddown Priority for Bases With Contingency Quarters. Bases with contingency quarters
   should observe the following priority in bedding down deployed personnel .
      4.2.1. First, fill base lodging to the extent practical with personnel deployed to the installation for
      contingency or wartime missions. Include or exclude TLF facilities based on concurrent travel for
      dependents restrictions and existing PCS in and out reservations.
      4.2.2. Second, fill contract quarters to the maximum extent possible depending upon the number
      of personnel requiring beddown, force protection concerns, practicality, and availability. Installa-
      tion commanders decide whether local force protection and driving distance concerns may prevent
      the use of contract quarters entirely .
          4.2.2.1. Release a worldwide message discouraging nonessential travel to the location since
          on base lodging is limited or nonexistent.
          4.2.2.2. If necessary, cancel confirmed lodging reservations for routine TDY travelers. Redi-
          rect these guests to contract quarters, if available, or provide nonavailability statements.
      4.2.3. Third, expand into contingency quarters, up to the full capacity of the facility, if required.
      4.2.4. Fourth, surge within lodging (i.e., lodge more than one individual per room). If contract
      quarters are used, direct hotels to maximize occupancy based on room configuration.
      4.2.5. Next, furnish and use “otherwise excess” facilities (like gyms or empty dorms) for tempo-
      rary beddown .
      4.2.6. As a last resort, to meet mission requirements, construct a tent city or obtain temporary
      facilities such as port-a-cabins.
   4.3. Aircrew Beddown:
      4.3.1. Give aircrews first priority in lodging and contract quarters as outlined above. Aircrew
      integrity must be maintained to ensure proper rest.
      4.3.2. If mission requirements exceed lodging or contract quarters capacity and contingency quar-
      ters are available, beddown aircrews in a designated contingency quarters area or facility .
          4.3.2.1. Attempt to maintain crew integrity within a room, building, or on base.
          4.3.2.2. To every extent possible, do not mix aircrew and non-aircrew personnel within rooms.
          4.3.2.3. Aircrews must surge within contingency quarters as determined in the beddown plan.
      4.3.3. Shared baths and central latrines are acceptable for aircrew personnel.

5. Contingency Quarters Occupants:
   5.1. Personnel on ESP-coded orders, deployed into and/or transiting the USAFE AOR in support of
   contingency and wartime missions, are authorized to stay in contingency quarters when (1) beddown
   plan directs use of contingency quarters, (2) lodging is full, or (3) contract quarters are full, otherwise
   not available, or not acceptable due to force protection or other concerns.
   5.2. Permissive TDY personnel supporting officially sanctioned events (i.e., sports teams, scouts, and
   JROTC groups) may be authorized to stay in contingency quarters at the discretion of the installation
   commander. When the installation commander authorizes minors (i.e., scouts, JROTC) to use the
4                                                                         USAFEI34-601 24 JULY 2003


    facility, they must be in a separate area from any active duty and adult occupants of the facility and be
    chaperoned by an adult at least 18 years of age or older .
    5.3. Personnel on routine, funded TDY orders, not associated with a contingency or wartime mission,
    are not authorized to stay in contingency quarters. In addition, personnel on leave or otherwise consid-
    ered space-available in lodging are not authorized in contingency quarters .

6. Contingency Quarters Standards. There are no Air Force standards for contingency quarters. AFI
34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, provides limited direction while the War Mobilization Plan I, Annex
GG, provides guidelines for contingency and wartime beddown. If hardened facilities were not available
for use as contingency quarters, deployed personnel would live in tents or other temporary structures. The
standards detailed below are both the minimum and maximum standards that should be met within
USAFE contingency quarters. Without these items, facilities are less than livable; with these items, they
are reasonably comfortable. It is not our aim--nor is it fiscally responsible--to replicate Air Force
lodging standards in contingency quarters.
    6.1. The Base Civil Engineer needs to repair or renovate existing facilities to make them safe and san-
    itary.
    6.2. Do not renovate to convert central latrines or shared baths into private baths in contingency quar-
    ters. Central latrines or shared baths are appropriate for all categories of personnel in contingency
    quarters .
    6.3. There are no strict rules on square footage of sleeping rooms. Plan for at least 50 square feet per
    person. The host base must ensure compliance with Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
    (AFOSH) and National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards.
    6.4. The following room supplies and amenities will be purchased, maintained and replaced by base
    level SVS. They should be purchased using the designated appropriated funds (APF) ESP codes.
       6.4.1. Provide bed linens (sheets, mattress pad, pillow, pillow case, blanket), clock radios, and if
       needed, an oscillating fan. These items should be pre-positioned in the sleeping rooms, or stored
       centrally within contingency facilities.
       6.4.2. Items purchased with APF ESP-coded funds should remain in the contingency facilities for
       use by future occupants. They should not be redistributed to lodging, dormitories, or other activi-
       ties .
       6.4.3. Excess lodging linen may be used in contingency dorms to provide for members who may
       enter contingency quarters without a towel, washcloth, etc.
    6.5. The Furnishings Management Office (FMO) will provide furnishings and appliances .
       6.5.1. Sleeping rooms should contain, at minimum, twin beds (may use bunk beds or cots as cir-
       cumstances dictate) and secure wall locker or wardrobe per occupant.
           6.5.1.1. If cots are used, replace them with beds if the duration and scope of the contingency
           warrants .
           6.5.1.2. Other furnishings may be provided as space and availability permit (i.e., desk and
           desk chair, occasional chair, night stands, small refrigerator).
           6.5.1.3. Windows should have room-darkening/blackout shades or window coverings.
USAFEI34-601 24 JULY 2003                                                                                 5


           6.5.1.4. Televisions, VCRs, stereos, etc., are not required in every sleeping room.
       6.5.2. Common areas should contain, at minimum, a furnished day room with television and
       microwave.

7. Cleaning. CES must include contingency quarters in the APF base cleaning contract. Cleaning service
should include (1) cleaning of entire facility upon activation to make ready for occupants; (2) daily clean-
ing of common areas and central latrines during operation; and (3) cleaning of sleeping rooms upon
checkout.
   7.1. Occupants are responsible for daily cleaning of sleeping rooms and private bathrooms (where
   they exist) for the duration of stay.
   7.2. The cleaning contractor must provide cleaning supplies and equipment for their areas of respon-
   sibility.
   7.3. Recommend the base provide cleaning supplies and equipment (with ESP-coded funds) for areas
   of occupant responsibility.
   7.4. Linens should be cleaned through the existing linen exchange contract, using ESP-coded appro-
   priated funds. Occupants are responsible for turning in their linens through the base Linen Exchange
   Operation. Upon checkout, occupants must turn in their linens to Linen Exchange. Include clauses in
   the linen exchange contract to activate additional linen service during extreme surge conditions.

8. Funding. Appropriated funds are the sole fund source for contingency quarters operations.
   8.1. The use of nonappropriated funds is strictly forbidden (i.e., funds or assets from the base
   lodging operation). This does not preclude the base from operating NAF activities (i.e., recreation
   lounge) collocated with contingency quarters, but NAF funds should not be used for contingency
   quarters purposes.
   8.2. Do not charge members individually who reside in contingency quarters. Payment for use of
   these quarters should be handled as unit fund code transfers following guidance listed in following
   sections .
   8.3. Fund cites should be ESP coded to accurately capture costs of contingency operations (i.e., clean-
   ing common areas and checkouts, providing and cleaning linens, etc.).
   8.4. If more than one ESP code is in use, SVS must maintain a record of bed-nights to be charged
   against each ESP code. Expenses should be split proportionally between the ESP codes.
   8.5. The Command Fiscal Guidance covers all aspects of contingency funding, to include support of
   contingency quarters.
       8.5.1. Authorized and Unauthorized Use of ESP Codes. Only the incremental cost for contin-
       gency quarters actively used for a supported operation is eligible for contingency funding consid-
       eration. If the cost would be incurred even if not directly supporting a contingency operation, then
       contingency funding is not authorized.
       8.5.2. The cost must be tied to a specific operation--not contingency operations in general--as
       there is no general fund other than a previously existing baseline.
6                                                                        USAFEI34-601 24 JULY 2003


       8.5.3. When expenses incurred are incremental to an Air Staff-approved contingency operation,
       unit appropriated funds will be used with the appropriate ESP code to identify the supported con-
       tingency. It is important to distinguish quarters that are not being used for contingency operations
       versus those used for an active OSD- or AF-supported contingency operation.
          8.5.3.1. Contact your wing Financial Analysis Office for ESP code information applicable to
          on-going contingency operations.
          8.5.3.2. The cost of converting a permanent party dormitory to contingency quarters is not
          authorized contingency funding .
          8.5.3.3. When designated contingency quarters are not active, or “mothballed”, contingency
          funding is not authorized to renovate or upgrade quarters for anything other than in support of
          contingency operations .
          8.5.3.4. When contingency quarters are not fully occupied by deployed personnel, the instal-
          lation should compare the cost of continued operations to other alternatives, such as contract
          quarters, and a decision made to deactivate or continue operating contingency quarters. Other
          factors may also weigh in the decision, such as force protection conditions.
       8.5.4. Although ESP Codes must still be used to capture costs of contingency operations, bases
       will receive annual funding for steady state contingency operations in their baseline distribution of
       funds.
          8.5.4.1. It is the responsibility of base financial managers to ensure that costs associated with
          contingency quarters operations are managed within this baseline .
          8.5.4.2. All contingency costs identified by ESP Codes that exceed a base’s distribution will
          be considered for reimbursement; however, the base must be prepared to absorb these costs
          within their baseline if reimbursement does not occur.

9. Responsibilities:
    9.1. The Director of Services (HQ USAFE/SV) will:
       9.1.1. Determine minimum and maximum adequacy standards for contingency quarters (see para-
       graph 6. above) .
       9.1.2. Determine requirements for contingency quarter bed-spaces at each USAFE location.
       9.1.3. Determine Services manpower requirement for contingency quarters operations. This
       includes:
          9.1.3.1. Request creation of AEF positions required for contingency quarters operations.
          9.1.3.2. Request deletion or no-fill of AEF positions no longer required.
    9.2. The Director of Civil Engineering (HQ USAFE/CE) will:
       9.2.1. Identify excess facilities to satisfy USAFE/SV-validated requirement for contingency bed-
       downs .
       9.2.2. Determine real property code for contingency quarters.
       9.2.3. Perform maintenance, repair, and renovation of facilities, as required.
USAFEI34-601 24 JULY 2003                                                                             7


  9.3. The Director of Financial Management (HQ USAFE/FM). HQ USAFE/FM provides fund-
  ing guidance (see paragraph 8. above).
  9.4. USAFE Theater Air and Space-Operations Center (U/TASC). U/TASC coordinates mission
  beddown requirements with USAFE/SV .
  9.5. The Director of Plans and Programs (HQ USAFE/XP). HQ USAFE/XP identifies basing,
  missions, and personnel beddown requirements through the deliberate plans process, in conjunction
  with USAFE/SVX .
  9.6. The Director of Operations (HQ USAFE/DO). HQ USAFE/DO identifies beddown require-
  ments for exercises, in conjunction with USAFE/SVX.
  9.7. Installation Commander will:
     9.7.1. Determine when to activate and deactivate contingency quarters.
     9.7.2. Determine whether or not contract quarters will be used based on force protection and driv-
     ing distance concerns .
  9.8. Services Squadron Commander and the Director of Services will:
     9.8.1. Activate and deactivate contingency quarters as directed by the Installation Commander.
     9.8.2. Manage and operate contingency quarters.
     9.8.3. Manage bed spaces and make bed space assignments using an automated system, such as
     Field Lodging II software, to provide accountability for deployed personnel/bed spaces, in coordi-
     nation with PERSCO .
     9.8.4. Identify furnishings requirement to CES Furnishings Management Office (FMO).
     9.8.5. Identify requirements to CES for facility maintenance, repair, and renovation.
     9.8.6. Provide quality assurance evaluation (QAE) of the cleaning contractor’s performance and
     report to CE.
     9.8.7. Where personnel supporting more than one contingency are using contingency quarters,
     track the number of bed nights that should be charged against each ESP code (i.e., for cleaning and
     linen exchange contracts).
  9.9. Base Civil Engineer will:
     9.9.1. Provide contract cleaning services in contingency quarters to make facilities ready for
     occupancy, provide daily cleaning in common areas and central latrines, and cleaning of sleeping
     rooms upon checkout.
     9.9.2. Provide furnishings through FMO. Use excess furniture from the base to the extent possi-
     ble. If excess stocks are not available, purchase required furnishings using ESP-coded appropri-
     ated funds .



                                                  GREGORY S. MARTIN, General, USAF
                                                  Commander
8                                                        USAFEI34-601 24 JULY 2003


                                          Attachment 1

            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AEF—Air Expeditionary Forces
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AOR—Area of Responsibility
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
APF—Appropriated Funds
ESP—Emergency Special Program
FMO—Furniture Management Office
GSU—Geographically Separated Unit
JROTC—Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps
MOB—Main Operating Base
NAF—Nonappropriated Funds
NFPA—National Fire Protection Act
OSD—Office of the Secretary of Defense
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
QAE—Quality Assurance Evaluation
TDY—Temporary Duty
TLF—Temporary Lodging Facility
USAFE—United States Air Force in Europe
UTC—Unit Type Code
