BY ORDER OF THE                                           HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                           ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3542

                                                                         20 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                 ASSIGNING AND PROCESSING FORMAL
                                                                          GRADES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/DFRC                                               Certified by: HQ USAFA/DFR
                                                                          (Dr. Harold A. Taylor)
Supersedes:   USAFAI36-3504,                                                            Pages: 9
              31 March 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, and outlines responsibilities for assigning and processing formal grades. It applies to
all United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) activities involved with formal grading and
requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974, as
authorized by Title 10, United States Code 903. Systems of Records Notice F050 AFA B,
Instructor Academic Records, apply. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force
(AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force         Records         Disposition        Schedule        (RDS)         located        at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision renumbers the publication from USAFAI 36-3504 to USAFAI 36-3542 at the
request of the USAFA Staff Judge Advocate (HQ USAFA/JA). No content is changing.
1. Responsibilities. Assigning and processing formal grades is a joint responsibility of several
USAF Academy activities, each of which is tasked in this instruction. The Dean of the Faculty
(HQ USAFA/DF) is the overall monitoring activity for assigning formal grades and will work
 2                                                      USAFAI36-3542 20 NOVEMBER 2012


through the Director of Operations (HQ USAFA/DFS) to ensure that all activities comply with
their responsibilities. The ultimate responsibility for assigning letter grades (or changes to them)
at the mid-semester report and at the end of a course belongs to the Department Head of the
appropriate academic departments or Deputy Director of Athletic Programs (HQ USAFA/ADP).
     1.1. Commander, 10th Communications (10 CS):
        1.1.1. Provides automated services for:
           1.1.1.1. Updating the Academic Grade Data.
           1.1.1.2. Maintaining the CAMIS database and associated applications.
        1.1.2. Advises appropriate activities on data preparation procedures and problems to
        include computer systems analysis and programming support.
     1.2. Academic Scheduling and Customer Services (HQ USAFA/DFRR), Student
     Academic Affairs and Academy Registrar:
        1.2.1. Maintains the entire official certified permanent course grades and records of all
        graded and non-graded performances by individual cadets.
        1.2.2. Updates courses and letter grades for past semesters on the CAMIS database as
        required.
        1.2.3. At the request of cadets and former cadets, prepares and mails transcripts of their
        permanent records and assesses and collects transcript fees as applicable.
        1.2.4. Maintains the proper safeguards to protect release of grade information on each
        cadet as required by the Privacy Act by assuring proper completion of Incoming Class
        Data Collection Screen.
     1.3. DF Department Heads and HQ USAFA/ADP:
        1.3.1. Appoint grade-processing coordinators as liaisons with Information Services
        (HQ USAFA/DFRI), Office of the Registrar.
        1.3.2. Ensure that each course director chooses the appropriate printing option for the
        grade report.
        1.3.3. Ensure that final grades are not released to cadets prior to the publication of the
        final course grade report and that the predicted and actual grade distributions are NOT
        released to cadets. Department Heads and HQ USAFA/ADP may release mid-semester
        grades to cadets after Lesson T20.
        1.3.4. Sign, or have the Deputy Department Head sign, the annotated mid-semester or
        final course grade report for letter grade assignment indicating concurrence with the
        grades assigned.
        1.3.5. Ensure that the following are accomplished for each graded course:
           1.3.5.1. Complete and submit to 10 CS, through HQ USAFA/DFRI, required grade
           inputs for all mid-semester reports and end-of-semester or end-of-term grade reports.
           1.3.5.2. Advise HQ USAFA/DFRR, by memorandum, of all letter grade changes due
           to administrative error.
USAFAI36-3542 20 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                3


          1.3.5.3. Advise HQ USAFA/DFRR, by memorandum, of all incomplete grade
          assignments due to either uncontrollable or controllable circumstances.
          1.3.5.4. Advise HQ USAFA/DFRR, by memorandum, of the removal of "I" grades.
          For more information on “I” grades, see the Curriculum Handbook, chapters 4-6.
          1.3.5.5. Assign and submit to HQ USAFA/DFRR, within 3 workdays after receipt of
          a drop-add authorization sheet, a grade of "WP," "WF," or a final grade (if the course
          has been completed) for each disenrolled cadet who departs after Lesson T20.
2. Procedures:
   2.1. Pass/Fail Courses. Pre-registered courses, such as Airmanship courses, automatically
   assign a "P" grade. Failures and incompletes are assigned by exception. The Department
   Head must notify HQ USAFA/DFRR, by memorandum, no later than the first day of the
   final exam period, of "F" or "I" grades to be awarded at the end of semester or term. If a
   cadet departs the Academy or drops a pass/fail course prior to the end of the semester,
   HQ USAFA/DFRR will notify the department by a drop/add authorization sheet. The
   department should assign a grade within 3 workdays. All pass/fail grade reports must be
   verified and signed by the Department Head within 5 days of course completion.
   2.2. Graded Course - Letter Grade Assignment:
      2.2.1. Departments will furnish HQ USAFA/DFRI with the grades for their courses at
      mid-semester and at the end of semester or end of term, using the Q2 software system.
      2.2.2. HQ USAFA/DFRI, in return, will furnish a mid-semester or final course grade
      report in Q2 for each course to the department. Academic departments and
      HQ USAFA/ADP ensure the security of these final permanent reports, certify accuracy
      with a complete signature on the Registrar's copy, and return them to HQ USAFA/DFRI.
      Department Heads and HQ USAFA/ADP must ensure that an authorized official is
      available in their departments during the mid-semester and end-of-semester grading
      cycles to authenticate these forms.
      2.2.3. Grade changes to the final course grade report are authorized until the Department
      Head or HQ USAFA/ADP has signed the report. Any changes after that point must be
      submitted in writing to HQ USAFA/DFRR.
      2.2.4. Any grade changes that become necessary after completing final course grade
      reports, with the exception of "I" grades, should be sent to HQ USAFA/DFRR as soon as
      possible so that all products associated with a grade change (i.e. transcripts, APSs, GPAs
      and Honor Lists) can be updated. All grade change letters should be signed by the
      Department Head, Deputy Department Head, 34 EDG/CC or HQ USAFA/ADP and
      should be in the format noted in Attachment 3.
      2.2.5. To submit or remove an "I" grade, follow the procedures outlined in the Registrar's
      "I" grade procedure memorandum that is submitted to each department before each
      grading cycle. See attachment 4 for the format for changing “I” grades.
   2.3. Unsatisfactory Completion of Accelerated and Advanced Fourth Class
   Courses. Fourth-class cadets who do not satisfactorily complete accelerated or advanced
   courses will normally be awarded a "W" in those courses. The department forwards a
   memorandum to HQ USAFA/DFRR along with the course grade report concerned. The
 4                                                       USAFAI36-3542 20 NOVEMBER 2012


     memorandum will also indicate which follow-on course or courses the cadet must take in
     future semesters.
     2.4. "I" Grades. HQ USAFA/DFRR will notify group air officers commanding (AOC)
     about cadets receiving controllable and uncontrollable "I" grades. The penalties attached
     with these grades are as follows:
        2.4.1. Uncontrollable "I" Grades. Uncontrollable incomplete work for full semester
        courses at the middle or end of semester will be awarded an "I" grade.
        HQ USAFA/DFRR and the department awarding the grade will monitor incomplete
        work. Uncontrollable incomplete work should be completed at the earliest opportunity.
        A cadet will not be placed on academic probation solely for an uncontrollable "I" grade.
        2.4.2. Controllable "I" Grades at Mid-semester. Cadets earning a controllable "I" grade
        at mid-semester will be placed on academic probation for the remainder of the semester.
        2.4.3. Controllable "I" Grades at End of Semester. Cadets earning a controllable "I"
        grade at the end of semester will be restricted to USAFA through the last scheduled final
        examination period or until all course work is completed. If the cadet departs at the end
        of the semester or summer term with a controllable "I" grade, the final letter grade may
        be determined by assigning a zero for the incomplete work. In addition, the Department
        Heads, in coordination with their course directors, will determine if, in spite of zero credit
        for incomplete work, minimum course requirements have been satisfied to warrant an
        overall passing course grade.
3. Specific Procedures. Throughout each semester, Office of the Registrar (HQ USAFA/DFR)
will publish specific procedures for all the previous general procedures.




                                               DANA H. BORN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                               Dean of the Faculty
USAFAI36-3542 20 NOVEMBER 2012                                                              5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air Officers Commanding
CAMIS—Cadet Administrative Management Information System
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy

Terms
CAMIS—Acronym for Cadet Administrative Management Information System, the unified
USAFA computerized database.
Academic Grade Data—A subset of the CAMIS database-containing records maintained for
each cadet for each graded course offered during the current semester.
Course Grade Report—Published at mid-semester, end of semester, and end of third summer
term. The mid-semester grade reflects temporary progress grades that are subject to change by
the end of the semester, or term, based on overall performance.
Graded Course—A course for which a grade of "A," "A-," "B+," "B," "B-," "C+," "C," "C-," or
"D" is awarded upon successful completion. Grades of "F" (failing), "W" (withdrawn), "WP"
(withdrawn passing), "WF" (withdrawn failing), and "I" (incomplete) may also be awarded at the
end of a graded course. At the end of the fall semester, an "N" (no grade) may be awarded to
continuing (two-semester) courses.
Grades—A cadet's performance in any graded course of instruction is officially reported to DFR
at mid-semester and end-of-semester or summer as one of the following: "A," "A-," "B+," "B,"
"B-," "C+," "C," "C-," "D," "F," "P" (passing), "W" (withdrawn), "WP" (withdrawn passing),
"WF" (withdrawn failing), "IC" (incomplete, controllable) and “IU” (incomplete,
uncontrollable).
 6                                                    USAFAI36-3542 20 NOVEMBER 2012


"W," "WP," and "WF" Grades—A "W" grade is awarded when a cadet withdraws from a
course between Lesson M9 and Lesson T20. If a cadet drops a course prior to Lesson M9, the
course will not appear on the mid-semester report or an official transcript. If a cadet drops a
course after Lesson T20, the department offering the course will award a "WP" or "WF" grade,
as appropriate. In exceptional cases, the Dean of the Faculty (HQ USAFA/DF) or the Vice-Dean
(HQ USAFA/DFV) may award a "W," "WP," or "WF" grade, as appropriate, to a cadet
withdrawing from a course.
"I" Grades—An "I" grade is a temporary grade given at the mid-semester or ends of semester.
"I" grades can be controllable or uncontrollable. An uncontrollable "I" grade (IU) indicates that
course work or a final examination has not been completed for causes that are not within the
control of the cadet, such as medical incapacity or emergency. A controllable "I" grade (IC)
indicates that the cadet was responsible for failure to complete an assignment considered being
important for evaluating course work.
Grade—An "N" grade is awarded at the end of the fall semester in a course that continues for an
entire academic year (such as certain physical education courses). "N" grades may be awarded
in Military Training 100 (BCT) and Military Training 220 (CST) when cadets are physically
unable to complete one or more phases of the programs. "N" grades may not be awarded as final
grades in a course. An "N" grade may be awarded in a pass/fail course at the mid-semester
report to reflect no grade available. At the end of the fall semester, an "N" grade may be
awarded only in continuing courses.
Pass/Fail Non—graded Courses—Pass/fail non-graded courses are courses for which a grade
of "P" or "F" is awarded upon successful or unsuccessful completion of the course. If a cadet
departs prior to course completion, the following grades may be awarded depending on the
number of lessons the cadet completed: "W," "WP," or "WF."
USAFAI36-3542 20 NOVEMBER 2012                                                           7


                                     Attachment 2
         CADET RECORDS AND REPORTS NECESSARY FOR FORMAL

 LETTER GRADE ASSIGNMENT AND SUBMISSION DURING SEMESTER
         The following
Sequence Activity or         Will Prepare or Perform     By or On       And Distribute
         Individual                                                     To
1        DFRI                Predicted Grade             Lesson 5       ADP and all DF
                             Distributions                              Academic
                                                                        Depts.
2         DFRI               Letter on mid-semester or   Lesson 11      ADP and all DF
                             final semester grade        Lesson 30      Academic
                             submission times                           Depts.
3         Grade Processing   Incomplete grade letters    Lessons 22     DFRR
          Coordinators                                   and 42
4         Grade Processing   Letter grade assignments    Lesson 23      DFRI
          Coordinators       on grade files              and finals
5         DFRI               Midterm or final course     as scheduled   ADP and all DF
                             grades report                              Academic
                                                                        Depts.
6         Grade Processing   Certification of reports    as scheduled   DFRI
          Coordinators or
          Course Directors
7         Grade Processing   Assign permanent letter     24 hours       DFRR
          Coordinators       grades to previous “I”      after cadet
                             grades                      clears “I”
                                                         grade
 8                                              USAFAI36-3542 20 NOVEMBER 2012


                                     Attachment 3
                   FORMAT FOR CHANGING A, B, C, D, AND F GRADES

A3.1. Department, Course Title and Number.
A3.2. Cadet's Class Year.
A3.3. Cadet's Squadron.
A3.4. Cadet's Name.
A3.5. Cadet's SSN.
A3.6. Change grade from _____ to _____.
A3.7. Rationale:
USAFAI36-3542 20 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                9


                                        Attachment 4
                            FORMAT FOR CHANGING ‘I’ GRADE

A4.1. Department, Course Title and Number.
A4.2. Cadet's Class Year.
A4.3. Cadet's Squadron.
A4.4. Cadet's Name.
A4.5. Cadet's SSN.
A4.6. Type of "I" grade to be awarded or removed.
   A4.6.1. __________Uncontrollable "I" with the cadet not placed on academic probation
   solely for this incomplete grade.
   A4.6.2. __________Controllable "I" with the cadet restricted through finals and on
   academic probation the following semester if the “I” is not removed by the end of the grading
   cycle.
A4.7. Estimated Completion Date or Actual Completion Date.
A4.8. Assign "I" grade/Change "I" grade to permanent ______.
