BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                     UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                    INSTRUCTION 36-803
EUROPE (USAFE)
                                                                              5 MARCH 2012

                                                                                   Personnel

                                                     FLEXIBLE WORK SCHEDULE WITH
                                                     CREDIT HOURS AND COMPRESSED
                                                                   WORK SCHEDULE


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFE/A1KC                                              Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1K
                                                                     (Ms. Monique F. Botting)
Supersedes:   USAFEI36-803, 7 April 2009                                             Pages: 5


This United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) Instruction implements Air Force Instruction
(AFI) 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances. It establishes
policies and procedures for a Flexible Work Schedule (FWS) with the Credit Hours Option and
Compressed Work Schedule (CWS) for all US civilian employees within Headquarters (HQ)
USAFE directorates and Third Air Force (3 AF) only. The purpose of this instruction is to
provide guidance regarding the manner in which the credit hours are requested and approved and
explain key terms. System of records notice F065 AF A, Time and Attendance Feeder Records
(October 14, 2003, 68 FR 59167) applies. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) Units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the AF
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS): https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised to eliminate 17 AF as a covered unit and includes CWS as an
Alternative Work Schedule (AWS) program option. Formatting has been substantially changed
to distinguish the elements of Standard Tour of Duty, FWS and CWS.
 2                                                             USAFEI36-803 5 MARCH 2012


1. General. Alternative Work Schedule (AWS) programs enable managers and supervisors to
meet their program goals while allowing employees to be more flexible in scheduling their
personal activities. As employees gain greater control over their time, they can balance work
and family responsibilities more easily, become involved in volunteer activities, and take
advantage of educational opportunities. All US civilian employees in the HQ units and
comparable staff offices are eligible to participate in a FWS with the credit hours option and
CWS unless there is a mission requirement that bars their participation. FWS and CWS
participation is voluntary, not mandatory, on the part of employees.
2. Standard Tour of Duty. The standard tour of duty in HQ units and comparable staff offices
is 0730-1630, for five 8-hour days, Monday through Friday. Employees who do not opt to be
placed on a FWS or CWS are expected to work the standard tour of duty. Lunch period is a
minimum of 30 minutes but may be extended up to 120 minutes (using 15-minute increments) to
participate in health and wellness activities, or attend to personal activities. The employee’s
arrival or departure time is adjusted to accommodate the longer lunch period. Employees cannot
work through a lunch period to shorten a workday.
     2.1. Flexible Work Schedule. Organizational core hours are 0900-1500 when an employee
     must be at work or in an approved leave status. In a FWS, an employee can request his/her
     own arrival/departure time within the confines of an organization's core hours. Meaning, an
     employee may start work as early as 0600, or at 15-minute intervals thereafter. The regular
     duty day may not end earlier than 1500. End time is computed by adding 8 hours, plus the
     scheduled lunch period, to the start time. Workday start/stop times may vary to
     accommodate the employees personal preference if approved by the supervisor. Employees
     selecting start/stop times under FWS must continue to adhere to these times. Additional
     changes to start/stop times must be requested by the employee and approved by their
     supervisor. In all cases, supervisors must ensure adequate coverage exists in the office when
     office hours are directed.
        2.1.1. Credit Hours. Credit hours can only be earned by employees participating in a
        FWS.These are hours an employee elects to work in excess of his or her basic work
        requirement so as to vary the length of a workweek or workday. Per the Office of
        Personnel Management Handbook on AWS, the accumulation of credit hours is limited
        to a maximum of 24 hours between pay periods. Hours earned in excess of this amount
        are lost. Credit hours may be worked on weekends or holidays (outside of the normal
        duty hours which qualify for holiday premium pay) Credit hours should not be used to
        establish a recurring non-workday. Credit hours are requested by an employee, rather
        than directed by management as is the case with overtime. There is no prohibition
        against the working of overtime hours, and the earning of credit hours, in the same
        biweekly pay period; however, credit hours may not be used by an employee to create or
        increase entitlement to overtime pay.
     2.2. Overtime and Compensatory Time. For employees who work the Standard Tour
     of Duty or FWS, overtime work means work in excess of 8 hours in a day or in excess of 40
     hours in an administrative workweek, that is--(1) officially ordered or approved and (2)
     performed by an employee. Hours of work in excess of 8 hours in a day are not included in
     computing hours of work in excess of 40 hours in an administrative workweek.
     Compensatory time is time off with pay in lieu of overtime pay for irregular or occasional
USAFEI36-803 5 MARCH 2012                                                                      3


   overtime work.      A compensatory time reference                 may     be   found    here:
   http://www.opm.gov/oca/pay/HTML/COMP.HTM.
   2.3. Compressed Work Schedule: CWS is a fixed work schedule in which the biweekly
   basic work requirement is scheduled for less than 10 workdays. Employees may work a
   four-day workweek or a 5/4-9 compressed plan. Under the four-day work week, employees
   must work 10 hours a day, 40 hours a week and 80 hours in a biweekly pay period. Under
   the 5/4-9 plan, an employee works eight 9-hour days plus one 8-hour day for a total of 80
   hours in a biweekly pay period.
       2.3.1. Overtime and Compensatory Time for CWS. For employees who work CWS,
       overtime and compensatory time are hours officially ordered and approved in excess of
       those hours specified to constitute the compressed schedule.
       2.3.2. Holiday Observance and Pay for CWS. If a holiday falls on a non-workday of
       the employee, the employee’s preceding workday will be designated as the “in lieu of”
       holiday. The holiday or “in lieu of” hours will be reflected on the timesheet as the
       number of hours of the compressed work schedule on that day.
       2.3.3. Use of Annual and Sick Leave for CWS. When a full day of leave is taken, total
       hours will reflect the number of hours of the compressed work schedule on that day or
       days.
       2.3.4. Requesting CWS. Employees who wish to request CWS should provide a written
       request to their supervisor citing the CWS plan for which they wish to participate (i.e.,
       four-day workweek or 5/4-9), the requested days off and the day the employee desires to
       work 8 hours under 5/4-9. For the four-day workweek the employee will select one day
       of each week to regularly observe as their non-workday. The remaining days require the
       employee to work 10 hours each day for four days each week, totally 40 hours each
       week. For the 5/4-9 plan, the employee will identify the eight days in the pay period they
       will work 9 hours each day, the day they will work 8 hours and the day they will
       regularly observe as their day off. CWS schedules will constitute the employees basic
       work requirement and will remain in place until the employee requests in writing to
       observe the Standard Tour of Duty, FWS or a different 5/4-9 plan. Written requests will
       be provided to the timekeeper who will follow the procedures in paragraph 6 of this
       instruction.
3. Compensatory Time for Travel. Section 203 of the Federal Workforce Flexibility Act of
2004 (Public Law 108-411, October 30, 2004) authorized compensatory travel time for time
spent by an employee in a travel status. Time in a travel status includes the time an employee
spends traveling between the official duty station and a temporary duty station, or between two
temporary duty stations, and the usual waiting time that precedes or interrupts such travel.
Travel time in connection with an employee's permanent change of station is not time in a travel
status. An FWS employee may not earn credit hours for travel because travel in connection with
work is not voluntary in nature and does not meet the definition of credit hours.
4. Management/Supervisor Responsibilities. Supervisors must offer employees maximum opportunity
to take advantage of these AWS programs. In addition, Office of Personnel Management, Handbook on
Alternative Work Schedules, http://www.opm.gov/oca/AWS/INDEX.asp, requires an affirmative
means of ensuring employees meet their hours of work requirement. This requirement must be
 4                                                              USAFEI36-803 5 MARCH 2012


met by use of the organization’s time and attendance tracking methodology, requiring employees
to record their arrival and departure times. Employees may utilize the “Remarks” section to
provide justification on credit hours earned if required. Supervisors will alternate employee non-
workdays to ensure non-workdays are not all on the same day. Supervisors may temporarily
rescind or change work schedules based upon mission reasons with explanation given to the
employee as to need and expected duration. Meetings, training and other sessions should be
scheduled at times when employees are available. When dates cannot be adjusted and in lieu of
overtime, supervisors will adjust work schedules so employees are able to attend. Work
schedules will be documented using USAFE Form 96, CWS Work Schedule Change Request.
Employees on CWS who attend a conferences or training requiring attendance each day of the
pay period for 8 hours a day must submit a USAFE Form 96.
     4.1. No additional time accounting device is needed if a supervisor can perform any of
     the following. (1) Is visually aware of the employee’s work schedule (because he or she
     works the same schedule as his or her employees). (2) Uses such techniques as making
     arrangements with other supervisory personnel to provide observation; makes occasional
     telephone calls to the employee during times the supervisor is not present but the employee is
     scheduled, or can determine reasonableness of work output for time spent.
5. Employee Responsibilities. It is the employee’s responsibility to adhere to the FWS
requirements: (1) Request to earn credit hours in advance when possible. Employee requests to
work such hours should be reviewed by the supervisor to determine if work demands warrant the
employee working the additional hours, and if so, approved before the work has been performed
when feasible. (2) Make a reasonable effort to use credit hours earned as soon as work schedule
permits. (3) Accurately account for all duty hours. If an employee knowingly submits false time
and attendance information, they may be subject to disciplinary action.
6. Time Keeper Responsibilities. The timekeeper or Finance Customer Service
Representative, who inputs the organization’s time and attendance, must submit a Work
Schedule Change memo for each employee and update the work schedule change in DCPS prior
to the effective pay period. Additionally, for FWS the timekeeper must use appropriate time and
attendance codes for credit hours earned (CD) and credit hours used (CN).




                                              CHRISTOPHER C. SHARPE, Colonel, USAF
                                              Director, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
USAFEI36-803 5 MARCH 2012                                                                     5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
5 USC Subpart E, Chapter II Secs 6120-6128, Flexible and Compressed Work Schedules
Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 550, Section 111, Administration of Overtime Pay
Title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 610, Subpart D, Flexible and Compressed Work
Schedules
Privacy Act of 1974
Federal Workforce Flexibility Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-411, October 30, 2004)
DoD 1400.25 SC 1930.15, Compensatory Time Off for Travel, December 2008
AFI 36-807, Weekly and Daily Scheduling of Work and Holiday Observances, 21 June 1999
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
USAFEI 36-801, Overtime, Compensatory Time, and Compensatory Time for Travel Request
and Approval, 26 March 2009
Office of Personnel Management, Handbook on Alternative Work Schedules
Prescribed Forms
USAFE Form 96, CWS Work Schedule Change Request, 5 March 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AWS—Alternative Work Schedule
CWS—Compressed Work Schedule
DoD—Department of Defense
FWS—Flexible Work Schedule
NSPS—National Security Personnel System
PP—Pay Period
T&A—Time and Attendance
US—United States
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
