BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                       INSTRUCTION 36-114
EUROPE
                                                                                     31 MAY 2012

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                     STAFFING PROCEDURES FOR NON-US
                                                                   POSITIONS IN ITALY




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/A1KC                                                      Certified by: USAFE/A1K
                                                                           (Ms. Monique Botting)
                                                                                         Pages: 8



This instruction implements AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities.
It establishes policy and procedures for internal placement as well as external recruitment of
Non-US employees in Italy. The provisions of this policy apply to all Non-US civilian
employees/positions of US Forces and Department of Defense (DoD) elements in Italy who are
administered and serviced by a USAFE Civilian Personnel Office (CPO). It does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) units. This instruction requires
collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 5
USC 552(a) and by any applicable Italian Law on protection of worker’s privacy. System of
records notice OPM/GOVT-1, General Personnel Records (June 19, 2006, 71 FR 35356)
applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force
Records      Information     Management       System      (AFRIMS)      on     the    AF     Portal:
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.              Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) HQ
USAFE/A1KC (usafe.a1kkacivilianpolicy@ramstein.af.mil) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. This instruction can be supplemented; however, it
must be coordinated with HQ USAFE/A1KC.
 2                                                                 USAFEI36-114 31 MAY 2012


1. Purpose: To establish policy and procedures to fill Non-US positions in Italy with local
national personnel through internal and external recruitment sources.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Commanders, supervisors, and selecting officials will:
        2.1.1. Forecast personnel needs and initiate timely recruitment action.
        2.1.2. Ensure positions are filled with high quality employees.
        2.1.3. Ensure selections of applicants are based on qualification in terms of education,
        experience, skills, professional development, and demonstrated performance.
        2.1.4. Ensure selections are free of discriminatory considerations, and without regard to
        such factors as ethnic origin, gender, religion, or philosophy on life (for example political
        opinion, membership with parties or trade unions), physical handicap, age, or sexual
        identity.
        2.1.5. Refrain from hiring, promoting, favoring or supporting the employment of family
        members and relatives (nepotism).
        2.1.6. Accept surplus Non-US employees referred based on a mandatory placement right
        due to reduction in force (RIF).
        2.1.7. Accept placement of employees incapacitated to perform in their current position
        due to reasons ascertained and certified by the competent medical authorities if a suitable
        position is or becomes available within the organization for which the selecting official is
        responsible. Accept employees with medical reasons or disability.
        2.1.8. Give priority consideration to employees with pay protection.
        2.1.9. Accept placement of employees referred based on their right to priority placement,
        or priority consideration resulting from application of the Conditions of Employment
        (COE) and/or applicable Italian law.
        2.1.10. Provide a detailed justification if none of the referred candidates is considered, or
        upon request by the Civilian Personnel Office (CPO), in support of the selection in
        individual cases.
        2.1.11. Not restrain employees from applying for positions or expose them to any
        adverse actions because of their application for other positions.
        2.1.12. Assure employees selected for promotion or reassignment are released within 30
        calendar days after completion of the selection process. The release date must be
        mutually agreed on by the losing and gaining supervisors and, whenever feasible, should
        coincide with the beginning of a calendar month.
        2.1.13. Ensure that vacancy announcements published by CPO are made available to
        subordinate personnel in a timely manner, for example by posting the announcements on
        the bulletin board.
     2.2. The Civilian Personnel Office will:
        2.2.1. Provide advice and assistance to commanders, supervisors, selecting officials and
        applicants/employees on all aspects of the staffing process.
USAFEI36-114 31 MAY 2012                                                                        3


      2.2.2. Ensure mandatory placement rights and other legal and/or regulatory requirements
      are observed.
      2.2.3. Determine the most effective recruitment process and recruitment source to ensure
      selecting officials are provided with quality candidates, and current employees are given
      opportunities for advancement.
   2.3. Employees should:
      2.3.1. Check bulletin boards and vacancy announcements and apply for vacancies in
      which interested and for which they feel qualified. Employees will not be individually
      informed of vacancies by the CPO.
      2.3.2. Ensure their application or official personnel records contain proof of pertinent
      education, training, and experience acquired. At the latest, employees must report
      changes or additions to their qualification to the CPO when they apply in order to be
      considered for a vacancy.
      2.3.3. Inform the CPO when no longer interested in jobs for which they have applied.
3. Staffing Procedure.
   3.1. Non-competitive recruitment (Exempt from announcement):
      3.1.1. Priority (mandatory) placement of available RIF candidates.
      3.1.2. Priority placement/placement consideration of current employees under pay
      protection, or for medical reasons, or disability, or other reasons emanating from the COE
      and/or applicable Italian law.
      3.1.3. Promotion of an incumbent when the job is upgraded as a result of a change in
      position classification standards or correction of a classification error.
      3.1.4. Promotion resulting from classification to a higher grade of an encumbered
      position due to the addition of duties and responsibilities if the employee meets
      qualification requirements for the reclassified position.
      3.1.5. Promotion of employees initially selected through merit promotion procedures if
      the fact that the initial selection could lead to promotion was made known to all potential
      candidates. This applies in particular to positions filled at a grade level below the target
      grade.
      3.1.6. Management directed reassignments as a result of position review or other specific
      situations.
   3.2. Competitive recruitment. The competitive recruitment process is initiated by the
   position announcement. There are two categories of announcements, which can be advertised
   consecutively or simultaneously:
      3.2.1. Internal (US Forces) announcement.
          3.2.1.1. All permanent positions regardless of the grade level will be advertised
          internally, after all the priority categories have been cleared. The area of
          consideration may include the permanent and temporary base employees, together
          with the AAFES employees working on the installation. As determined by the CPO,
4                                                               USAFEI36-114 31 MAY 2012


           the area of consideration may be expanded to all current non-US employees of US
           Forces installations in Italy (e.g. US Army and US Navy).
           3.2.1.2. The minimum announcement period is 5 workdays.
       3.2.2. External announcement. The CPO will:
           3.2.2.1. Publish lower graded positions and positions for which the internal
           announcement is not likely to produce sufficient candidates in weekly external
           vacancy announcements.
           3.2.2.2. Publish positions with a traditionally high turnover rate by open continuous
           announcements for a minimum period of three months.
           3.2.2.3. Publish announcements to host nation authorities in accordance with legal
           requirements.
           3.2.2.4. Announce temporary positions to external candidates.
           3.2.2.5. Permanent positions may be announced on a case by case basis after
           coordination between the CPO and the selecting supervisor.
           3.2.2.6. The minimum announcement period is 5 workdays.
    3.3. Application. Applicants will submit a signed paper copy of USAFE Form 714,
    Application for Employment with the US Air Force in Italy (Non-US), together with
    supporting testimonials and certificates of qualification to the announcing CPO. The form is
    used to collect information regarding the applicant, his/her education, qualification,
    experience and the vacancy for which he/she applies. USAFE Form 714 is available through
    the AF e-publishing webpage.
       3.3.1. Internal applicants will submit a signed USAFE Form 10, Request for Placement
       Consideration (Non-US).USAFE Form 10 is available through the AF e-publishing
       webpage.
    3.4. Screening and Referral.
       3.4.1. The responsible staffing specialist will:
           3.4.2. For internal announcements:
               3.4.2.1. Screen the Official Personnel Folder (OPF) of current employees,
               including the application of AAFES employees, to determine the qualifications
               using USAFE Form 260, Record of Qualification as a rating device and
               documentary proof of meeting requirements. USAFE Form 260 is available
               through the AF e-publishing webpage.
               3.4.2.2. Refer qualified internal candidates identified on a USAFE Form 355,
               Referral and Selection Register. Internal candidates that have been rated “not
               qualified” will be notified in writing by the CPO. USAFE Form 355 is available
               through the AF e-publishing webpage.
           3.4.2.3. For external announcements:
               3.4.2.3.1. Review the records of all external applicants. Applicants who are
               obviously not eligible for consideration in accordance with the COE and/or
USAFEI36-114 31 MAY 2012                                                                       5


            applicable Italian law are not referred to the selecting supervisor. The supervisor
            will make a tentative selection amongst the applicants eligible for consideration.
            The records of these tentatively selected applicants will be thoroughly reviewed
            against the eligibility requirements. Amongst others, to be eligible for
            consideration, candidates must meet minimum qualifications as prescribed for the
            position.
        3.4.2.4. Conduct the English Language Proficiency testing in accordance with the
        provisions established by USAFEI36-732, English Language Proficiency Testing of
        LN Employees and Applicants. In addition to meeting experience and/or education
        substitution requirements, all candidates must demonstrate the required English
        language proficiency.
        3.4.2.5. Administer the translation test provided by the respective section when
        required by the duties of the position. The completed test material will be forwarded
        to the selecting supervisor for correction.
  3.5. Selection and appointment process.
     3.5.1. Selecting officials have the option and are highly encouraged to interview
     candidates referred for selection, whenever feasible. There is no minimum number of
     candidates that must be interviewed. If interviews are conducted, the selecting supervisor
     will submit a list of questions to the CPO for review prior to scheduling appointments for
     interview.
     3.5.2. Supervisors must not make any commitments and should not make their selection
     known until they have obtained coordination and required clearances on the tentative
     selectee from the CPO.
     3.5.3. Upon receipt of supervisor’s selection, the CPO will:
        3.5.3.1. Notify selected applicants (internal and external) of their selection, and start
        the placement/in-hiring process (including initial pass authorization request).
        3.5.3.2. Not selected internal applicants will be notified in writing of their non-
        selection by the CPO.
        3.5.3.3. External applicants will not be notified by the CPO of their non-selection. It
        is the external applicants’ responsibility to contact the CPO to obtain information
        about the completion and result of the selection process for the position(s) they have
        applied for.
     3.5.4. Resolution of complaints. A CPO representative and the selecting official must
     make every effort to informally resolve an employee’s questions or complaints on matters
     concerning selection. Employees not satisfied with these efforts may submit a formal
     complaint. Mere failure to be selected for a position when proper staffing procedures
     were used is not a basis for formal complaint.
     3.5.5. Safeguarding Application Documents. To ensure information or referral registers
     and qualification records are not disclosed to unauthorized personnel, the following
     procedures apply:
6                                                             USAFEI36-114 31 MAY 2012


       3.5.5.1. Hand carry or send referral registers and any attachments to selecting
       officials in sealed envelopes and return to the CPO in the same manner. Supervisors
       and personnel specialists must not discuss the contents of these documents with
       unauthorized personnel.
       3.5.5.2. Limit applicant’s/employee’s access to information available to all
       competitors.
    3.5.6. Records Maintenance. The CPO will establish and maintain a folder for each
    position fill action. Include a copy of the announcement, the completed referral register,
    and all documents issued for each candidate referred for consideration including copies of
    non-selection letter. Records will be destroyed when no longer needed.
    3.5.7. Official Personnel Folder. The CPO will establish and maintain an OPF. All
    documents regarding the work history, to include application form, additional education
    or work experience achievement certification, certification of fitness for duties issued by
    the competent physician, the English language proficiency score sheet, and any other
    pertinent personal documentation will be filed in the OPF.




                                         CHRISTOPHER C. SHARPE, Colonel, USAF
                                         Director of Manpower, Personnel and Services
USAFEI36-114 31 MAY 2012                                                                 7


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities, 7 March 1995
USAFEI36-732, English Language Proficiency Testing of LN Employees and Applicants 10
November 2006
Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 5 USC 552(a)
Prescribed Forms
USAFE Form 714, Application for Employment with the US Air Force in Italy (Non-US), 23
April 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
SF Form 66, Official Personnel Folder
SF Form 144, Statement of Prior Federal Service – Worksheet, October 1995
OPM/GOVT-1, General Personnel Records, June 19, 2006, 71 FR 35356
USAFE Form 10, Request for Placement Consideration, 1 July 2001
USAFE Form 260, Record of Qualification (Non-US), 15 November 2008
USAFE Form 355, Referral and Selection Register (Non-US.), 21 January 2004

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—- Air Force
AFB—- Air Force Base
AFMAN—- Air Force Manual
AFRC—- Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—- Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—- Air National Guard
COE—- Conditions of Employment
CPO—- Civilian Personnel Office
DoD—- Department of Defense
IAW—In Accordance With
OPF—- Official Personnel Folder
OPR—- Office of Primary Responsibility
 8                                                        USAFEI36-114 31 MAY 2012


RDS—- Records Disposition Schedule
RIF—- Reduction In Force
USAFE—- United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFEI—- United States Air Forces in Europe Instruction
