BY ORDER OF THE                                                                HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                                                 ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-150

                                                                                                          25 AUGUST 2009

                                                                                                                      Personnel

                                                                      APPOINTMENT AND PROMOTION TO
                                                                                    ACADEMIC RANKS

               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFA/DFMI                                                                    Certified by: HQ USAFA/DFEG
                                                                                                (Col Richard Fullerton)
Supersedes:    USAFAI36-150, 21 February 2003                                                                Pages: 22



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-20, Accession of Air Force
Military Personnel, by establishing standards for initial appointment to academic ranks and for
subsequent academic promotion for military and permanent civilian members of the USAF
Academy, Active Duty or Department of Defense, who either primarily teach cadet classes or
primarily conduct research at the Air Force Academy. This instruction does not apply to
personnel who are not Federal government employees. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363,
Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the AFRIMS Records
Disposition       Schedule       (RDS)        located       at     https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.

Summary of Changes

This document has been substantially revised. Major changes include the addition of a research
promotion track and a single required format for the submission of the curriculum vitae.

       1.      Appointments for Academic Teaching Faculty: ....................................................               2
       1.12.   Adopted and Prescribed Forms. .............................................................................    9
2                                                            USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009


Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                  10

Attachment 2—CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO ASSISTANT PROFESSOR-TEACHING 11

Attachment 3—CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR-TEACHING 12

Attachment 4—CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO PROFESSOR-TEACHING                                      14

Attachment 5—FORMAT FOR LISTING SCHOLARLY ACTIVITIES IN ACADEMIC OR
             RESEARCH PROMOTION PACKAGES                                                        16

Attachment 6—CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO ASSISTANT PROFESSOR-RESEARCH 18

Attachment 7—CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR-RESEARCH 19

Attachment 8—CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO PROFESSOR-RESEARCH                                      21


1. Appointments for Academic Teaching Faculty:
    1.1. Initial Appointment Requirements. USAFA Instruction 36-802, Administering and
    Paying Civilian Faculty, addresses initial appointment requirements for civilian faculty at all
    academic levels, and AFI 36-804, Civilian Faculty Pay Plan for Air University and the USAF
    Academy, addresses policy guidance. Civilian Faculty Programs/Studies & Analysis
    (HQ USAFA/DFVS) reviews each applicant's records for compliance with this instruction
    prior to final appointment to the appropriate academic rank.
    1.2. Personnel Assigned to the Directorate of Athletics (HQ USAFA/AD). Individuals
    assigned to the staff of the HQ USAFA/AD (AD) may qualify for appointment to academic
    rank if they teach for-credit athletics courses or Dean of Faculty (DF) courses or research.
    (See Faculty Handbook for guidelines.)
    1.3. Other Personnel Who Teach. Individuals assigned to the staff of the Dean of the
    Faculty (HQ USAFA/DF) or the Commandant of Cadets (HQ USAFA/CW) are initially
    assigned the academic rank of Instructor-Teaching or Instructor-Researcher. They may
    qualify for appointment to higher academic ranks for primarily teaching courses for academic
    credit or primarily accomplishing research if they meet the requirements specified for the
    rank. In order for these individuals to be promoted to a higher academic rank, their academic
    promotion package will be brought forward by the Department Head for which the person is
    serving as a member of the faculty or as a researcher. Additionally, time requirements for
    academic promotion do not include any time spent as a Visiting Professor. Individuals
    assigned to any other non-faculty organization may be similarly entitled Instructor or
    Researcher and also eligible for academic ranks through this same process.
    1.4. Subsequent Promotion. An applicant who applies for and is appointed into a position
    advertised at a specific academic rank begins service at that rank. To be considered for
    subsequent academic promotion, applicants must meet all requirements under paragraph 1.5
    for consideration for promotion to the next academic rank independent of any previous
    academic rank or teaching/researching experience.
USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009                                                                    3


  1.5. Academic Promotions. This section describes minimum requirements individuals must
  fulfill in order to be eligible for academic promotion to the next highest rank. Promotions are
  considered on an individual basis.
     1.5.1. Promotion to Assistant Professor-Teaching. Instructors who complete the
     Ph.D. after arrival, those military faculty members returning to the Academy who hold a
     Ph.D. and had not previously earned the rank of Assistant Professor-Teaching, and those
     with the Ph.D. or appropriate terminal or professional degree who are initially hired at the
     Instructor- teaching level, may submit through their Department Head the USAFA Form
     7, Nomination for Academic Appointment to Assistant Professor-Teaching (available
     electronically at www.e-publishing.af.mil), to the Faculty Personnel Council (FPC) for
     consideration for promotion to Assistant Professor-Teaching. Any and all probationary
     requirements of contracts must be completed before promotion is accomplished. All
     other instructors (non-PhD) may apply by submitting USAFA Form 7 to the FPC for
     consideration for promotion to Assistant Professor-Teaching after completing the
     following requirements (consult the checklist for promotion to Assistant Professor-
     Teaching at Attachment 2).
         1.5.1.1. Applicants for promotion to Assistant Professor-Teaching normally must
         meet the following minimum criteria at the time of promotion.
             1.5.1.1.1. Five (5) years of relevant professional experience.
             1.5.1.1.2. Two (2) years of full time teaching at USAFA.
             1.5.1.1.3. Teach a minimum of ten (10) three (3) semester hour course sections,
             or some combination to equal 30 semester hours total.
             1.5.1.1.4. Service as a course director for one course at USAFA.
         1.5.1.2. Application Date Exception: For returning military members who hold a
         Ph.D. and have not previously been academically promoted to Assistant Professor,
         the USAFA Form 7 (available electronically at www.e-publishing.af.mil) may be
         submitted to the Faculty Personnel Council (FPC) by T2 of their initial semester. If
         recommended by the FPC and approved by the Dean, they will be promoted to
         Assistant Professor–Teaching with an effective date closest to their current arrival at
         USAFA. Applications received after T2 will be included in the normal application
         cycle for that semester.
     1.5.2. Promotion to Assistant Professor- Research. Researchers who complete the
     Ph.D. after arrival, those military faculty members returning to the Academy who hold a
     Ph.D. and had not previously earned the rank of Assistant Professor-Researching, and
     those with the Ph.D. or appropriate terminal or professional degree who were initially
     hired at the Researcher level, may submit through their Department Head the USAFA
     Form 8, Nomination for Appointment to Assistant Professor-Research (available
     electronically at www.e-publishing.af.mil), to the Faculty Personnel Council (FPC) for
     consideration for promotion to Assistant Professor-Research. Any and all probationary
     requirements of contracts must be completed before promotion is accomplished. All
     other Researchers (non-PhD) may apply by submitting USAFA Form 8 to the FPC for
     consideration for promotion to Assistant Professor-Research after completing the
4                                                         USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009


    following requirements (consult the checklist for promotion to Assistant Professor-
    Research at Attachment 6).
       1.5.2.1. Applicants for promotion to Assistant Professor-Research normally must
       meet the following minimum criteria at the time of promotion.
           1.5.2.1.1. A minimum of five (5) years of relevant professional experience.
           1.5.2.1.2. Two (2) years of full-time research engagement at the USAF Academy
           at the rank of Instructor-Researcher. This research engagement may be either
           individual intellectual activity or as part of a team. The research effort must result
           in some contribution to creation of a product that is peer-reviewed outside of
           USAFA, as documented by copies of published journal articles, books,
           scholarship studies, adopted software or other developed or published material; or
           contribute to cadet instruction as documented by senior faculty or the department
           head.
       1.5.2.2. Application Date Exception: For returning military members who hold a
       Ph.D. and have not previously been academically promoted to Assistant Professor-
       Research, the USAFA Form 8 (available electronically at www.e-publishing.af.mil)
       may be submitted to the Faculty Personnel Council (FPC) by T2 of their initial
       semester. If recommended by the FPC and approved by the Dean, they will be
       promoted to Assistant Professor–Teaching with an effective date closest to their
       current arrival at USAFA. Applications received after T2 will be included in the
       normal application cycle for that semester.
    1.5.3. Promotion to Associate Professor-Teaching. Assistant Professors-Teaching
    who believe themselves qualified may seek promotion to Associate Professor-Teaching
    by applying in writing. The application, in the form of a memorandum to the FPC,
    should spell out the applicant’s self-assessment of scholarly strengths; draw attention to
    academic, instructional, and service achievements, noting areas of emphasis; and include
    a curriculum vitae using the approved format (see Attachment 5). Applications must
    include a cover memorandum from the department head offering a realistic assessment of
    the applicant's qualifications (consult the checklist for promotion to Associate Professor-
    Teaching at Attachment 3).
       1.5.3.1. Applicants for promotion to Associate Professor-Teaching normally must
       meet the following minimum criteria at the time of promotion.
           1.5.3.1.1. An earned Terminal or Professional degree in an appropriate discipline.
           1.5.3.1.2. Five (5) years of relevant professional experience, including three (3)
           years of full-time faculty membership, two (2) years of which must have been at
           USAFA at the rank of Assistant Professor-Teaching, while holding a terminal or
           professional degree.
           1.5.3.1.3. Service as a course director for one or more courses at USAFA.
       1.5.3.2. Each applicant must submit a portfolio of credentials providing evidence of
       all the following:
           1.5.3.2.1. Demonstration of continuing teaching excellence at USAFA, through
           such documents as peer evaluations, student evaluations, self-evaluations, syllabi
USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009                                                                   5


            developed by the applicant, or other sources the applicant wishes to include.
            1.5.3.2.2. . Demonstration of continuing achievement in relevant, original
            intellectual activity that is peer reviewed outside of USAFA as documented by
            copies of published journal articles, books, scholarship studies, adopted software
            outside USAFA; by other developed or published material; or by a record of
            active involvement in the discipline as evidenced by significant and continuing
            contribution to professional activities. Note: The USAF Academy recognizes the
            differing opportunities and expectations among the academic disciplines, and
            based upon the discipline the peer review may appear in different forms.
            1.5.3.2.3. Demonstration of continuing service to the nation, institution,
            discipline, and profession through participation in academic committees,
            institutional committees, cadet activities, professional organizations, national
            committees, and similar professional affiliations.
        1.5.3.3. Promotion for Special Circumstances. Though not generally the case,
        holders of a Master's Degree may, under special circumstances, apply for promotion
        to Associate Professor-Teaching. In addition to the requirements of length of relevant
        professional experience, service as a course director, demonstration of teaching
        excellence, and service to the nation, institution, discipline, and the profession, the
        deciding factor in the decision to apply is scholarship. This requires a research or
        publishing record that is, upon investigation by the Faculty Personnel Council,
        deemed to be exceptional, prompting extensive national recognition of expertise or
        contribution. To ensure this credibility, the Faculty Personnel Council may choose to
        request an outside evaluation of the submitted credentials be accomplished by a
        similar Higher Learning Commission (HLC)-accredited undergraduate institution.
        An appropriate salary determination will be made based on regulatory guidelines and
        market analysis.
     1.5.4. Promotion to Associate Professor-Research. Assistant Professors-Research
     who believe themselves qualified may seek promotion to Associate Professor-Research
     by applying in writing. The application, in the form of a memorandum to the FPC,
     should spell out the applicant’s self-assessment of scholarly strengths; draw attention to
     service achievements in their discipline, noting areas of emphasis; and include a
     curriculum vitae using the approved format (see Attachment 5). Applications must
     include a cover memorandum from the department head offering a realistic assessment of
     the applicant's qualifications (consult the checklist for promotion to Associate Professor-
     Research at Attachment 7).
        1.5.4.1. Applicants for promotion to Associate Professor-Research normally must
        meet the following minimum criteria at the time of promotion.
            1.5.4.1.1. An earned terminal or professional degree in an appropriate discipline.
            1.5.4.1.2. Five (5) years of relevant professional experience, including three (3)
            years of full-time research engagement, two (2) years of which must have been at
            USAFA at the rank of Assistant Professor-Research, while holding a terminal or
            professional degree.
6                                                         USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009


       1.5.4.2. Each applicant must submit a portfolio of credentials providing evidence of
       all the following:
           1.5.4.2.1. Demonstration of continuing achievement in relevant, original
           intellectual activity that is peer reviewed outside of USAFA as documented by
           copies of published journal articles, books, scholarly studies, adopted software
           outside USAFA, or by other developed or published material. Note: USAFA
           recognizes the differing opportunities and expectations among the academic
           disciplines, and based upon the discipline the peer review may appear in different
           forms.
           1.5.4.2.2. Demonstration of continuing service to the discipline.
           1.5.4.2.3. Contribution to cadet instruction. This may take multiple forms.
           Examples include cadet engagement in the research, results of the research being
           included in classroom content, or perhaps involvement in faculty professional
           development.
       1.5.4.3. Promotion for Special Circumstances. Though not generally the case,
       holders of a Master's Degree may, under special circumstances, apply for promotion
       to Associate Professor-Research. In addition to the requirements of length of relevant
       professional experience, service to the discipline, and contribution to cadet
       instruction, the deciding factor in the decision to apply is scholarship. This requires a
       research or publishing record that is, upon investigation by the Faculty Personnel
       Council, deemed to be exceptional, prompting extensive national recognition of
       expertise or contribution. To ensure this credibility, the Faculty Personnel Council
       may choose to request an outside evaluation of the submitted credentials be
       accomplished by a similar HLC-accredited undergraduate institution. An appropriate
       salary determination will be made based on regulatory guidelines and market
       analysis.
    1.5.5. Promotion to Professor-Teaching. Associate Professors-Teaching who believe
    themselves qualified may seek promotion to Professor-Teaching by applying in writing.
    The application, in the form of a memorandum to the FPC, should spell out the
    applicant’s self-assessment of scholarly strengths, draw attention to academic,
    instructional, and service achievements, noting areas of emphasis, and include a
    curriculum vitae using the approved format (see Attachment 5). Applications must
    include a cover memorandum from the department head offering a realistic assessment of
    the applicant's qualifications (consult the checklist for promotion to Professor-Teaching
    at Attachment 4).
       1.5.5.1. Each applicant for promotion to Professor-Teaching must normally meet the
       following minimum criteria at the time of promotion:
           1.5.5.1.1. An earned Terminal or Professional degree in a discipline appropriate
           for the teaching activity.
           1.5.5.1.2. Ten (10) years of relevant professional experience, including at least
           six (6) years of full-time faculty membership, at least three (3) years of which
           must have been at USAFA at the rank of Associate Professor-Teaching.
USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009                                                                    7


            1.5.5.1.3. Service as a course director of original courses or of multi-instructor
            courses at USAFA.
        1.5.5.2. Each applicant must also submit a portfolio of credentials to provide
        evidence of all the following:
            1.5.5.2.1. Demonstration of continuing teaching excellence at USAFA through
            such documents as peer evaluations, student evaluations, self-evaluations, and
            syllabi created by the applicant, or by other sources the applicant chooses.
            1.5.5.2.2. Demonstration of continuing exceptional achievement in relevant,
            original intellectual activity that is peer reviewed outside of USAFA as
            documented by copies of published journal articles, books, scholarship studies,
            adopted software outside USAFA, grants awarded, advanced studies directed, or
            other material published or developed since promotion to Associate Professor-
            Teaching; a record of active involvement as evidenced by a substantiated national
            or international reputation.
            1.5.5.2.3. Demonstration of distinguished service to the nation, the institution, the
            discipline, and the profession through participation in academic committees,
            institutional committees, cadet activities, and similar professional affiliations.
            Note: USAFA recognizes the differing opportunities and expectations among the
            academic disciplines, and based upon the discipline the peer review may appear in
            different forms.
     1.5.6. Promotion to Professor-Research. Associate Professors-Research who believe
     themselves qualified may seek promotion to Professor-Research by applying in writing.
     The application, in the form of a memorandum to the FPC, should spell out the
     applicant’s self-assessment of scholarly strengths, draw attention to academic discipline
     service achievements, noting areas of emphasis, and include a curriculum vitae using the
     approved format (see Attachment 5). Applications must include a cover memorandum
     from the department head offering a realistic assessment of the applicant's qualifications
     (consult the checklist for promotion to Professor-Research at Attachment 8).
        1.5.6.1. Each applicant for promotion to Professor-Research must normally meet the
        following minimum criteria at the time of promotion:
            1.5.6.1.1. An earned Terminal or Professional degree in a discipline appropriate
            for the research.
            1.5.6.1.2. Ten (10)years of relevant professional experience, including at least six
            (6) years of full-time research experience, at least three (3) years of which must
            have been at USAFA at the rank of Associate Professor-Research.
        1.5.6.2. Each applicant must also submit a portfolio of credentials to provide
        evidence of all the following:
            1.5.6.2.1. Demonstration of continuing achievement in relevant, original
            intellectual activity that is peer reviewed outside of USAFA as documented by
            copies of published journal articles, books, scholarly studies, adopted software
            outside USAFA, or by other developed or published material. Note. The USAF
            Academy recognizes the differing opportunities and expectations among the
8                                                            USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009


               academic disciplines, and based upon the discipline the peer-review may appear
               in different forms.
               1.5.6.2.2. Demonstration of continuing service to the discipline at the national
               and/or international level.
               1.5.6.2.3. Contribution to cadet instruction in significant ways. This may take
               multiple forms. Examples include cadet engagement in the research, results of the
               research being included in classroom content, or perhaps involvement in faculty
               professional development.
    1.6. Non-creditable Professional and Personal Activities for Those Seeking Promotion
    to Associate and Full Professor-Teaching or -Research. Certain activities will not be
    considered creditable for consideration toward academic appointment or promotion. Those
    include:
       1.6.1. Personal activities such as private involvement or office-holding in charitable,
       social, or religious organizations.
       1.6.2. Commercial consulting or commercial publishing not related to one's academic
       discipline.
       1.6.3. Scholarship, teaching, or research experience unrelated to the academic discipline
       of appointment or accomplished before award of the terminal degree.
       1.6.4. Scholarship to satisfy requirements for a doctoral dissertation. However, ―spinoff‖
       books or articles may count.
       1.6.5. Teaching experience as an instructor or researcher accomplished at a sister service
       Academy or in the Reserve Officer Training Corps may not apply toward the minimum
       USAFA tenure.
    1.7. Additional Guidance. Faculty members may not migrate between teaching and
    research tracks for promotion, but remain in the track in which they were initially hired.
    Faculty members may not simultaneously hold more than one academic rank or rank in more
    than one discipline. For instance, faculty may not hold both teaching and research ranks, be
    an Assistant Professor in both Foreign Languages and English, or hold the rank of Assistant
    Professor-Teaching and request promotion to Associate Professor-Research.
    1.8. Appeals Procedure. Department heads may appeal promotion recommendations of the
    Faculty Personnel Council to the Dean of the Faculty. The Dean may ask for the
    recommendation of the body of permanent professors. The Dean remains the selection and
    promotion authority for the purposes of this instruction.
    1.9. When a Department Head Declines to Endorse a Nomination. If a department head
    declines to endorse an application, applicants may submit their portfolios directly to the FPC.
    If the FPC recommends approval, the Dean will then consult with the department head
    involved before taking final action. If the FPC recommends disapproval, the applicant may
    request the Dean to appoint a review committee composed of at least five senior faculty
    members (including at least two from the applicant's academic division), who hold either the
    academic rank to which the applicant aspires or a higher academic rank. The review
    committee will examine the portfolio presented and recommend action to the Dean, who is
    the final authority.
USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009                                                                 9


   1.10. When a Department Head Declines to Endorse an Appeal. If a department head
   declines to endorse an appeal, applicants whose promotion has been denied may request the
   Dean to appoint a review committee composed of at least five (5) faculty members (including
   at least two (2) from the same academic division) who hold either the academic rank to
   which the applicant aspires or a higher academic rank. The review committee will examine
   the portfolio presented and recommend action to the Dean, who is the final authority.
   1.11. When and How to Apply. Academic promotions normally take effect on 1 January or
   1 July. Applicants must provide (for Assistant Professor-Teaching) USAFA Form 7, or (for
   Assistant Professor-Research) USAFA Form 8 electronically to the FPC Administrator. For
   Associate Professor or Professor-Teaching or -Research a memorandum of application, a
   memorandum of assessment from the department head, and a curriculum vitae, each
   electronically combined in one document sent to the FPC Administrator (see example of FPC
   website), and a portfolio of credentials in one printed copy to the Dean of Faculty
   Administrative office (HQ USAFA/DFSSP), according to the schedule announced by the
   Faculty Personnel Council Administrator.
      1.11.1. Application Date Exception: For returning military members who hold a Ph.D.
      and have not previously been academically promoted to Assistant Professor-Teaching,
      the USAFA Form 7, or Assistant Professor – Research, the USAFA Form 8, may be
      submitted to the Faculty Personnel Council (FPC) by T2 of their initial semester. If
      recommended by the FPC and approved by the Dean, they will be promoted to Assistant
      Professor–Teaching with an effective date closest to their current arrival at USAFA.
      Applications received after T2 will be included in the normal application cycle for that
      semester.

1.12. Adopted and Prescribed Forms.

1.12.1. Adopted Forms:

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

1.12.2. Prescribed Forms:

USAFA Form 7, Nomination for Academic Appointment to Assistant Professor-Teaching
USAFA Form 8, Nomination for Appointment to Assistant Professor-Research




                                           DANA H. BORN, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Dean of the Faculty
10                                                          USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-804, Civilian Faculty Pay Plan for Air University and the USAF Academy
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel
USAFAI 36-802, Administering and Paying Civilian Faculty

Terms
Adjunct Faculty—Faculty who instruct one or more credit courses but who are not assigned to
HQ USAFA/DF.
College—Level Teaching-Occurs at a regionally accredited institution authorized to grant at
least a bachelor's degree.
Course Director—The faculty member in charge of a course. The course director has control of
subjects presented and the method of teaching. Course directors prepare syllabi and set grade
guidelines. Merely carrying out the directions of a committee of instruction or of a supervisor
does not qualify for course director experience regardless of the title the faculty member may be
awarded. Holding a position of Assistant Course Director, even in a multi-sectional course, does
not satisfy this requirement. Except under unusual circumstances, a course must have at least 10
students to qualify for earning course director credit.
Department Head—The head of an academic department (HQ USAFA/DF) or an instructional
division (CW or HQ USAFA/AD).
Primarily teach academic classes—Individuals who have been hired as academic faculty.
These individuals may do some research and publishing, but their primary responsibility is cadet
instruction.
Primarily conduct research—Individuals who have been hired as researchers. These
individuals may occasionally teach a cadet course, but their primary responsibility is research,
publishing, and contribution to cadet instruction through research.
Professional Degree—A degree conferred after three (3) or more years of post-graduate study in
a profession (for example, M.D., J.D.).
Terminal Degree—The highest degree normally awarded in a particular discipline. Usually that
degree is the Ph.D. In disciplines such as art, creative writing, or music, the M.F.A. is the
accepted terminal degree.
USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009                                                                    11


                                         Attachment 2
     CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO ASSISTANT PROFESSOR-TEACHING

A2.1. Application . Submit one electronic (1) copy of USAFA Form 7, Nomination for
Academic Appointment to Assistant Professor-Teaching (available electronically at www.e-
publishing.af.mil) that addresses the following:
   A2.1.1. Personal data: Name, grade, department or organization, requested date of
   appointment, educational data (degrees held, when received, from what institution of higher
   learning). If the candidate already holds a terminal degree, completion of the following two
   sections is not required.
   A2.1.2. Teaching experience:      Chronological listing of years and sections of USAFA
   teaching.
   A2.1.3. Experience as a USAFA Course Director: List semester and year, course title and
   number, and number of students (all sections) of course directorships at USAFA.
A2.2. Minimum Criteria Satisfied:
   A2.2.1. Earned Terminal or Professional degree in hand, or
   A2.2.2. Terminal or Professional degree completed and degree to be awarded on ________,
   (this date must fall within the current semester dates of the application) or
   A2.2.3. Master's degree in an appropriate discipline, and
       A2.2.3.1. Five (5) years relevant professional experience,
       A2.2.3.2. Two (2) years of full-time teaching at USAFA
       A2.2.3.3. Teach a minimum of ten (10) three (3) Semester Hour course sections, or some
       combination to equal thirty (30) semester hours total.
       A2.2.3.4. Course Director at USAFA.
A2.3. Application Date Exception: For returning military members who hold a Ph.D. and
have not previously been academically promoted to Assistant Professor, the USAFA Form 7 may
be submitted to the Faculty Personnel Council (FPC) by T2 of their initial semester. If
recommended by the FPC and approved by the Dean, they will be promoted to Assistant
Professor–Teaching with an effective date closest to their current arrival at USAFA.
Applications received after T2 will be included in the normal application cycle for that semester.
12                                                              USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009


                                            Attachment 3
      CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR-TEACHING

A3.1. Memorandum of Application. Submit memorandum of Application, Curriculum Vitae
and Department Head’s Assessment in one electronic file to the FPC Administrator (sample
available on FPC website.) Memorandum should contain the following:
     A3.1.1. A statement identifying how you satisfy minimum criteria including:
        A3.1.1.1. Earned Terminal or Professional degree
        A3.1.1.2. Five (5) years of professional experience
        A3.1.1.3. Three (3) years full-time faculty membership
        A3.1.1.4. At least two (2) years of the required three (3) must be teaching at the rank of
        Assistant Professor at USAFA while holding a Professional or Terminal degree
        A3.1.1.5. Service as course director for one or more courses at USAF Academy.
     A3.1.2. A self-assessment of scholarly strengths and areas of emphasis
     A3.1.3. A listing of specific service to the institution as evidenced through recognized
     achievements, affiliations, and continuing service accomplished to the nation, institution,
     discipline, and profession including cadet activities, institutional committees, academic
     committees, and other citizenship service.
     A3.1.4. An accounting for emphases and omissions (lapses in professional pursuits due to
     life events).
A3.2. A Curriculum Vitae (see Attachment 5 for format). Should contain the following:
     A3.2.1. Record of all earned degrees including terminal or professional degrees.
     A3.2.2. Intellectual activities, including but not limited to:
        A3.2.2.1. Journal articles, books and scholarly studies.
        A3.2.2.2. Software that has been adopted outside USAFA.
     A3.2.3. Conference presentations
     A3.2.4. Grants awarded.
A3.3. Department Head’s Assessment
A3.4. Portfolio of Credentials. Submit one hard copy each (typically in a binder):
     A3.4.1. Evidence of teaching excellence.
     A3.4.2. Evidence of relevant, original intellectual activity.
        A3.4.2.1. Provide selected examples of:
            A3.4.2.1.1. Published journal articles, books, scholarship studies.
            A3.4.2.1.2. Software produced and adopted outside of USAFA.
            A3.4.2.1.3. Other developed or published material.
USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009                                                                   13


  A3.4.3. Evidence (letters of appreciation, letters of appointment, certificates of appreciation
  as available) of continuing service to the nation, institution, discipline, and profession
  through participation in cadet activities, institutional committees, academic committees, or
  other citizenship service.
     A3.4.3.1. Examples include but are not limited to:
         A3.4.3.1.1. Cadet activities such as SPEA, STO, AAOCA
         A3.4.3.1.2. Institutional committees
         A3.4.3.1.3. Academic committees
         A3.4.3.1.4. Other citizenship service
14                                                             USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009


                                           Attachment 4
              CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO PROFESSOR-TEACHING

A4.1. Memorandum of Application. Submit Memorandum of Application, Curriculum Vitae
and Department Head’s Assessment in one electronic file to the FPC Administrator (sample
available on FPC website) Memorandum should contain the following:
     A4.1.1. A statement identifying how you satisfy minimum criteria including:
        A4.1.1.1. Earned terminal or professional degree.
        A4.1.1.2. Ten (10) years of relevant professional experience.
        A4.1.1.3. Six (6) years full-time faculty membership.
        A4.1.1.4. At least three (3) years of which must be teaching at the rank of Associate
        Professor at USAFA.
        A4.1.1.5. Course Director of original or multi-instructor courses at USAFA
     A4.1.2. A self-assessment of scholarly strengths and areas of emphasis
     A4.1.3. A listing of specific service to the institution and nation as evidenced through
        A4.1.3.1. Local, national, and international affiliations
        A4.1.3.2. Continuing service accomplished to the nation, institution, discipline, and
        profession including events such as
            A4.1.3.2.1. Cadet activities
            A4.1.3.2.2. Institutional and disciplinary committees
            A4.1.3.2.3. Academic committees
            A4.1.3.2.4. Other citizenship service
     A4.1.4. Record of grants received.
     A4.1.5. Record of advanced studies directed.
     A4.1.6. Record of national or international involvement in the discipline.
        A4.1.6.1. Examples include
            A4.1.6.1.1. Board of National Conference Committee or Organizing Committee
            A4.1.6.1.2. Invited Speaker.
            A4.1.6.1.3. Plenary Speaker
            A4.1.6.1.4. Identified expert as documented by invitations for consultation.
            A4.1.6.1.5. Requested peer-reviewer for publications.
     A4.1.7. Evidence (letters of appreciation, letters of appointment, certificates of appreciation
     as available) of distinguished service to the nation, institution, discipline, and profession.
     A4.1.8. An accounting for emphases and omissions (enhancements or lapses in professional
     pursuits due to life events)
USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009                                                                       15


A4.2. A Curriculum Vitae (see Attachment 5 for format). Should contain a record of all
earned degrees including terminal or professional degrees; all intellectual activities, including but
not limited to, journal articles, books, scholarship studies, software, presentations, grants
awarded, advanced studies directed, and active involvement in the discipline as substantiated by
national or international reputation.
A4.3. Department Head’s Assessment.
A4.4. Portfolio of Credentials . Submit one (1) hard copy each (typically in a binder):
   A4.4.1. Evidence of continued teaching excellence.
   A4.4.2. Evidence of continuing relevant, original intellectual activity since research
   promotion to Associate Professor.
       A4.4.2.1. Provide selected examples of:
           A4.4.2.1.1. Published journal articles, books, or scholarly studies.
           A4.4.2.1.2. Software produced and adopted outside of USAFA.
           A4.4.2.1.3. Other developed or published material
   A4.4.3. Record of grants received.
   A4.4.4. Record of advanced studies directed.
   A4.4.5. Record of national or international involvement in the discipline.
       A4.4.5.1. Examples include:
           A4.4.5.1.1. National Conference Committee Board or Organizing Committee
           A4.4.5.1.2. Invited Speaker.
           A4.4.5.1.3. Plenary Speaker
           A4.4.5.1.4. Identified expert as documented by invitations for consultation.
           A4.4.5.1.5. Requested peer-reviewer for publications
   A4.4.6. Evidence (letters of appreciation, letters of appointment, certificates of appreciation
   as available) of distinguished service to the nation, institution, discipline, and profession.
       A4.4.6.1. Examples include:
           A4.4.6.1.1. Cadet activities such as SPEA, STO, AAOCA.
           A4.4.6.1.2. Institutional committee
           A4.4.6.1.3. Academic committees
           A4.4.6.1.4. Other citizenship service.
16                                                             USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009


                                           Attachment 5
FORMAT FOR LISTING SCHOLARLY ACTIVITIES IN ACADEMIC OR RESEARCH
                      PROMOTION PACKAGES

A5.1. Application packages for promotion to the rank of Associate Professor or Full
Professor must include a curriculum vitae. Within that vitae, a list of scholarly works must be
divided into the following categories, using the following headings. If you have no works to
include in one of these categories, omit that category and heading from your list.
A5.2. Peer-reviewed Scholarly Publications
     A5.2.1. Works completed since my last academic promotion at USAFA:
     A5.2.2. Works completed before my last academic promotion at USAFA:
     A5.2.3. Notes:
         A5.2.3.1. Include in this section peer-reviewed scholarly: journal articles, conference
         papers, books, book chapters, essays, and other creative works.
         A5.2.3.2. Do not include in this section: works submitted but not yet accepted for
         publication, publications which have not undergone external (to USAFA) peer-review,
         non-scholarly works (e.g., trade magazine articles, newsletter articles).
         A5.2.3.3. Clearly divide this section into works completed since your last academic
         promotion and those completed prior to your last academic promotion.
         A5.2.3.4. For each work, include at a minimum all contributing authors (clearly
         indicating principal versus non-principal authorship), the publication name, and the
         publication date.
         A5.2.3.5. When possible, provide evidence of the publication's selectivity (e.g., the
         acceptance rate for articles in the volume including your publication) and reputation (e.g.,
         circulation).
         A5.2.3.6. When possible, provide evidence of the weight of your work (e.g., citation
         count).
         A5.2.3.7. If the work has been accepted for publication, but not yet published, please
         include a copy of the letter of acceptance in your package.
A5.3. Other Scholarly Publications
Other scholarly publications completed since my last academic promotion at USAFA:
Other scholarly publications completed before my last academic promotion at USAFA:

Notes:

        Include in this section other scholarly publications not listed above such as: technical
         reports, experience reports, and reviews of other scholars' work.
        Do not include in this section works submitted but not yet accepted for publication.
        Clearly divide this section into works completed since your last academic promotion and
         those completed prior to your last academic promotion.
USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009                                                                     17


        For each work, include at a minimum all contributing authors (clearly indicating principal
         versus non-principal authorship), the publication name, and the publication date.
A5.4. Scholarly Presentations
Scholarly presentations completed since my last academic promotion at USAFA:

Scholarly presentations completed before my last academic promotion at USAFA:

Notes:

     Include in this section unpublished presentations of scholarly work such as: conference
      presentations, workshop presentations, invited presentations.
     Do not include in this section non-scholarly presentations such as: non-research project
      briefings, instructional presentations, and tutorials.
     Clearly divide this section into presentations given since your last academic promotion
      and those completed prior to your last academic promotion.
     Each presentation's citation must include: all presenters (if you were not the sole
      presenter), the presentation forum, and the presentation date.
A5.5. Other Scholarly Work
Other scholarly work completed since my last academic promotion at USAFA:

Other scholarly work completed before my last academic promotion at USAFA:

Notes:

   1. Include in this section unpublished scholarly work including, but not limited to: research
      consulting work, patents, original courseware, original software, service on scholarly
      conference committees, and service as a publication editor or reviewer.
   2. Clearly divide this section into work performed since your last academic promotion and
      work completed prior to your last academic promotion.
   3. Each work cited must include: all collaborators and the dates during which the work was
      performed.
A5.6. Work Submitted for Publication Include in this section works you have submitted for
publication which have not yet formally been accepted. Note that, in general, the Faculty
Personnel Council gives little consideration to publications submitted but not yet accepted
18                                                               USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009


                                           Attachment 6
      CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO ASSISTANT PROFESSOR-RESEARCH

A6.1. Application . Submit one (1) electronic copy of USAFA Form 8, Nomination for
Appointment to Assistant Professor-Research (available electronically at www.e-
publishing.af.mil) to the FPC Administrator that addresses the following:
     A6.1.1. Personal data:      Name, grade, department or organization, request date of
     appointment, educational data (degrees held, when received, from what institution of higher
     learning). If the candidate already holds a terminal degree, completion of the following two
     sections is not required.
     A6.1.2. Research experience: Chronological listing of research projects accomplished or
     currently in progress since employment at USAFA.
        A6.1.2.1. List semester, year, research project title.
        A6.1.2.2. Identify your participation in the research. Provide in the form of a
        memorandum the current status of each project. If completed, attach copies of completed
        drafts, published documents or other verification of the work completed to the USAFA
        Form 8. Examples include but are not limited to:
            A6.1.2.2.1. Independent, original research.
            A6.1.2.2.2. Team member assigned to complete __________.
            A6.1.2.2.3. Collected and analyzed data.
     A6.1.3. Contributions to cadet learning: Provide types and extent of your contribution to
     cadet learning, if any.
A6.2. Minimum Criteria Satisfied:
     A6.2.1. Earned Terminal or Professional degree in hand, or
     A6.2.2. Terminal or Professional degree completed and degree to be awarded on ________,
     (this date must fall within the current semester dates of the application) or
     A6.2.3. Master's degree in an appropriate discipline, and
        A6.2.3.1. Five (5) years relevant professional experience,
        A6.2.3.2. Two (2) years of full-time researching at USAFA,
        A6.2.3.3. Contribution to cadet learning.
A6.3. Application Date Exception: For returning military members who hold a Ph.D. and
have not previously been academically promoted to Assistant Professor-Research, the USAFA
Form 8 may be submitted to the Faculty Personnel Council (FPC) by T2 of their initial semester.
If recommended by the FPC and approved by the Dean, they will be promoted to Assistant
Professor–Research with an effective date closest to their current arrival at USAFA.
Applications received after T2 will be included in the normal application cycle for that semester.
USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009                                                                     19


                                          Attachment 7
     CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR-RESEARCH

A7.1. Memorandum of Application. Submit Memorandum of Application, Curriculum Vitae
and Department Head’s Assessment in one electronic file to the FPC Administrator (sample
available on FPC website.) Memorandum should contain the following:
   A7.1.1. A statement identifying how you satisfy minimum criteria including:
       A7.1.1.1. Earned Terminal or Professional degree
       A7.1.1.2. Five years of professional experience
       A7.1.1.3. Three (3) years as a full-time researcher
       A7.1.1.4. At least two (2) years, of the required three (3), must be researching at the rank
       of Assistant Professor-Research at USAFA while holding a Professional or Terminal
       degree.
   A7.1.2. A self-assessment of research strengths and areas of emphasis
   A7.1.3. Demonstration of continuing achievement in relevant, original research activity that
   is peer reviewed outside of USAFA as documented by copies of published journal articles,
   books, scholarly studies, software adopted outside of USAFA, or by other developed or
   published material.
   A7.1.4. An accounting for emphases and omissions (lapses in professional pursuits due to
   life events).
   A7.1.5. Evidence of contribution to cadet learning.
A7.2. Curriculum Vitae. Submit your curriculum vitae (see Attachment 5 for format),
including a record of earned degrees, including terminal or professional degrees, all publications,
presentations, grants, or other intellectual activities.
A7.3. Department Head’s Assessment
A7.4. Portfolio of one (1) hard copy each (typically in a binder):
   A7.4.1. Evidence of relevant, original intellectual activity.
       A7.4.1.1. Provide examples of:
       A7.4.1.2. 1 Published journal articles, books, scholarship studies
       A7.4.1.3. 2 Software produced and adopted outside of USAFA.
           A7.4.1.4. Other developed or published material.
   A7.4.2. Record of other active involvement in the discipline.
       A7.4.2.1. Examples include:
           A7.4.2.1.1. National Conference attendance and presentation
           A7.4.2.1.2. Invited Speaker.
           A7.4.2.1.3. Consulting
20                                                            USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009


            A7.4.2.1.4. Participation in USAFA research committee.
     A7.4.3. Evidence of contribution to cadet learning.
        A7.4.3.1. Examples include:
            A7.4.3.1.1. Inclusion of cadets in research projects.
            A7.4.3.1.2. Publishing with cadets.
            A7.4.3.1.3. Research information to faculty for inclusion in course content
            A7.4.3.1.4. Presentations, distribution of published research to USAFA faculty.
USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009                                                                     21


                                          Attachment 8
            CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO PROFESSOR-RESEARCH

A8.1. Memorandum of Application. Submit Memorandum of Application, Curriculum
Vitae and Department Head’s Assessment in one electronic file to the FPC Administrator
(sample available on FPC website.) Memorandum should contain the following:
   A8.1.1. A statement identifying how you satisfy minimum criteria including:
       A8.1.1.1. Earned Terminal or Professional degree
       A8.1.1.2. Ten (10) years of research experience
       A8.1.1.3. Six (6) years as a full-time researcher
       A8.1.1.4. At least three (3) years, of the required six (6), must be researching at the rank
       of Associate Professor-Research at USAFA while holding a Professional or Terminal
       degree.
   A8.1.2. A self-assessment of research strengths and areas of emphasis
   A8.1.3. Demonstration of continuing achievement in relevant, original research activity that
   is peer reviewed outside of USAFA as documented by copies of published journal articles,
   books, scholarly studies, adopted software outside USAFA, or by other developed or
   published material.
   A8.1.4. An accounting for emphases and omissions (lapses in professional pursuits due to
   life events).
   A8.1.5. Evidence of contribution to cadet learning.
A8.2. Curriculum Vitae. Submit your curriculum vitae (see Attachment 5 for format),
including a record of earned degrees, including terminal or professional degrees, all publications,
presentations, grants, or other intellectual activities.
A8.3. Department Head’s Assessment
   A8.3.1. Review
   A8.3.2. Record of grants received.
   A8.3.3. Record of advanced studies directed.
   A8.3.4. Record of national or international involvement in the discipline.
       A8.3.4.1. Examples include:
           A8.3.4.1.1. National Conference Committee Board or Organizing Committee
           A8.3.4.1.2. Invited Speaker
           A8.3.4.1.3. Plenary Speaker
           A8.3.4.1.4. Identified expert as documented by invitations for consultation.
           A8.3.4.1.5. Requested peer-reviewer for publications
   A8.3.5. Evidence of contribution to cadet learning.
22                                                           USAFAI36-150 25 AUGUST 2009


        A8.3.5.1. Examples include:
           A8.3.5.1.1. Inclusion of cadets in research projects.
           A8.3.5.1.2. Publishing with cadets.
           A8.3.5.1.3. Research information to faculty for inclusion in course content
           A8.3.5.1.4. Presentations, distribution of published research to USAFA faculty.
A8.4. Portfolio of Credentials. Submit one (1) hard copy each (typically in a binder):
     A8.4.1. Evidence of continuing relevant, original intellectual activity since research
     promotion to Associate Professor-Research.
        A8.4.2.1. Provide selected examples of:
           A8.4.2.1.1. Journal articles published, books, scholarship studies.
           A8.4.2.1.2. Software produced and adopted outside of USAFA.
           A8.4.2.1.3. Other developed or published material.
