BY ORDER OF THE                                            HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 48-103

                                                                                 19 JUNE 2014

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                        REGISTRATION AND CONTROL OF
                                                                            ANIMALS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 AMDS/SGPM                                                    Certified by: 10 MDG/SGA
                                                                       (Col Bonnie E. Goodale)
                                                                                       Pages: 12


This instruction implements Armed Forces Joint Instruction (AFJI) 48-131, Veterinary Health
Services and Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, and
establishes responsibilities and procedures for controlling privately owned and stray animals on
the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA), to include the establishment and operation of
impoundment facilities. Animal owners who violate the provisions of this instruction are subject
to the forced removal of their pets from USAFA and may be held financially liable for all costs
incurred for failing to maintain control of their pets. This instruction applies to all personnel
assigned to or residing on USAFA. Additionally, it is applicable to Air Force Reserve Command
(AFRC) and the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to 10th Aerospace Medicine Squadron, Public Health (10 AMDS/SGPM), 2355
Faculty Drive, Suite 2N276, USAF Academy CO 80840, on Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. The authorities to waive requirements in this
publication are identified with a Tier (“T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3”). Submit requests for waivers
through the chain of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority. The waiver
authority for non-tiered requirements in this publication is 10 MDG/CC. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
(IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS).

This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 3013, Secretary of the Army; Department of
Defense (DoD) Directive 6015.5, Joint Use of Military Health and Medical Facilities and
Service; Army Regulation 40-905, Veterinary Health Services; and E.O. 9397 (Social Security
 2                                                               USAFAI48-103 19 JUNE 2014


Number (SSN)). The applicable Privacy Act SORN(s) AA0040-905 DASG is available at
http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/.

1. General overview: The health and welfare of the USAFA community requires the
establishment of an effective program for identification, disposition, care, and vaccination of
privately owned animals kept as pets. This instruction does not apply to the Military Working
Dog Program, the Academy’s Falconry Program, programs established for the purpose of official
education and research, or rodent, pest, wild animal or bird control. Individuals will report
incidents of offenses covered by this instruction through the 10th Security Forces Squadron (10
SFS) Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC) for appropriate action.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Installation Commander, 10th Air Base Wing (10 ABW/CC) will support and give
     command emphasis to programs designed to:
        2.1.1. Effectively prevent and control diseases and conditions of animals that are
        common to humans and to wild and domestic animals.
        2.1.2. Control and prevent animal diseases and conditions of environmental, community,
        or economic significance.
        2.1.3. Ensure humane care and use of animals.
        2.1.4. Promote the concept of responsible animal ownership as an integral element of
        health and well-being within the command.
        2.1.5. Establish policy for the control of privately owned and stray animals at large on
        USAFA property through capture, impoundment, disposal, or other physical means. If
        adequate military facilities are not available, the installation commander will arrange for
        off-installation facilities and animal’s owner will be responsible for any costs incurred.
     2.2. Commander, 10th Medical Group (10 MDG/CC) will ensure medical personnel assist as
     needed with any animal bite investigation.
        2.2.1. Health Care Providers (HCP) will examine victims of alleged animal bites and
        report findings on Department of Defense (DD) Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite –
        Potential Rabies Exposure, to Public Health.
        2.2.2. Public Health (PH) will report all animal bites for which there was a DD Form
        2341 filled out to the Installation Veterinarian. PH will report only animal bites that
        occurred on base to 10 SFS, BDOC at 333-2000.
     2.3. Commander, 10th Mission Support Group (10 MSG/CC) will ensure a contract
     agreement exists for the removal and handling of stray animals.
     2.4. Commander, 10th Security Forces Squadron (10 SFS/CC) will:
        2.4.1. Enforce the provisions of this instruction.
        2.4.2. Investigate reported incidents where persons or other animals are bitten or attacked
        by animals on the installation. If the investigation reveals that the animal belongs to a
        military member, BDOC will report findings to the member’s First Sergeant,
        Commander, and the 10 ABW/CC. If the investigation reveals that the animal belongs
USAFAI48-103 19 JUNE 2014                                                                      3


     to a service member or civilian who resides in base housing, BDOC will report the
     incident to Forest City Residential Management.
     2.4.3. Contact the member’s First Sergeant if the bite victim is a military member. If the
     bite victim is a civilian, 10 SFS will contact USAFA Judge Advocate (HQ USAFA/JA)
     for further guidance.
     2.4.4. Prepare a blotter entry.
  2.5. Commander, 10th Civil Engineer Squadron (10 CES/CC) will contract with an off-base
  service for the removal and disposal of any dead animals in non-housing areas of the
  installation. Disposal will be in accordance with applicable USAF, state, and local
  directives.
  2.6. Installation Veterinarian (designated U.S. Army Veterinarian) will:
     2.6.1. Provide necessary veterinary services to animals IAW AFJI 48-131. Services will
     include, but not be limited to: examinations, vaccinations, deworming, health
     certificates, and microchipping.
     2.6.2. Serve as the installation commander’s advisor on veterinary preventive medicine.
     2.6.3. Examine and treat diseases which may be transmissible to humans and conditions
     which may be a menace or problem in the military community.
     2.6.4. Assist 10 SFS or Forest City Residential Management with investigations where
     persons or other animals were bitten or attacked by animals on the installation when
     rabies is suspected.
     2.6.5. Investigate cases of alleged animal abuse, and report findings on a sworn
     statement as an attachment to the official complaint.
     2.6.6. Work with PH, 10 SFS, 10 CES, and representatives from Forest City Residential
     Management to develop an effective animal control program on the installation.
     2.6.7. If required, inspect stray animal holding cages to ensure that adequate sanitation is
     maintained and that captured animals are receiving humane treatment.
     2.6.8. Develop a local program for quarantine and observation of animals suspected of
     being infected with rabies or other diseases that may have detrimental effects on humans.
     Quarantine and disposition of biting animals will be in accordance with AFJI 48-131 and
     current public health organization recommendations.
     2.6.9. Coordinate with civilian public health officials on all matters pertaining to control
     of animal rabies and other diseases that are potentially transmissible to humans.
     2.6.10. Report to the 10 ABW/CC, 10 SFS/CC, and Forest City Residential Management
     those animals involved in any vicious bite incident or involved in two unprovoked biting
     incidents and recommend actions which will preclude the animal from becoming a
     nuisance in the future.
  2.7. Forest City Residential Management will:
     2.7.1. Reference their pet policy as stated in the Forest City Residential Management
     Community Handbook, Lease Agreement and Pet Addendum.
4                                                               USAFAI48-103 19 JUNE 2014


       2.7.2. Issue the appropriate letters to the owner of the animal. All disciplinary messages
       will be made through Forest City Residential Management. Ensure courtesy copies of all
       Pet Eviction notices are sent to the 10 ABW/CC and Installation Veterinarian.
       2.7.3. Forward the owner a letter stating when the animal will be removed, if an animal
       is being banned from the installation.
       2.7.4. Contract with an off-base service for the removal and disposal of any dead animals
       in the privatized housing areas. Disposal will be in accordance with applicable USAF,
       state, and local directives
    2.8. Residents of Privatized Housing with Privately Owned Animals on USAFA will:
       2.8.1. Reference the Forest City policies detailed in the Community Handbook, Lease
       Agreement, and Pet Addendum.
       2.8.2. Provide adequate food, water, shelter, care, and medical care for privately owned
       animals.
       2.8.3. Caged rodents, non-venomous reptiles, birds, and amphibians will be kept in their
       cages or under the control of the owner at all times. Any escape of caged rodents, non-
       venomous reptiles, birds or amphibians beyond the owner’s control shall be reported to
       Forest City Residential Management.
       2.8.4. Not house endangered or threatened species, primates, illegal foreign exotic pets,
       venomous reptiles or insects in privatized quarters.
       2.8.5. Not conduct any kennel type or animal breeding operation in privatized housing.
       The routine breeding or maintaining of pets as a business is not allowed.
       2.8.6. Transport their animals involved in bite incidents to the base veterinarian for
       examination and, if necessary, comply with quarantine procedures mandated by the
       veterinary services.
       2.8.7. Remove animal waste in privatized housing areas as needed to prevent sanitation,
       odor, and health problems.
       2.8.8. Ensure the proper disposal of their deceased animals. Privately owned animals
       will not be buried within the boundaries of the USAFA. Any animal dying of suspicious
       or unexplained causes, or suspected of harboring a zoonotic disease, may be subject to
       necropsy at the Veterinary Facility.
       2.8.9. Immediately claim their animals at any civilian impoundment facility upon
       notification of the detainment.
       2.8.10. Understand that failure to register their animals, stray impoundment of their
       animal, exceeding the maximum number of animals per quarters rule, participating in
       animal abuse or neglect, or any animal bite incidents may result in disciplinary actions
       from Forest City Residential Management appropriate to the situation.
       2.8.11. Pick up their animal’s medical record from the Veterinary Treatment Facility
       during out-processing.
USAFAI48-103 19 JUNE 2014                                                                     5


   2.9. Animals in other Base Areas (Non-Privatized Housing):
      2.9.1. Personnel residing in the Enlisted Dorms will reference the rules outlined in
      United States Air Force Academy Instruction (USAFAI) 32-6005, Unaccompanied
      Dormitory Policies/Instructions.
      2.9.2. Cadet Candidates residing in the Prep School Dorms and the Cadets residing in the
      dorms will reference their internal policies and regulations concerning animals.
      2.9.3. Personnel residing at Rampart Lodge and in the extended-stay facilities
      (Temporary Living Facilities) will reference the rules in Air Force Instruction (AFI) 34-
      246, Air Force Lodging Program and AFI 32-6001, Family Housing Management.
   2.10. General Rules for Animals on base (this applies to all personnel assigned to base and
   those residing in Privatized Housing):
      2.10.1. No one is allowed to bring animals into public facilities or 10th Medical Group.
      This does not include Military Working Dogs or service dogs used by handicapped
      individuals. If asked the individual must be able to show documentation stating the
      animal is a service dog.
      2.10.2. Animals are not allowed to run at large in the base housing area or other areas
      used by base personnel, including Falcon Trail, Santa Fe Trail and wooded areas. When
      exercising animals in these areas, the animals must be leashed at all times. Voice control
      is not considered an adequate form of restraint.
      2.10.3. Dogs are allowed in the water of public lakes/streams on USAFA, but they must
      not interfere with fishermen or disturb wildlife, especially waterfowl.
      2.10.4. Animal owners will not allow their dogs to harass wildlife.
      2.10.5. Animal owners will be responsible for damages and/or injuries caused by their
      animals IAW Colorado State Law. Pet owners are responsible for all appropriated costs
      incurred by the AF as a result of damage or cost incurred while dealing with offending
      animals.
3. Stray Animal Control Program:
   3.1. Domesticated stray animals that have been captured on base through a contracting
   service will be transported to the Humane Society for holding. The Humane Society will
   attempt to contact the owner if known. If the animal is suspected of being infected with
   rabies or other diseases communicable to humans, identified as inflicting injury to a human
   or otherwise requires quarantine, disposition will be according to the instructions of the
   installation veterinarian or other qualified medical personnel.
4. Nuisance Pets:
   4.1. Depending on the severity, when an animal on USAFA is: involved in a vicious bite
   incident which required the bite victim to seek (documented) medical attention, involved in
   unprovoked biting incidents, or allowed to roam the base, Forest City Residential
   Management may require the owner to remove the animal from the installation.
 6                                                                 USAFAI48-103 19 JUNE 2014


     4.2. Requests for permission to return the animals to the installation will be submitted, in
     writing, to Forest City Residential Management and include actions to preclude the animal
     from becoming a nuisance in the future.
     4.3. The pet owner assumes full responsibility and liability for personal injuries or damages.
     4.4. Residents will report nuisance pets to Forest City Residential Management.
5. Abandonment:
     5.1. Animal owners will not abandon their animals. In the event that a privately owned
     animal is no longer desired as a pet, the owner will attempt to place the animal for adoption
     at local shelters or animal rescue organizations.
6. Penalties: To ensure proper animal control and care, the following penalties may be
imposed:
     6.1. For all animals in privatized house, Forest City Residential Management Community
     Handbook, Lease Agreement, and Pet Addendum describes penalties for failure to register or
     comply with veterinary requirements, stray impoundment, animal bite incidents, exceeding
     the number of pets per family and animal abuse or neglect.
     6.2. Harassment of Wildlife: In accordance with Colorado Department of Wildlife statute
     33-6-128, subsections 2 and 3, any harassment of wildlife may result in the owner of the
     animal being charged with a misdemeanor and a fine. Also, the animal involved may be
     captured or killed by the wildlife manager if it is determined that the animal is harassing
     wildlife.
7. Equine Program:
     7.1. Prior to entering the installation, all horses must be vaccinated, tested, and treated for
     intestinal parasites in accordance with Attachment 2 of this instruction. Owners must present
     documents verifying compliance with these requirements to the Stable Manager within 10
     days of arrival on the installation. Owners can maintain a relationship with civilian
     veterinarian(s) for care of their horses as long as documentation can be provided showing
     compliance with Attachment 2 of this instruction.
     7.2. Any horse brought into the USAFA Riding Stable will be confined to the quarantine
     area. Horses will remain in quarantine until such time as they comply with the requirements
     in Attachment 2. If they are in compliance on entry, they are to be quarantined for a
     minimum of 10 days.
     7.3. Horses participating in events such as rodeos, trail rides, or other equestrian events will
     comply with the requirements in Attachment 2.
8. Reports:
     8.1. PH reports all animal bite incidents, including the number of patients treated with
     Human Rabies Immune Globulin (HRIG) monthly to the Aerospace Medicine Council
     (AMC).
     8.2. Annually, PH will prepare a report for the Population Health Function including animal
     bite incidence and the number of individuals who required rabies post-exposure prophylaxis.
USAFAI48-103 19 JUNE 2014                                                                  7


9. Information Collection/Records:
   9.1. Information Collection. The Installation Veterinarian in conjunction with Forest City
   Residential will construct a database of all privately and DoD-owned animals on USAFA.




                                          TIMOTHY D. BALLARD, Col, USAF
                                          Commander
 8                                                           USAFAI48-103 19 JUNE 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-6001, Family Housing Management, 21 August 2006
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 34-246, Air Force Lodging Program, 11 November 2007
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 23 August 2011
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medicine Enterprise, 19 October 2011
AFJI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, 29 August 2006
USAFAI 32-6005, Unaccompanied Dormitory Policies/Instructions, 26 November 2013
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite—Potential Rabies Exposure

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABW—Air Base Wing
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFJI—Armed Forces Joint Instruction
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AMC—Aerospace Medicine Council
ANG—Air National Guard
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
CC—Commander
CES—Civil Engineering Squadron
CO—Colorado
DD—Department of Defense
DoD—Department of Defense
HCP—Health Care Providers
HRIG—Human Rabies Immune Globulin
USAFAI48-103 19 JUNE 2014                                                                        9


HQ—Headquarters
HQ USAFA/JA—USAFA Judge Advocate
IAW—In Accordance With
MDG—Medical Group
MSG—Mission Support Group
PH—Public Health
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SSN—Social Security Number
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI—United States Air Force Academy Instruction

Terms
Abuse and Cruelty—The failure to provide proper food, water, shelter, medical care and
protection for an animal, or to willfully cause pain or distress to an animal.
Disposition—Final actions taken with an animal (for example, returned to owner, released from
home quarantine, made available for adoption, animal removed from installation, or release to
proper authority for euthanasia.)
Exotic Pet—Any wild or domesticated animal or bird, which is not normally identified as a
household pet. Examples include but are not limited to: wolves, wolf hybrids, falcons, ferrets,
pot-bellied pigs, monkeys, raccoons, and skunks.
Impoundment—Confinement or release to a designated impoundment facility so that positive
control is maintained.
Nuisance Pet—Any animal whose actions (biting, running loose, excessive barking, digging,
harassing wildlife, or urinating and defecating within public or living areas) are offensive to the
community.
Privately Owned Animal—Any domesticated animal as defined by US Army/Civilian
Veterinary Services and the American Veterinary Medical Association which is maintained by a
household as a household pet or maintained at the USAFA Riding Stable.
Proper Control—Restraint of the animal either by leash, pen, cage, or fenced enclosure.
Quarantine—Enforced isolation or restriction of free movement imposed to prevent the spread
of contagious disease. Quarantine consists of a 10-day observation period with examination of
the animal at the beginning and at the end of quarantine.
 10                                                               USAFAI48-103 19 JUNE 2014


Rabies Suspect—Any warm-blooded animal that has bitten a person is considered a rabies
suspect.
Small Caged Reptiles or Amphibians—Any turtles/tortoises, frogs, snakes, or lizards that are
of sufficiently small size to fit in an enclosed glass cage.
Stray—Any animal that is unattended and free roaming is considered a stray animal. Animals
that are not on a leash but under positive voice control of its owner and are not posing a threat of
becoming a nuisance will not be considered as being a stray.
Unprovoked Bite—An animal bite wound inflicted by an animal upon a human, or another
animal, for which there was no apparent inciting or stimulating action toward the animal on the
part of the person bitten.
Venomous Reptile or Insect—Any reptile or insect capable of producing and delivering a toxic
substance to a human or other animal.
Vicious Bite—Any provoked or unprovoked animal bite resulting in serious injury to a human or
another animal.
USAFAI48-103 19 JUNE 2014                                                                      11


                                         Attachment 2
        PREVENTIVE MEDICINE AND ANIMAL HEALTH REQUIREMENTS

A2.1. Minimum Veterinary Public Health Requirements. The following requirements will
be reviewed periodically by the installation veterinarian and may be modified in accordance with
his or her professional judgment.
A2.2. Dogs:
   A2.2.1. Rabies vaccination between 3 and 4 months of age. Subsequent boosters given as
   recommended by the vaccine manufacturer (annually or triennially).
   A2.2.2. Canine distemper vaccination series as puppies and based on vaccine manufacturer
   recommendations thereafter.
   A2.2.3. Canine parvovirus vaccination series as puppies and based on vaccine manufacturer
   recommendations thereafter.
   A2.2.4. Canine Adenovirus Type 2 vaccination series as puppies and based on vaccine
   manufacturer recommendations thereafter.
   A2.2.5. Examination and (or) treatment for intestinal parasites annually.
   A2.2.6. Qualification for the vaccinations series will be as follows: first vaccine to be given
   every 3-4 weeks between the ages of 6-16 weeks with the last dose being given between 14-
   16 weeks. Dogs over 16 weeks of age should receive a single dose. Annual booster after
   initial puppy series complete, then triennially thereafter.
A2.3. Cats:
   A2.3.1. Rabies vaccination between 3 and 4 months of age. Subsequent boosters given as
   recommended by the vaccine manufacturer (annually or triennially).
   A2.3.2. Feline Herpesvirus-1 (feline viral rhinotracheitis) vaccination series as kittens and
   based on vaccine manufacturer recommendations thereafter.
   A2.3.3. Feline calicivirus vaccination series as kittens and based on vaccine manufacturer
   recommendations thereafter.
   A2.3.4. Feline Parvovirus (feline panleukopenia) vaccination series as kittens and based on
   vaccine manufacturer recommendations thereafter.
   A2.3.5. Examination and/or treatment for intestinal parasites annually.
   A2.3.6. Qualification for the vaccinations series will be as follows: initial vaccination can
   be given as early as 6 weeks of age with booster every 3-4 weeks until 16 weeks. Cats over
   12 weeks of age should initially receive 2 doses 3-4 weeks apart. Annual booster after initial
   kitten series complete, then triennially thereafter.
A2.4. Horses:
   A2.4.1. West Nile, Rabies, Eastern and Western equine encephalomyelitis vaccinations
   annually.
   A2.4.2. Equine rhinopneumonitis vaccination semiannually.
12                                                             USAFAI48-103 19 JUNE 2014


  A2.4.3. Equine influenza vaccination semiannually.
  A2.4.4. Tetanus toxoid annually.
  A2.4.5. Treatment for intestinal parasites at 6-month intervals.
  A2.4.6. Negative Coggins test within 6 months prior to arrival and annually thereafter.
  A2.4.7. Quarantine upon arrival at USAFA for a minimum of 10 days in a designated area if
  proper vaccination, deworming and Coggins requirements are met, or until such time that the
  horse is in compliance with health requirements and still within a minimum of 10 days.
  A2.4.8. Foals will be immunized between 3 and 4 months of age, then receive a booster 1 to
  2 months later, and then follow the immunization protocol above.
