BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3521

                                                                                21 MARCH 2012

                                                                                       Personnel

                                                 CADET EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
                                                                        PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/CWTM                                                       Certified by: USAFA/CWT
                                                                          (Col Michael A. Pipan)
Supersedes:    USAFAI36-3521,                                                          Pages: 23
               26 November 2008


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy. This instruction authorizes the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Program in the Air
Force Academy Cadet Wing and establishes the responsibilities and procedures for
administration, operation, and control. This instruction contains specific guidance for forming
organized activities and applies to all staff agencies, units, and organizations on the USAF
Academy that are responsible for governing any cadet activity. This publication does not apply
to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer
recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to USAFA/CWVV,
2360 Fairchild Dr, Suite 6A44F, USAF Academy, Colorado 80840, on Air Force (AF) Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
updates office symbols; revises Cadet Extracurricular Activities Board (CEAB) procedures
(paragraph 3.2.); revises mission partner responsibilities (paragraph 3.4.); revises Categories of
Clubs (paragraph 4.); revises Cadet Mentor responsibilities (paragraph 7.1.); revises probation
 2                                                                                           USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012


eligibility (paragraph 12.2.); revises Limited-on-Season (LOS) Status (paragraph 16.1.2.); revises
types of funding (paragraph 17.).

Section A—Organization                                                                                                                              2
       1.      Purpose: .................................................................................................................           2
       2.      Organization. ..........................................................................................................             3
       3.      Responsibilities. .....................................................................................................              3
Table 1.       CEAB Voting and Non-Voting Advisors. .............................................................                                   4
       4.      Categories of Official Cadet Clubs. .......................................................................                          5
Table 2.       Advocacy for Official Cadet Clubs. .......................................................................                           5
       5.      Informal Activities. ................................................................................................                6
       6.      Supervision and Control. .......................................................................................                     6

Section B—Vetting and Oversight                                                                                                                     6
       7.      Vetting Process. .....................................................................................................               6
Figure 1.      Requirements for Cadet Clubs OICs, AOICs, NCOICs, Coaches and Volunteers.
               .................................................................................................................................    7
       8.      Establishing an Official Cadet Club or Formalizing an Informal Activity. ...........                                                 9
       9.      Changes in Category. .............................................................................................                  10
       10.     Inactive, Probation, Suspension, and Dissolution of Clubs. ..................................                                       11

Section C—Procedures                                                                                                                               12
       11.     Scheduling and Excusals. .......................................................................................                    12
       12.     Eligibility. ..............................................................................................................         12
       13.     Uniform Requirements. .........................................................................................                     13
       14.     Alcohol Consumption. ...........................................................................................                    14
       15.     Travel. ....................................................................................................................        14
       16.     Supporting Organizations. .....................................................................................                     15
       17.     Types of Funding. ..................................................................................................                19
Figure 2.      Official Cadet Clubs Sources of Funding. .............................................................                              19

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                     21


Section A—Organization

1. Purpose: The Cadet Extracurricular Activities Program exists to provide supervised outlets
for cadet interests not available in the formal Academy academic, athletic or military training
USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012                                                                      3


curricula. Cadet Extracurricular Activities enhance cadet professional development; provide
opportunities to practice academic, athletic, military and personal skills necessary to produce
officers of character; provide cadets hands-on leadership opportunities alongside Air Force
officers, in addition to opportunities to manage personnel and financial resources and learn
administrative and logistics skills. Cadet Extracurricular Activities also provide morale and
welfare opportunities, encourage lifetime participation in recreational and service activities and
teach wise use of leisure time. Cadet Extracurricular Activities include, but are not limited to,
meetings, practices, competitions, rehearsals, performances, seminars, lectures, films, tours,
social events, etc.
2. Organization. Cadet Extracurricular Activities are divided into two categories: Official
Cadet Clubs and Informal Activities.
   2.1. Official Cadet Clubs. Official Cadet Clubs are Athletic, Recreational and Mission
   activities that are not found in the formal Academy academic, athletic or military training
   curricula and which fall under Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office administration and
   Cadet Extracurricular Activities Board (CEAB) oversight. Official Cadet Clubs are required
   to have an Officer in Charge (OIC) and may have Assistant Officers in Charge (AOIC), Non-
   Commissioned Officers in Charge (NCOIC), Coaches and Volunteers, working with cadets
   in support of club activities. All non-cadets associated with Cadet Clubs must be vetted by
   the CEAB. Official Cadet Clubs may receive funding from various sources and are allowed
   to represent the Academy in an official capacity (see paragraph 8.2. below for a complete
   breakdown of Official Cadet Club privileges).
   2.2. Informal Activities. Informal Activities are all other cadet activities that are not found
   in the formal Academy academic, athletic or military training curricula or administered by
   the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office. Informal Activities are still subject to CEAB
   oversight and all guidance in this instruction. Informal Activities are typically led by cadets,
   have no funding, and are not authorized to represent the Academy in any capacity.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. Commandant. The Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW), through the Vice
   Commandant (USAFA/CWV), the Director of Training Support (USAFA/CWT), the CEAB,
   and the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office (USAFA/CWTM), administers the Cadet
   Extracurricular Activities Program (hereafter referred to as Official Cadet Clubs or just
   Clubs) and oversees policy and guidance for all organized cadet activities outside Academy
   academic, athletic and military training curriculum. The Commandant ensures all cadet
   activities on USAFA have proper oversight and that all non-cadets associated with cadet
   activities are properly vetted.
   3.2. Cadet Extracurricular Activities Board (CEAB). The CEAB is the governing body
   that reviews all organized cadet activities outside Academy academic, athletic and military
   training curriculum to determine appropriate oversight and is the decision authority for the
   approval of new clubs and the dissolution or suspension of existing clubs. The CEAB also
   approves all non-cadets associated with organized cadet activities, whether official Cadet
   Clubs or not, and is the approval authority for all LOS status. The CEAB considers USAFA
   need versus cadet demand and determines if activities are consistent with the USAFA
   mission. The CEAB meets monthly and is comprised of the following voting and non-voting
   advisors in Table 1. below:
 4                                                            USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012


Table 1. CEAB Voting and Non-Voting Advisors.
VOTING                 NON-VOTING ADVISORS
USAFA/CWT              10 FSS/FSR (NAF)
USAFA/ADPL             USAFA/CMA (ENDOWMENT FUNDS)
USAFA/DF *             USAFA/CWVF (APF)
10 ABW/CC *            USAFA/CWTM (SUPPORT)
306 FTG/ALO            USAFA/CWTS (SCHEDULING)
                       USAAFA/CWTT (TRAINING)
                       USAFA/JA (LEGAL)
* Commanders may designate representatives from their organization
        3.2.1. CEAB Chair (CWT). The CEAB Chair is a Colonel who is the single point of
        contact in charge of the Commandant’s Cadet Extracurricular Activities Program for all
        organized cadet activities. The CEAB Chair ensures the CEAB properly oversees all
        Cadet Clubs, vets all non-cadets associated with organized cadet activities for the
        Academy and reports directly to the Commandant regarding any activity that is not in
        compliance with established USAFA instructions.
        3.2.2. CEAB Vice-Chair (ADP). The CEAB Vice-Chair is responsible for overseeing
        the CEAB in the CEAB Chair’s absence.
     3.3. Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office. The Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office
     has administrative responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the Cadet Extracurricular
     Activities Program.
     3.4. Mission Partners (MP). MPs are responsible for timely coordination on Official Cadet
     Clubs’ requests that fall under their mission areas prior to requests being submitted to the
     Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office and the CEAB. MPs assign Liaison Officers.
     3.5. MP Liaison Officers. Liaison Officers are advocates for Clubs that fall under their MP
     purview and advise the CEAB on matters regarding those Clubs.
     3.6. OICs, AOICs and NCOICs. OICs are responsible for day-to-day operations of
     individual Clubs. They are assisted by AOICs, NCOICs and Cadets in Charge (CICs).
     AOICs and NCOICs are considered equivalent to OICs for the remainder of this instruction.
     OICs report to the Commandant of Cadets when performing Club OIC duties.
     3.7. Coaches. Coaches provide Clubs support by helping cadets achieve a specific personal
     or professional result through training, instruction, mentoring, etc. Coaches operate under
     the direct supervision of the Club OIC and are responsible for complying with this instruction
     and all USAFA instructions.
     3.8. Volunteers. Volunteers are all other non-cadets who interact with cadets in Clubs.
     They provide a variety of services to cadets in Clubs, to include, but not limited to coaching,
     but receive no compensation from the government other than travel reimbursement, upon
     request from the Club OIC. Volunteers operate under direct supervision of the Club OIC and
     are responsible for complying with this instruction and all USAFA instructions.
     3.9. Cadets in Charge (CIC). The CIC is appointed or elected to the highest cadet office in
     an Official Club and is responsible to the Club OIC for the supervision, management, and
     conduct of all activities during meetings, practices, and rehearsals. They are responsible for
USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012                                                                  5


   complying with AFCWMAN 36-3501, The Cadet Sight Picture, and all other USAFA
   instructions. CICs may petition for credit via USAFA Form 94, Cadet Evaluation for the
   Board Order of Merit (BOM) Board, for holding leadership positions in the Cadet Clubs
   program.
   3.10. Cadets. Each organized Cadet Club provides practical experience through actual
   participation by cadet members. Cadets are encouraged to participate and benefit from these
   activities; however, cadets are responsible for making sure they do not over-commit
   themselves. They are responsible for participating in any Club that they join while still
   observing the Schedule of Calls. Education, training, and duty requirements take precedence
   over participation in these activities unless otherwise approved by the Scheduling
   Committee. They are responsible to the OIC when participating in Club events as well as to
   AFCWMAN 36-3501, The Cadet Sight Picture and all other USAFA instructions.
4. Categories of Official Cadet Clubs. There are three major Cadet Club categories: Sports
Clubs, Recreational Clubs, and Mission Clubs. Mission Clubs are further divided into three sub-
categories: Academic/Professional, Affinity/Culture, and Support. Advocacy for each category
is as indicated in Table 2. below.

Table 2. Advocacy for Official Cadet Clubs.
 AD                CW                                  DF
 Sports Clubs      CWT Recreational                    Mission-Academic/Professional
                   CWT Mission – Support
                   CWP Mission - Affinity/Culture
   4.1. Sports Clubs. These activities represent the Air Force Academy in athletic competition
   with other universities or clubs with the purpose of enhancing the image of the Air Force
   Academy. To become a Sports Club, the activity must show 3 years of established
   competitive operations under a national governing organization. The activity must also be
   athletically rigorous and must clearly justify the need to train and compete as a team. The
   activity must hold a nationally sanctioned Regional/National Championship and entry into
   the championship must be earned through progressive competition (i.e., through
   league/conference play, etc.). The activity cannot duplicate a current USAFA varsity sport
   without Athletic Department approval. Sports Clubs on LOS status must practice and
   compete with a qualified coach or OIC present at all times. If they cannot be present on a
   regular basis, the club will be placed on inactive status and reviewed by the CEAB for
   permanent LOS suspension. The CEAB has overall oversight of Sports Clubs and
   responsibility for Sports Clubs operations and management of funds. Sports Clubs will
   comply with all CEAB and Commandant directives, this instruction and all USAFA
   instructions unless granted exception by the CEAB on decisions within the CEAB’s
   authority.
   4.2. Recreational Clubs. These activities are organized primarily as morale, welfare and
   recreation outlets for cadets. Recreational Clubs are considered desirable to the military
   community and make major contributions to mission accomplishment, resiliency and
   personnel recruitment and retention IAW AFI 34-201 Use of Nonappropriated Funds
   (NAFs). The CEAB has overall oversight of Recreational Clubs and responsibility for
   Recreational Clubs operations and management of funds. Recreational Clubs will comply
 6                                                           USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012


     with all CEAB and Commandant Directives, this instruction and all USAFA instructions
     unless granted exception by the CEAB on decisions within the CEAB’s authority.
     4.3. Mission Clubs. These activities represent the Academy by interacting with the public
     either through individual cadets or as a club. Mission Clubs are further divided into
     Academic/Professional, Affinity/Culture and Support sub-categories. The CEAB has overall
     oversight for Mission Clubs and management of Mission Clubs’ funds; however, applicable
     MPs have responsibility for operation and supplemental funding of Mission Clubs. Mission
     Clubs will comply with all CEAB and Commandant directives, this instruction and all
     USAFA instructions unless granted exception by the CEAB on decisions within the CEAB’s
     authority.
        4.3.1. Academic/Professional. These clubs promote interest in specialized areas that
        support or further enhance existing Academy academic curriculum.
        4.3.2. Affinity/Culture. These clubs foster diversity and enhance understanding of
        different cultures.
        4.3.3. Support. These clubs directly support or enhance the Air Force Academy
        mission.
     4.4. Airmanship Teams. These clubs (USAFA Flying Team, USAFA Soaring Team, and
     Wings of Blue Parachuting Team) operate under the 306 FTG. The 306 FTG Commander
     (306 FTG/CC) is responsible for oversight and guidance for these clubs. The 306 FTG/CC
     ensures all cadet activities have proper oversight and all non-cadet personnel associated with
     club activities are properly vetted.
5. Informal Activities. These activities have no formal affiliation with the Academy except
that Academy cadets participate in them. They are not officially sanctioned activities and as
such are not permitted to represent the Academy. The CEAB has overall oversight of Informal
Activities and responsibility for ensuring they comply with established USAFA Instructions.
Additionally, the CEAB is the lead organization for determining if Informal Activities should be
formalized or authorized independent operation. Informal Activities will comply with all CEAB
and Commandant directives, this instruction and all USAFA instructions unless granted
exception by the CEAB on decisions within the CEAB’s authority.
6. Supervision and Control.
     6.1. CEAB Operating Procedures. The CEAB is chaired by USAFA/CWT and consists of
     voting members and non-voting advisors, including representatives from all MPs.
        6.1.1. Mission Partners may establish policy and guidance for their respective activities
        in addition to any guidance in this instruction.
        6.1.2. Financial issues for all official cadet activities will be staffed through the CEAB
        and the applicable Mission Partners as required.

Section B—Vetting and Oversight

7. Vetting Process.
USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012                                                                   7


   7.1. Minimum Requirements (Matrix). All non-cadets associated with official cadet
   activities must meet the minimum requirements in the matrix below (Figure 1.). Additional
   requirements may be levied as needed and are shown as an example below:

Figure 1. Requirements for Cadet Clubs OICs, AOICs, NCOICs, Coaches and Volunteers.




      7.1.1. Annual Training: Prior to interacting with cadets and on an annual basis afterward,
      all non-cadets will receive training by the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office staff.
      Training focuses upon the unique aspects of cadet clubs (cadet interaction, funding,
      instructions and directives, etc.).
      7.1.2. Signed Memorandum of Agreement (MOA): Prior to interacting with cadets, all
      non-cadets will sign a MOA that outlines their responsibilities. This will be
      accomplished on an annual basis, usually in conjunction with annual training, and be kept
      on file in the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office.
      7.1.3. Approval Authority: Prior to interacting with cadets, all non-cadets will be
      approved by the CEAB. Eligibility requirements for the different levels of responsibility
      can be found in paragraphs 7.2.-7.4.
      7.1.4. Sexual Assault Response Coordinator (SARC) Training: Prior to interacting with
      cadets, all non-cadets will receive training on sexual assault awareness and prevention
      that is specifically tailored for cadet extracurricular activities. This will occur on an
      annual basis, usually in conjunction with Annual Training.
      7.1.5. Security Forces Screening for Proximity Card Holders: Any personnel requiring
      Cadet Area access who do not possess a proximity access card will submit either a
      USAFA Form 105, Application for Temporary Proximity Access Card, or a USAFA
      Form 106, Application for Proximity Access Card, IAW USAFAI 31-105, Vehicle Access
      Puck/Proximity Access Card Issue and Control. Background checks will be conducted
      IAW USAFAI 31-105.
   7.2. OICs, AOICs and NCOICs. Every club must have an Officer in Charge in order to be
   a functioning club in good standing. Additional AOICs and NCOICs are allowed but not
   required.
8                                                            USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012


       7.2.1. Specific Requirements. Anyone desiring to be an OIC must meet the following
       specific requirements beyond the minimum requirements stated in paragraph 7.1. above.
           7.2.1.1. OICs must be affiliated with the Academy. They may be from any
           organization on the Academy, but report to the Commandant of Cadets (through the
           CEAB) when performing club OIC duties and will comply with all CEAB and Cadet
           Wing directives.
           7.2.1.2. OICs can be officers, enlisted or government civilians, but not contractors.
           7.2.1.3. OICs must be O-3, E-7 or GS-9 and above (or equivalents).
           7.2.1.4. OICs of activities which own or operate machinery must be formally trained
           IAW AFOSH Standard 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety
           Standard.
       7.2.2. Nomination Process. Anyone desiring to become an OIC must submit an AF
       Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, to USAFA/CWTM, prior to obtaining CEAB approval.
       A sample SSS can be obtained from the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office. The
       CEAB is the final approval authority for all OIC nominations.
       7.2.3. Selection. With the exception of designated mission activities (Drum & Bugle
       Corps, Honor Guard, etc.), the position of OIC is voluntary, but once selected, becomes
       an additional duty. Upon selection, OICs must comply with the requirements listed in
       paragraph 7.1. of this instruction.
    7.3. Coaches. Any club may have one or more coaches but it is not a requirement.
       7.3.1. Specific Requirements. Anyone desiring to be a coach must meet the following
       specific requirements beyond the minimum requirements stated in paragraph 7.1. above:
           7.3.1.1. All coaches who are not associated with USAFA must fill out and sign a DD
           Form 2793, Volunteer Agreement.
           7.3.1.2. Any coach who will be paid for services must also be on a NAF Individual
           Services Contract, present verifiable credentials that they are certified to coach in the
           selected activity and show proof of insurance.
           7.3.1.3. Coaches (contracted or not) may receive reimbursement for travel expenses
           (from a club’s budget) at their OIC’s discretion.
           7.3.1.4. Coaches may never substitute for the OIC, unless they also meet all
           requirements to be an OIC (listed in paragraphs 7.1. and 7.2. above) and receive
           CEAB approval to do so.
       7.3.2. Nomination Process. Clubs desiring coaches must submit all appropriate forms
       to the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office prior to obtaining CEAB approval. Forms
       must be submitted by the OIC, formally requesting the addition of a coach and may not
       come from the coach directly. The CEAB is the final approval authority for all coach
       requests.
           7.3.2.1. In the case of paid coaches, the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office will
           verify that the cost of the contract is within the Club’s approved budget and
           remaining funds before forwarding to the CEAB. CEAB approval of a contract does
USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012                                                                 9


          not permit OICs to start a contract. The CEAB cannot obligate government money;
          only the contracting officer can. Once the CEAB approves the contract, the Cadet
          Extracurricular Activities Office will forward the contract documents to the NAF
          contracting officer for formal processing and official letting of the contract.
       7.3.3. Selection. Upon selection, coaches must comply with all previously outlined
       requirements. Paid coaches may not begin work until after they sign a contract with the
       NAF contracting officer. They may volunteer their time, but will not be paid for any
       services rendered prior to signing their contract with the NAF office. Coaches report
       directly to their Club OIC.
   7.4. Volunteers. Clubs may have one or more volunteers but it is not a requirement.
       7.4.1. Additional Requirements. Anyone desiring to be a volunteer must meet the
       following additional requirements beyond the minimum requirements stated in paragraph
       7.1. above:
          7.4.1.1. All volunteers who are not associated with USAFA must fill out and sign a
          DD Form 2793, Volunteer Agreement.
          7.4.1.2. Volunteers may not receive compensation for their time spent working with
          extracurricular activities (other than that authorized by the USAFA Volunteer
          Program Coordinator).
          7.4.1.3. Volunteers may be reimbursed for travel expenses (from a club’s budget) at
          their OIC’s discretion.
          7.4.1.4. Volunteers may never substitute for the OIC, unless they also meet all
          requirements to be an OIC (as stated in paragraphs 7.1. and 7.2. above) and receive
          CEAB approval to do so.
       7.4.2. Nomination Process. Clubs desiring volunteers must submit all appropriate
       forms to the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office prior to obtaining CEAB approval.
       Forms must be submitted by the Club OIC, formally requesting the addition of a
       volunteer and may not come from the volunteer directly. The CEAB is the final approval
       authority for all volunteer requests.
       7.4.3. Selection. Upon selection, volunteers must comply with all previously outlined
       requirements. Volunteers report directly to their Club OIC.
8. Establishing an Official Cadet Club or Formalizing an Informal Activity. To establish a
club or formalize an activity, the proposed CIC must first coordinate with an Academy
permanent party member who qualifies as a future OIC (see paragraphs 7.1. and 7.2.) for the
proposed club. These two individuals then develop a petition requesting permission to formally
organize the activity into a club. The package is staffed through the Cadet Extracurricular
Activities Office and the CEAB for final approval.
   8.1. Required Documentation. The petition consists of the documentation required to gain
   CEAB approval prior to granting the activity Official Club status. Listed below are the
   mandatory items that must be submitted. Sample packages are available from the Cadet
   Clubs Extracurricular Activities Office.
       8.1.1. AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet.
 10                                                         USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012


      8.1.2. Proposed schedule, including games, events or activities, both home and away.
      8.1.3. Estimated budget requirements, including travel, equipment and supplies.
      8.1.4. List of prospective members (and CIC), including name, class and squadron.
      8.1.5. Club Charter detailing club-specific goals, rules, and objectives.
      8.1.6. Completed OIC nomination SSS. All Clubs must have at least one CEAB
      approved OIC at all times. The CEAB will not formalize an activity without an
      associated OIC approval.
      8.1.7. Any additional information that further substantiates the request.
   8.2. Official Cadet Club Benefits and Incentives to Formalize Informal
   Activities. There are many cadet activities that occur on USAFA; however, only Official
   Cadet Clubs will be allowed the benefit of the following incentives:
      8.2.1. Funding. Only Official Cadet Clubs will be considered for potential funding, in
      addition to an authorized dues collection process.
      8.2.2. Participation in Blue Rush (Club Day). Only Official Cadet Clubs are authorized
      to participate in USAFA Club Day, which is the single best recruiting forum for club
      activities.
      8.2.3. Official Representation of USAFA. Only Official Cadet Clubs are authorized to
      represent the Academy as a sanctioned club, both in or out of uniform. This includes
      permission to compete with other colleges, both at home and away.
      8.2.4. Scheduling of Major Facilities. Only Official Cadet Clubs are authorized
      scheduled use of selected facilities on USAFA and have priority over other unofficial
      activities.
      8.2.5. Access to Scheduling Committee Actions (SCAs). Only Official Cadet Clubs are
      authorized access to group SCAs to regularly meet for practice, competitions, travel away
      from USAFA or to otherwise miss formal Academy training events to participate in club
      activities. SCAs are fully explained in paragraph 12. below.
      8.2.6. Limited-on-Season (LOS) Status. Only Official Cadet Clubs (Sports and Mission)
      are authorized LOS slots for missing Intramurals. This helps with preparing for club
      activities and assists with team cohesiveness. LOS is fully explained in paragraph 16.1.2.
      below.
      8.2.7. An Advocate in CW and the Respective Mission Partner. Only Official Cadet
      Clubs have permanent party advocates in the MPs, to include the Cadet Extracurricular
      Activities Office, and the CEAB, to assist with club activities and needs.
   8.3. Consulting with the Appropriate MP. Before an activity can become an Official
   Club, a determination must be made regarding what category the club will be (see paragraph
   4.). Prospective OICs and CICs must attain coordination from the appropriate MP before the
   CEAB will approve a package to formalize a new club.
9. Changes in Category. In order for a club to change club category (for example, from
Recreational to Sports or Mission-Support) the OIC must develop a petition requesting
USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012                                                                   11


permission to formally re-categorize the club. The package is staffed through the Cadet
Extracurricular Activities Office to the CEAB for final approval.
   9.1. Required Documentation. The petition consists of the documentation required to gain
   CEAB approval, prior to granting the activity formal category change.
       9.1.1. AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet.
       9.1.2. Proposed schedule, including events or activities, both home and away.
       9.1.3. Estimated budget requirements, including travel, equipment and supplies.
       9.1.4. List of prospective members (and CIC), including name, class and squadron.
       9.1.5. Updated Club Charter, reflecting the new category.
       9.1.6. Any additional information that further substantiates the request.
10. Inactive, Probation, Suspension, and Dissolution of Clubs. One or more of the following
reasons normally must be cited and substantiated as cause for placing a club on inactive status,
probation, suspending or dissolving a club: failure to comply with instructions or directives;
mismanagement of funds or equipment; demonstrated lack of cadet interest in the activity;
inability to secure the services of an OIC within 60 days; or unsatisfactory conduct.
   10.1. Mandatory Appointment of OICs. All clubs must have at least one OIC at all times
   who is approved by the CEAB (or 306 FTG/CC for Airmanship teams). A club that does not
   have an approved OIC will be placed in inactive status for up to 60 consecutive days until an
   OIC can be found and approved by the CEAB. The club is prohibited from all activity until
   an OIC is found and approved by the CEAB. After 60 consecutive days, the CEAB may
   suspend or dissolve the club if no OIC is found.
   10.2. The CEAB may place a club on probation or revoke LOS status when it is apparent the
   club is not achieving the purpose for which it was established or has violated USAFA
   standards. The probationary period should not exceed 6 months (excluding summer) during
   which the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office will monitor the club's progress.
   Suspension or dissolution action may be initiated if progress is unsatisfactory. The CEAB
   considers removal from probation if progress is satisfactory. The CEAB is the final authority
   for determining a club’s probationary status.
   10.3. The CEAB may suspend a club and revoke LOS status when a club has had no OIC for
   60 days or when it is apparent the club has not shown satisfactory progress during a
   probationary period or has repeated probations or has violated USAFA standards. The
   suspension period should be for a minimum of one academic semester, during which the club
   is prohibited from all activity until the suspension is removed. Dissolution action may be
   initiated if the club violates suspension. The CEAB may reinstate the club with full club
   status or in a probationary status when satisfied that the reason for the suspension no longer
   exists or the suspension has run out. The CEAB is the final authority for determining a
   club’s suspension status.
   10.4. The CEAB may recommend dissolution of a club to the Commandant when a club has
   had no OIC for 60 consecutive days; the club has violated a suspension; has repeat
   probations/suspensions or has violated USAFA standards in a particularly egregious manner.
   Upon dissolution, all property and records must be turned in to the Cadet Extracurricular
 12                                                          USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012


   Activities Office. If dissolved, a club may not be reestablished for at least one academic
   year. To petition for reinstatement, the club must provide the CEAB with a complete
   package as outlined in paragraph 8.1. above. The Commandant is the final authority for club
   dissolution and reinstatement.

Section C—Procedures

11. Scheduling and Excusals.
   11.1. Scheduling Committee Action (SCA). Club OICs must submit excusal requests
   through the Cadet Administrative Management Information System (CAMIS) for travel
   and/or events outside the Schedule of Calls (SOC) to be approved by the Scheduling
   Committee.
       11.1.1. The SCAs for 306 FTG Airmanship teams are submitted through the appropriate
       squadron to the 306 FTG Registrar (306 FTG/OSTR) for approval by the Scheduling
       Committee.
   11.2. Procedures. The Scheduling Committee reviews all cadet excusals or events, even
   those occurring during off-duty time. An SCA must be submitted if a club activity or event
   conflicts with any previously scheduled formal Academy training or occurs outside the Cadet
   Area. SCAs should be submitted no later than 2 weeks prior to needed excusals.
   11.3. Club OICs submit excusals electronically through the Cadet Excusal System. A
   USAFA Form 17, Request for USAFA Scheduling Committee Action, and Club/Activity
   Schedule, with Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office coordination, must arrive in
   USAFA/CWTS at least 14 calendar days prior to the requested excusal date. Club OICs shall
   submit their club’s full season schedule and names of all cadets participating.
   11.4. Club OICs will ensure that cadets on any form of probation are not included in SCAs.
   11.5. Club OICs will ensure that cadets observe all Scheduling Committee restrictions and
   obtain approval/coordination per the SCA from their instructors and/or AOCs prior to
   missing classes or other formal Academy training.
12. Eligibility. Official Cadet Clubs will be comprised of Air Force Academy cadets only (to
include exchange program cadets). No Prep School or Active Duty members will participate in
Official Cadet Clubs, except as OIC, AOIC, NCOIC, Coach or Volunteer. Any cadet may join
an Official Club provided they meet the eligibility criteria of that activity and are not otherwise
ineligible due to academic, athletic, conduct, aptitude or honor probation. Eligible cadets who
are interested in participating in a club should contact the club OIC or CIC for information about
joining the club. The Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office maintains a roster of all Official
Club OICs.
   12.1. Limitations - Fourth-Class Cadets. Fourth-class cadets may not take trips until after
   fall mid-semester progress reports are published. Exception: with SCA approval, fourth-
   class cadets in authorized Mission Clubs are permitted limited travel prior to the release of
   mid-semester grades.
   12.2. Probation. In the absence of guidance from the AOC, Group AOC, CWV, CW, ARC
   or PERC Chair (as applicable) (see paragraph 12.3.), cadets on probation will be restricted
   from participation in club activities as follows:
USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012                                                                     13


      12.2.1. Cadets on any type of probation will not be eligible for club SCAs and will not
      be excused from any official Academy training event to participate in a club activity.
      12.2.2. Cadets on any type of probation will not receive Limited-on-Season (LOS)
      status.
      12.2.3. Cadets on any type of probation will not travel off USAFA for Club activities.
      12.2.4. Cadets on any type of probation will not participate in any scheduled event
      (game, show, mission activity, etc.) other than practice, as long as practice doesn’t violate
      other probationary requirements such as Intramurals, Reconditioning, etc.
      12.2.5. Cadets on any type of probation will participate in Intramurals and
      Reconditioning as required.
      12.2.6. Cadets on any type of probation will not be refunded any dues; however, they
      will regain full membership benefits once they are off probation.
   12.3. Cadet Status. Cadets on probation may retain membership in clubs but are subject to
   the following guidelines for participation in club activities:
      12.3.1. Academic Probation. The Academic Review Committee (ARC) Chair may be
      more restrictive and can restrict a cadet from club activities regardless of Grade Point
      Average (GPA). A waiver to participate in scheduled events (games, shows, mission
      activities, etc.) other than practice must be submitted through AOC/Group
      AOC/Advisor/Dean of the Faculty Registrar to the ARC chair.
      12.3.2. Athletic Probation. The Physical Education Review Committee (PERC) Chair
      may be more restrictive than placement in reconditioning and intramurals and can restrict
      a cadet from club activities regardless of Physical Education Average (PEA). Waivers to
      participate in scheduled events (games, shows, mission activities, etc.) other than practice
      must be submitted through AOC/Group AOC/ADPR to the PERC chair.
      12.3.3. Conduct/Aptitude Probation. The Group AOC may be more restrictive and
      can restrict a cadet from club activities. Waivers to participate in scheduled events
      (games, shows, mission activities, etc.) other than practice must be submitted through
      AOC/Group AOC /CWV.
      12.3.4. Honor Probation. Cadets are prohibited from representing the Academy in club
      scheduled events (games, shows, mission activities, etc.) while on Honor Probation.
13. Uniform Requirements.
   13.1. Uniforms. Uniforms, to include team logo and artwork, may be purchased after
   review and approval by the CEAB. Sports Clubs will practice in Physical Education (PE)
   uniforms or CEAB approved sport specific uniforms IAW AFCWMAN 36-3501, The Cadet
   Sight Picture. Club team practice uniforms are not to be worn to and from practice prior to
   1645 hours IAW AFCWMAN 36-3501, The Cadet Sight Picture. All uniforms will
   represent the USAFA colors blue, white and gray, will not be personalized or contain any
   sponsorship/logos and will be in good condition. Uniforms purchased by clubs will be used
   by cadets only. NAFs will not be used to purchase distinctive insignia or accessories for
   cadet uniforms (AFI 34-201, paragraph 4.2.18.).
 14                                                          USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012


   13.2. Club Traveling Attire. Travel uniform is dictated by current Force Protection
   conditions as determined by USAFA Command Center (10ABW/CP) Directives. The OICs
   are responsible for ensuring the club uniform favorably represents the Academy and is worn
   by the entire club IAW AFCWMAN 36-3501, The Cadet Sight Picture, paragraph 5.4.
       13.2.1. Fourth-class cadets will comply with appropriate Cadet Wing or higher-level
       directives on the wear of civilian clothing.
       13.2.2. When no other direction is received from the Command Center, the following
       guidelines on uniform wear apply:
           13.2.2.1. Commercial Transportation. Authorized uniform is the service uniform
           with athletic jackets (check AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air
           Force Personnel and AFCWMAN 36-3501, The Cadet Sight Picture); OICs may
           make a modification to the uniform based on weather conditions or other situations,
           but may not authorize less formal uniforms.
           13.2.2.2. Military Transportation. Service dress is to be worn when traveling by
           military airlift, unless specific uniform requirements are approved by SCA or required
           by military airlift.
       13.2.3. Other Force Protection Conditions (FPCON). When the FPCON dictates wear of
       civilian clothes, these will include collared shirt/blouse and slacks (no blue jeans).
       13.2.4. Military Personnel Staff. Wear uniform equivalent to the cadet uniform.
       13.2.5. Civilian Staff. Collared shirt/blouse and slacks (no jeans).
   13.3. Club Patches. These are specialty patches that may be worn on athletic jackets IAW
   AFCWMAN 36-3501, The Cadet Sight Picture. Club patches must be approved by the
   Commandant prior to purchase and wear. OICs must submit a SSS request to the Cadet
   Extracurricular Activities Office prior to obtaining CEAB and Commandant approval.
   13.4. Team Captains Insignia. Club team captains are prohibited from wearing ―Lightning
   Bolt‖ insignia on shoulder marks. Team captain insignias are worn by Intercollegiate Team
   Captains only.
14. Alcohol Consumption. Club OICs are responsible for compliance with USAFA alcohol
policy (outlined in AFCWMAN 36-3501, The Cadet Sight Picture), which prohibits all cadets,
regardless of age, from consuming alcohol when participating in sanctioned events away from
the Academy or while on SCA. This includes any time before, during or after competitions or
events. Exceptions to this policy are rare and must be approved IAW AFCWMAN 36-3501.
15. Travel. An OIC (can be AOIC or NCOIC) must travel with the club during all travel (any
off-USAFA activity). MP Liaison Officers must approve any substitutes for OICs when an OIC
is unable to travel with the club. OICs will provide an event brief and travel itinerary to their MP
Liaison Officer and the USAFA/CWTM office for approval prior to travelling. Exception: The
306 FTG/CC approves all Airmanship team travel plans and personnel.
   15.1. Safety. Club OICs will provide a safety briefing applicable to activities of the trip
   prior to departure from the Academy. Cadets must sign out with an approved SCA number
   at the squadron Cadet-in-Charge of Quarters (CCQ) desk. Before leaving the Academy by
   private or government vehicles, OICs will ensure all participating members are briefed on
USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012                                                                     15


   safe vehicle operation, travel routes, expected weather conditions, appropriate rest stops, seat
   belt use, etc.
   15.2. Emergencies. Club OICs will immediately notify the CW Operations Center at 333-
   2910 or the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office, as appropriate, of any mishap, incident or
   deviation from the approved activity due to weather, maintenance or other cause. Such
   occurrences will require OICs to generate a trip report and submit to USAFA/CWTM.
   15.3. Transportation. Military Air and Ground Transportation. The 306 FTG Airmanship
   teams will coordinate their own transportation needs through appropriate 306 FTG channels.
      15.3.1. Military Ground Transportation. Club OICs will submit a vehicle operations
      request to Transportation (10 LRS/LGRDDO) and the Cadet Extracurricular Activities
      Office at least 15 workdays in advance of a scheduled trip. All requests must originate
      from the OIC.
          15.3.1.1. In accordance with AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, government vehicles
          will not be used for transporting alcoholic beverages, pyrotechnics, dependents, non-
          DoD personnel (other than club contract coaches or volunteers) or for activities at
          high-visibility tourist areas without prior approval from Director, 10th Logistics
          Readiness Squadron (10 LRS/CL) .
      15.3.2. Military Air Transportation. To save funds, OICs may request Military Air
      (MIL AIR) transportation to the military base closest to the destination. Prior to
      requesting MIL AIR, the club must ensure that funds are available for commercial air
      return or additional lodging if the MIL AIR return leg is canceled or postponed. In the
      event that MIL AIR is not approved, the club must cancel the trip or find an alternate
      source of transportation by consulting with the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office.
      The OICs must submit DD Form 2768, Military Air Passenger/Cargo Request, through
      the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office, to the Military Airlift Validator
      (HQ USAFA/ADSL) at least 30 days in advance. Contact the Military Airlift Validator
      at 333-7632 for further information on obtaining military airlift.
16. Supporting Organizations.
   16.1. Athletic Department (AD).
      16.1.1. AD Facility Use. Scheduling of practices and competitions using AD facilities
      must be coordinated in advance with the Athletic Scheduling Coordinator
      (USAFA/ADPL). Requests must be made in advance and in a timely manner. Prior
      approval must be granted through USAFA/ADPL any time a club team enters any AD
      facility (to include athletic fields) for a practice or competition. AD facility use without
      prior authorization can result in disciplinary actions. If the event involves multiple
      collegiate teams or non-collegiate participants, a formal Event Application must be
      submitted 90 days in advance IAW USAFA Form 29, United States Air Force Academy
      Event Application.
      16.1.2. LOS Status. The LOS status allows certain Official Cadet Clubs to excuse a
      specific number of cadets from Intramurals for the purpose of participating in special
      events and training/practice.
16                                                     USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012


        16.1.2.1. LOS Determination. The AD determines how many LOS slots will be
        available for the following academic year. The CEAB allocates LOS slots to eligible
        clubs. The OICs will submit SSS requests through the Cadet Extracurricular
        Activities Office. The 306 FTG Airmanship teams submit LOS requests through the
        306 FTG/OSTR to the CEAB. The CEAB is the final approval authority for how
        LOS slots are distributed.
        16.1.2.2. LOS Guidance.
            16.1.2.2.1. The OICs must input LOS rosters into CAMIS no later than Lesson 6
            of a semester. Rosters must include cadets' full names, social security numbers,
            class year and squadron. Clubs that require tryouts will conduct them before the
            week two requirement.
            16.1.2.2.2. Only cadets on LOS status are excused from participating in
            Intramurals. However, cadets not on LOS status may participate in an LOS
            activity on off-Intramural days when not scheduled to participate in another
            mandatory activity.
            16.1.2.2.3. Cadets on LOS status will adhere to the authorized number of
            absences per semester in accordance with applicable USAFA and Cadet Wing
            instructions and Scheduling Committee policies. LOS status for activities should
            not be confused with the intercollegiate athletic squad on-season status because
            excusal policies are different.
            16.1.2.2.4. Clubs with no LOS may still qualify for excusals on a case-by-case
            basis from classes, military training, aviation program, etc., if they are
            representing the Academy at sanctioned league events. This does not include
            scrimmage or non-league competitions. The Scheduling Committee will review
            all excusals.
            16.1.2.2.5. Sports Clubs with LOS status must practice and compete with an OIC
            present at all times or a qualified, approved coach if the CEAB approves the
            coach as being an acting OIC. If they cannot be present, the club may be placed
            on inactive status (see paragraph 11.1.) and reviewed by the CEAB for LOS
            suspension or permanent loss of LOS.
  16.2. Commercial Sponsorship, Fundraising and/or Soliciting Funds or Donations.
     16.2.1. Commercial Sponsorship. Official Cadet Clubs are not authorized to solicit
     commercial sponsorship. The Commercial Sponsorship Office (10 FSS/FSK) is the only
     authorized agency to solicit commercial sponsorship. The 10 FSS/FSK can establish a
     general awareness of Official Club Programs, including sponsorship opportunities.
     Contact the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office for guidance regarding commercial
     sponsorship.
     16.2.2. Fundraising. Clubs are official organizations and are not authorized to conduct
     fundraisers. Contact the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office or USAFA/JA for
     additional guidance.
USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012                                                                       17


     16.2.3. Soliciting. Official Cadet Clubs are not permitted to solicit funds or accept
     gifts/donations (monetary or in kind) on behalf of the club or the Academy. Contact the
     USAFA/CWTM office or HQ USAFA/JA for proper guidance.
  16.3. Public Affairs (PA).
     16.3.1. Representing USAFA. Only Official Cadet Clubs will be authorized to
     represent USAFA and Public Affairs (HQ USAFA/PA) reserve the right to disapprove
     any event which may bring discredit to the Academy.
     16.3.2. Public Performances. The OICs of performing units will be in-briefed by
     USAFA/PA.
     16.3.3. Guest Speakers. All guest speakers for Official Cadet Clubs must be pre-
     approved by the CEAB and Public Affairs (HQ USAFA/PA). Requests to have a guest
     speaker must be submitted to the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office no later than 2
     weeks in advance of the event. The CEAB is the final approval authority for guest
     speakers.
  16.4. Safety. Safety is the responsibility of all personnel; however, club OICs are ultimately
  responsible to ensure safety is the first consideration in all Official Club activities and travel.
  OICs of sports related clubs should check with Cadet First Responders for possible
  availability at practices and events held on the Academy. The OICs are directly responsible
  for safety measures regarding personnel qualifications, training, care of equipment, travel,
  storage and handling of dangerous items (for example, ammunition, fuel, paints, etc.), use of
  tools and machinery, upkeep of facilities, and activity supervision. Maintain facilities,
  equipment, and operations in accordance with USAFAI 32-2001, Fire Prevention Practices
  and Fire Protection Engineering Standards. The request for certain supplies, considered
  hazardous materials, used in the operation of the club must be procured using an AF Form
  3952, Chemical Hazardous Material Request/Authorization, and routed through the CW
  Safety Office. Safety standards are made known to all members through Air Force
  Occupational Safety and Health (AFOSH) Standards (See AFOSHSTD 91-501). Regular
  self-inspections should be performed to identify and correct unsafe acts and conditions and
  these must be documented and maintained on file in the Cadet Extracurricular Activities
  Office. The CW Safety Office will also perform several types of inspections of clubs. The
  frequency of inspections depends on the club's activities.
     16.4.1. Mishaps. A mishap is an unplanned occurrence or series of occurrences, that
     result in damage or injury and meets reporting criteria of AFMAN 91-224, Ground Safety
     and Investigations Reports. Damage or injury includes: damage to DoD property;
     occupational illness of DoD military or civilian personnel; injury to DoD military on or
     off duty; injury to on-duty DoD civilian personnel; damage to public or private property,
     or injury or illness to non-DoD personnel caused by Air Force operations.
     16.4.2. All mishaps must be reported by club OICs in accordance with CW mishap
     reporting procedures, to include all vehicular mishaps, even those with no injuries.
     Mishaps are then investigated by the CW Safety Office in accordance with AFMAN 91-
     224, Ground Safety Investigations and Reports, and are investigated by the CW Safety
     Officer and the organization concerned and reported to the Cadet Extracurricular
     Activities Office in accordance with AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports.
18                                                        USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012


     16.4.3. Club OICs must ensure clubs with ammunition, fuel, paints, etc., receive
     inspection by munitions, Fire Department or their unit Safety Officer at least twice a year.
     Clubs using ammunition or pyrotechnics are licensed and inspected annually by Safety
     (HQ USAFA/SE) in accordance with applicable Air Force Occupational Safety and
     Health Standards.
  16.5. Medical Support. In the event of a mishap or serious illness, contact 911 if a medical
  emergency occurs. American Medical Response (AMR), the ambulance service used by
  USAFA, will respond and transport to the medical treatment facility on USAFA. Contact the
  Cadet Wing Command Center (333-2910) as soon as possible to inform them of the situation.
     16.5.1. Club OICs will act as the focal point for all medical related issues. The OICs
     should provide self-aid buddy care for an acute injury or illness. If care is beyond what
     can be provided by OICs, first use military medical treatment facilities. If that is not
     practical, the cadet should be referred to the nearest civilian facility. The cadet should
     identify himself or herself as an Active Duty member and provide name, social security
     number, squadron, and USAFA mailing address. All bills should be mailed to WPS/West
     Region Claims, P.O. Box 77028, Madison, WI 53707-7028.
     16.5.2. Routine medical care is not authorized outside of the local area. The AFI 41-101,
     Obtaining Alternative Medical and Dental Care, defines a medical emergency as medical
     care received in order to prevent loss of limb, eyesight, body tissue or prevent undue
     suffering.
     16.5.3. If practical, the cadet or OIC should contact TRIWEST at 1-888-874-9378 before
     receiving medical care at a civilian facility. The use of civilian care must be reported to
     the Cadet Clinic ASAP at (719) 333-5125 or DSN 333-5125. If the cadet is hospitalized,
     the Cadet Wing Command Center must also be notified ASAP at (719) 333-2910 or DSN
     333-2910 as well as the AOC responsible for the injured cadet.
     16.5.4. If surgery or hospitalization is required, the attending physician should be asked
     to call the Medical Officer on Call at 1-800-379-1455 extension 5000 or 5005, or (719)
     333-5000/5005.
     16.5.5. During competition, OICs should accompany injured cadets to the medical
     facility.
     16.5.6. Take the following actions if a mishap occurs on the Academy grounds (not in
     the Cadet Area): contact CW/Safety to transport the victim to the USAFA Hospital or
     call USAFA emergency room for an ambulance or use a private vehicle, depending on
     the seriousness of the incident.
     16.5.7. Take the following actions if a mishap occurs at Farish Recreation Area,
     Colorado Springs, or in the local area, but off the Academy property: take the person to
     the nearest hospital by private vehicle, if conditions allow, or call an ambulance,
     depending on the severity of the situation. Upon return to USAFA, report the incident to
     USAFA Hospital and Cadet Clinic. Report such incidents to the mission partner POC
     and Unit Safety Officer. If on a trip, also include the incident in the trip report.
     16.5.8. In all cases where injury occurs, contact the MP unit safety representative and the
     Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office the next duty day. Fill out a USAFA Form 49,
USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012                                                                19


       Supervisor’s Report of Mishap, and submit no later than 2 workdays to the CW Safety
       Office.
17. Types of Funding. Official Cadet Clubs are authorized financial support from 4 different
sources of funding; Appropriated Funds (APF), Non-appropriated Funds (NAF), gift (or donor)
funds and Air Force Academy Athletic Association (AFAAA) funds, in addition to club dues.
The CEAB is the final approval authority for determining all budgetary matters concerning
Official Cadet Clubs. See Figure 2. below for sources of funding.

Figure 2. Official Cadet Clubs Sources of Funding.




   17.1. Appropriated Funds (APF). Appropriated funding for Official Cadet Clubs comes
   from the CW, CWT and MP budgets (as appropriate). Travel is accomplished using a Cadet
   Extracurricular Activities Office Information for Orders Worksheet and the Defense Travel
   System (DTS). Purchase requests are accomplished using AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
   and Government Purchase Cards (GPC) governed by AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-
   Wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program and AFI 65-601 Volume 1, Budget Guidance and
   Procedures.
       17.1.1. The 306 FTG Airmanship teams are funded by the 306 FTG budget.             All
       expenditures and travel are approved and funded through 306 FTG channels.
   17.2. Gifts Funds. Official Cadet Clubs are authorized funding and other support by
   contributions from outside agencies, but all contributions must be processed in accordance
   with appropriate instructions. Funds and material items in support of cadet clubs are
   generally accepted as gifts to the Air Force and processed by Development and Alumni
   Programs (HQ USAFA/CMA) according to AFI 51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air
   Force and USAFAI 51-601, USAF Academy Management and Use of Gift Funds. When the
   desired use of funds requires that they be spent through Services they will be accepted as
   donations and processed by 10 FSS/FSR in accordance with AFI 34-201. Clubs will submit
   gift needs requests through the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office to HQ USAFA/CMA
   on an annual basis. Travel is accomplished using a Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office
   Information for Orders Worksheet and the Defense Travel System (DTS). Purchase requests
   are accomplished using AF Forms 9.
   17.3. Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF). Overall Non-Appropriated Funding for Official
   Cadet Clubs is approved and set by the NAF Council. Travel is accomplished using a Cadet
   Extracurricular Activities Office Information for Orders Worksheet and manual orders.
   Purchase requests are accomplished using AF Forms 9.
   17.4. Dues. All Recreational and Sports Club budget shortfalls should be overcome by
   collecting dues and must be budgeted with this in mind. In some instances, dues may be over
   50% of the budget. Dues must be turned into the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office and
   then deposited with the NAF Financial Office and the applicable club must follow all NAF
   rules (paragraph 17.3. above) once deposited. Club bank accounts are not authorized. Per
20                                                         USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012


  paragraph 12.2.6. of this instruction, cadets on any type of probation will not be refunded any
  dues.
  17.5. Obligating Government Funds by Unauthorized Personnel. All available sources
  of money for Official Cadet Clubs are government funds and the same basic rules apply.
  Regardless of the source of money, OICs, clubs, the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office,
  and the CEAB CANNOT obligate government money. Approval of a budget, a trip, a
  contract, etc. does NOT constitute consent to spend or obligate money. BEFORE spending
  money, OICs must get acknowledgement from the Cadet Extracurricular Activities Office
  that the applicable funding source has approved the expenditure. Failure to comply can
  result in denial of reimbursement or pecuniary responsibility falling on the individual who
  obligated government funds without authorization.




                                           RICHARD M. CLARK, Brig Gen, USAF
                                           Commandant of Cadets
USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012                                                            21


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFCWMAN 36-3501, The Cadet Sight Picture
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations
AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds (NAFS)
AFI 34-204, Property Management
AFI 34-219, USAFA Supplement 1, Alcoholic Beverage Program
AFI 34-223, Private Organization (PO) Program
AFI 34-407, Commercial Sponsorship
AFI 36-310, Fundraising within the Air Force
AFI 41-101, Obtaining Alternative Medical and Dental Care
AFI 51-601 and USAFA Supplement, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force
AFI 65-106, Appropriated Fund Support of Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) and
Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFIS)
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigations and Reports
AFMAN 91-224, Ground Safety Investigations and Reports
AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard
DoD 5500.7-R, Joint Ethics Regulation
USAFAI 31-105, Vehicle Access Puck/Proximity Access Card Issues and Control (FOUO)
USAFAI 32-2001, Fire Prevention Practices and Fire Protection Engineering Standards
USAFAI 36-3523, Review and Disposition of Deficient Cadets
USAFAI 51-601, USAF Academy Management and Use of Gift Funds
USAFAI 51-902, Fundraising and On-base Solicitation
USAFA Cadet Chapel OI 52-5, Religious Education for Religious Education instructions
Adopted Forms
AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet (SSS)
AF Form 3952, Chemical Hazardous Material Request/Authorization
DD Form 2768, Military Air Passenger/Cargo Request
USAFA Form 17, Request for USAFA Scheduling Committee Action
 22                                                     USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012


USAFA Form 49, Mishap Worksheet
USAFA Form 105, Application for Temporary Proximity Access Card
USAFA Form 106, Application for Proximity Access Card

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFT—Aerobic Fitness Test
AMT—Academy Military Trainer
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
AOG—Association of Graduates
AOIC—Assistant Officer-in-Charge
APF—Appropriated Funds
CEAB—Cadet Extracurricular Activities Board
CIC—Cadet-in-Charge
GPCP—Government Purchase Card Program
LMD—Last Military Duty
LOS—Limited-on-Season
MIL AIR—Military Air
MP—Mission Partner
NAF—Nonappropriated Funds
NCOIC—Noncommissioned Officer-in-Charge
OIC—Officer-in-Charge
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PERC—Physical Education Review Committee
PFT—Physical Fitness Test
POC—Point of Contact
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RA—Resource Advisor
USAFAI36-3521 21 MARCH 2012             23


RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SCA—Scheduling Committee Action
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
