BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
US AIR FORCES IN EUROPE (USAFE)                                          INSTRUCTION 36-1201
                                                                                    14 NOVEMBER 2002
                                                                          Certified Current on 9 June 2014
                                                                                                 Personnel

                                                              GRIEVANCES AND APPEALS NON-US
                                                                          CITIZEN EMPLOYEES

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAFE/DPCP                                    Certified by: HQ USAFE/DPC (Mr. John C. Day)
     (Ms. Eva Schmitt-Vogeley)                                                            Pages: 6
                                                                                   Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-12, Dispute Resolution. The instruction outlines USAFE policy on
the adjudication of non-US citizen employee grievances and appeals, and establishes procedures for their
processing through internal USAFE channels. The instruction applies to all appropriated and nonappro-
priated fund employees of the US Forces administered by a US Air Force Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF)
in Germany under the terms of the Collective Tariff Agreement (CTA II), or individual employment
agreements related thereto; in Turkey, provided they are neither members of nor solidarity dues payers to
the signatory union of the Collective Labor Agreement (CLA), and therefore, exempt from the scope of
the latter. “For Air Force users: Maintain and dispose of records created by prescribed processes in accor-
dance with Air force Manual (AFMAN) 37-139. Records Disposition Schedule (will become AFMAN
33-322, Volume 4).”

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Rescinds applicability for Italy. Updates office symbols from DPCI to DPCP, and Civilian Personnel
Division to Civilian Personnel and Personnel Resources Division (DPC), paragraph 3.5. Deletes reference
to outdated regulatory material, paragraph 8., and corrects references under Attachment 1.


1. Policy:
   1.1. Employees will be guaranteed an opportunity for fair and impartial review of all grievances and
   appeals, and will receive equitable treatment in every respect.
   1.2. Employees will be free from restraint, interference, coercion, discrimination, or reprisal when
   either expressing an intention to exercise any of their rights under this instruction, or actually present-
   ing grievances or appeals, or furnishing testimony in relation thereto. Certified Current 25 September 2012
2                                                               USAFEI36-1201 14 NOVEMBER 2002


2. Exclusions . Do not use the USAFE Grievance and Appeal Procedures to review:
    2.1. Applicable negotiated employment statutes, collective agreements or policy published by higher
    headquarters, except alleged incorrect application thereof;
    2.2. The classification of positions;
    2.3. Actions taken in the interest of military security;
    2.4. Determinations of officially recognized medical authorities;
    2.5. Separation during probationary period;
    2.6. Voluntary resignations;
    2.7. Termination of temporary employment due to expiration;
    2.8. Termination of employment due to retirement;
    2.9. Non-adoption of a suggestion or disapproval of a performance award or other kind of honorary
    or discretionary award;
    2.10. Actions appealed directly to a court, unless the employee withdraws his or her court case or
    agrees to suspension of court proceedings pending decision on the grievance or appeal filed through
    internal channels.

3. Responsibilities:
    3.1. Employees will:
       3.1.1. Make every effort to understand, accept, and support the personnel policies which govern
       their employment.
       3.1.2. Discuss problems with the immediate supervisor at the earliest opportunity.
    3.2. Supervisors and operating officials will:
       3.2.1. Establish and maintain the best possible working environment to promote the efficiency,
       productivity, and morale of employees in the organization;
       3.2.2. Give prompt, thorough and unbiased attention to any grievance or appeal, regardless of
       whether it is filed with or without just cause;
       3.2.3. Determine underlying causes of grievances and eliminate any conditions within their direct
       area of jurisdiction that might or do give rise to valid grievances;
       3.2.4. Attempt to resolve grievances as expeditiously as possible, or assist employees in securing
       a satisfactory solution to problems presented;
       3.2.5. Inform employees of the procedure for filing grievances or appeals.
    3.3. Civilian Personnel Officers (CPO) will:
       3.3.1. Implement procedures for local review and processing of grievances and appeals.
       3.3.2. Ensure that employees, management officials, and employee representatives are informed
       of the procedures established in this instruction and local supplement thereto, if any, at least annu-
       ally.
USAFEI36-1201 14 NOVEMBER 2002                                                                              3


       3.3.3. Furnish advice and assistance to employees and management as further outlined in para 6.
       below.
       3.3.4. Maintain an unbiased and disinterested viewpoint in handling all grievances and appeals.
   3.4. Installation commanders will:
       3.4.1. Direct, as necessary, investigation of appeals and group or individual grievances to deter-
       mine whether just cause or valid basis exists for dissatisfaction.
       3.4.2. Make final installation review of facts and render decision;
       3.4.3. Advise appellants by written notification of their final decision, and right of further appeal.
   3.5. Civilian Personnel and Personnel Resources Division, (HQ USAFE/DPC) will:
       3.5.1. Provide guidance and technical assistance to installation commanders and CPFs on all
       aspects of the USAFE grievance and appeal procedure.
       3.5.2. Review and render final decision on grievances and appeals from decisions of installation
       commanders as prescribed in paragraph 8.

4. Time Limits. Employees may present a grievance concerning a continuing practice or condition at
any time, but must present a grievance concerning a particular act or occurrence within 15 calendar days
of the date they became aware of it. File appeals from adverse action not later than 15 calendar days fol-
lowing receipt of written notice. Extend time limits if the employee shows that extenuating circumstances
beyond his or her control prevented filing of the appeal in time. Extensions must be requested and
approved in writing. The fact that an employee files or intends to file a grievance or an appeal will not
delay administrative action.

5. Representation:
   5.1. An employee has the right to be accompanied, represented, and advised by one representative of
   his or her choice in the presentation of an appeal or a grievance to any administrative supervisor above
   the first level of supervision, the civilian personnel officer, or to any other person designated by the
   installation commander to consider or review the grievance or the appeal. The employee must desig-
   nate the representative in writing at the time he or she presents the grievance or appeal or when the
   representative is to act in that capacity without the employee’s presence. A written designation may be
   changed only by written notification to the official then considering the matter.
   5.2. Management shall have the right to disallow the employee’s selection of a representative on the
   grounds of conflict of interest or conflict of position. The disallowance must be in writing. It must
   state the specific reasons for the disallowance, and be delivered to the employee within five calendar
   days after receipt of the employee’s notification of a representative.
   5.3. An employee may challenge disallowance of a representative within five calendar days from
   receipt of a respective notification. The challenge must be in writing and addressed to the installation
   commander, who will render final decision. Pending that decision, all action on the appeal or griev-
   ance will be held in abeyance.
4                                                                USAFEI36-1201 14 NOVEMBER 2002


6. Processing of Grievances and Appeals:
    6.1. An individual employee or a group of employees may present a grievance provided that, in the
    latter case, the issues in the grievance and the remedy sought are identical for each employee joining
    in the grievance. Process group grievances as a single grievance in the name of one employee desig-
    nated by the others to act for them. However, all employees joining in the grievance must be identi-
    fied, and all must sign the grievance at the stage it is placed in writing. If no individual is designated
    to carry the grievance, address communications to the employee whose name appeared first in the
    grievance.
    6.2. Employees desiring consideration of a grievance must first seek informal adjustment of the mat-
    ter through supervisory channels.
       6.2.1. Usually make the initial presentation, which may be oral or written, to the immediate super-
       visor, stating the case in detail, and indicating the remedy sought. When the complaint concerns
       relationships with or actions taken by a supervisor, present the grievance to the next higher super-
       visor in the chain of command.
       6.2.2. The supervisor to whom the grievance is presented will attempt to resolve it as expedi-
       tiously as possible, and will give the employee a decision on the matter within 10 calendar days
       after the day of presentation. In arriving at a decision, the supervisor will collect and review all
       essential and pertinent facts and give to the person or persons who are the target of the complaint
       an opportunity to execute a written statement. Obtain coordination with appropriate levels of line
       management or concerned staff officials if appropriate. If the supervisor cannot grant the adjust-
       ment sought, inform the employee of the reasons and his or her right to request further consider-
       ation under formal procedures in paragraph 6.4. below.
       6.2.3. In presenting a grievance, employees are entitled to communicate with and seek advice
       from the CPO or a responsible member of his or her staff. Where it appears that settlement of a
       grievance may be expedited, the CPO will attempt to bring together the individuals concerned
       with the matter for the purpose of their resolving the matter informally.
    6.3. Address initial appeals from adverse action in writing to an official above the level of the individ-
    ual who made the adverse action decision and signed the respective notice or notification, as desig-
    nated therein. Apply principles and procedures in paragraphs 6.2.2. and 6.2.3. with respect to
    processing of an appeal at this level.
    6.4. On receipt of an unfavorable decision on his or her grievance or appeal under informal proce-
    dures in 6.2. and 6.3., or when the time limit for management action has expired without a decision,
    the employee may, within 10 calendar days thereafter, submit the grievance to the installation com-
    mander, Attn: Civilian Personnel Officer. The grievance or appeal must be in writing, signed by the
    employee, specify the basis for the action and relief sought, and explain efforts made to resolve the
    matter informally.
       6.4.1. The CPO will promptly review the case and make a determination as to whether the griev-
       ance or appeal is procedurally acceptable or should be rejected on the basis of paragraph 2. In the
       latter case, notify the employee in writing. If the grievance or appeal is acceptable, the CPO will
       prepare a summary of facts and recommendations, and forward the case file to the installation
       commander.
USAFEI36-1201 14 NOVEMBER 2002                                                                           5


       6.4.2. The installation commander will review all available evidence and determine whether or
       not a decision can be rendered without further investigation. If deemed necessary, he or she may
       appoint an impartial examiner to further investigate into the facts and make a recommendation.
       The installation commander will inform the complainant of his or her decision in writing within 10
       calendar days from receipt of the grievance or appeal file. If an employee of a serviced organiza-
       tion or installation filed the grievance or appeal, the installation commander will coordinate his
       decision with the respective serviced commander. A decision rendered on a group grievance
       applies to all employees in the group, and each will be provided a copy of the written decision.

7. Review of Installation Level Decisions:
   7.1. If the decision of the installation commander is not favorable, employees may request a review
   and appeal for a final decision within 10 calendar days to HQ USAFE/DPC.
   7.2. Requests for review must be in writing, explaining fully and clearly the basis for disagreeing with
   the contested decision, and submitted to the servicing CPF. The CPF will transmit requests in a timely
   manner to the reviewing authority together with the complete case file, and if appropriate, the
   employee’s official personnel folder.

8. Works Council Participation in Germany. When an employee elects to present a complaint to the
installation works council rather than under procedures established in this instruction, the works council
is expected to work for its redress through negotiations with the employee’s supervisor, the agency chief,
or the CPO as appropriate. Give full consideration at all levels of supervision to recommendations of the
works council regarding legitimate complaints.

9. Remedial Action. When decisions on grievances or appeals are made in favor of employees, take
appropriate remedial action promptly insofar as possible under governing law or instructions.



                                                     LEO E. KRINGER, JR., Colonel, USAF
                                                     Director of Personnel
6                                                           USAFEI36-1201 14 NOVEMBER 2002


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-12, Dispute Resolution
AFI 36-102, Basic Authority and Responsibility for Civilian Personnel Management and Administration
USAFEPAM 36-720, Collective Tariff Agreements (CTA II) That Apply to Persons Employed by the U.S.
Forces in Germany, (English Translation)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CLA—Collective Labor Agreement
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CPO—Civilian Personnel Officer
CTA—Collective Tariff Agreement

Terms
Adverse Action—Any management-initiated personnel action that adversely affects an employee’s pay,
conditions of or continuity of employment.
Appeal—The written request by an employee for reconsideration of an adverse action decision.
Grievance—The verbal or written request by an employee, or a group of employees acting as individuals,
for personal relief in a matter of concern or dissatisfaction related to specific employment aspects,
working conditions, or work relationships which is subject to the control of Air Force management.
Installation Commander—The commander to whom authority has been delegated under AFI 36-102, as
supplemented, to appoint, assign, promote, demote, and separate, or to administer non-US citizen
personnel under a direct or an indirect hire employment system.
