BY ORDER OF THE                                           HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                           ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-2001

                                                                              31 MARCH 2010

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                 CADET SERVICE ACADEMY EXCHANGE
                                                                        PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available from the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading and ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/CWTS                                                    Certified by: USAFA/CWT
Supersedes: USAFAI 36-2001,                                       (Lt Col Timothy McCaffery)
            28 February 2008                                                        Pages: 13


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-20, Accession of Air Force
Military Personnel, for an exchange program between the US Air Force, Coast Guard, Military,
and Naval academies. The purpose of the exchange program is to provide an opportunity for
selected USAFA cadets to garner a better understanding of the culture and core competencies
associated with the separate branches of our United States military services. This voluntary
program involves an exchange of cadets and midshipmen during the spring and fall semester of
each academic year. This instruction applies to all United States Air Force Academy (USAFA)
agencies involved in support of the Cadet Service Academy Exchange Program. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this and other publications to
USAFA/CWTS, 2354 Fairchild Drive, Suite 1J118, USAF Academy, CO 80840, on Air Force
(AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. This instruction requires the
collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been revised to reflect the following: Cadets will participate in host
academy physical fitness evaluations (paragraph 1.4.2.). Cadet travel orders will now be
2                                                          USAFAI36-2001 31 MARCH 2010


processed through the Defense Travel System (paragraph 2.1.7.6.). Cadets must have a PEA of
2.4 or higher to participate in the program (paragraph 3.3.). Attachment 3 has been revised and
reflects the correct Memorandum for Record format.
1. How the Exchange Works:
    1.1. The USAF Academy selects cadets to participate in a semester-long exchange program
    with the United States Military Academy (USMA), the United States Naval Academy
    (USNA), and the United States Coast Guard Academy (USCGA).
       1.1.1. The number and rank of cadets exchanged is In Accordance With (IAW) the
       current Conference of Service Academy Superintendents (COSAS) agreement.
    1.2. The exchange begins prior to the start of the semester as determined by the host
    academy and ends after final examinations are completed at the host academy.
    1.3. Exchange cadets and midshipmen are completely integrated into the host academy’s
    activities and will be governed by the host’s rules and instructions. Exchange cadets and
    midshipmen are afforded the same passes and liberties as equivalent ranked cadets within
    their squadron.
       1.3.1. Exchange cadets and midshipmen will comply with the host academy’s honor
       code. Suspected violations of a host academy’s honor code by a visiting exchange cadet
       or midshipmen will be reported immediately to the visiting cadet’s/midshipman’s home
       academy. The host academy will fully investigate the alleged violation in accordance
       with its own policies and procedures. The host academy honor committee will
       recommend whether an honor board should be held. Honor boards, if held for exchange
       cadets/midshipmen, will be convened at the cadets’/midshipmen’s home academy.
       1.3.2. Infractions of host academy regulations and policies will be adjudicated and
       punishment administered by the host academy in accordance with its own policies and
       procedures with the following exception: exchange cadets/midshipmen at USAFA will
       not be subject to punishment under Article 15 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, in
       accordance with U.S. Army, U.S. Navy, and Coast Guard regulations. It is important to
       note that only the USAFA Superintendent has the authority to disenroll USAFA cadets.
    1.4. While on the exchange program, USAFA cadets are expected to participate in all facets
    of the host academy’s way of life to learn as much as possible during their stay. USAFA
    cadets are expected to maintain good academic, military, and athletic performance while at
    the host academy. Exchange cadets/midshipmen will participate in the appropriate Character
    Development programs available to their class. Concerning academic and military grades,
    the following apply:
       1.4.1. If the end-of-semester academic grades received would ordinarily result in
       academic probationary status at USAFA, the cadet is on academic probation upon return.
       Cadets receive credit for courses passed. Such credit is entered on their academic records
       and computed into their Grade Point Average (GPA).
       1.4.2. Upon return to USAFA, the previous Military Performance Average (MPA)
       (semester or cumulative, whichever is higher) is assigned for the next semester unless
       extraordinary circumstances warrant assigning a different MPA. Upon return to USAFA,
       the previous semester’s Physical Education Average (PEA) is assigned for the next
USAFAI36-2001 31 MARCH 2010                                                                 3


      semester. It is important to note, while on exchange all host academy physical fitness
      evaluations must be taken and passed. Failure to pass an evaluation may result in
      remedial/disciplinary action.
2. Responsibilities. The Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW) has overall responsibility for
this program. Other key staff heads in the exchange program are the Chief, Scheduling
(USAFA/CWTS); Support Division (USAFA/CWTM); Dean of the Faculty (USAFA/DF);
Director of Athletics (USAFA/AD); Director of Manpower and Personnel (USAFA/DP);
Director of Financial Management and Comptroller (HQ USAFA/FM); the 10th Medical Group
Commander (10 MDG/CC); 10th Communications Squadron (10 CS/CL); 10th Logistics
Readiness Squadron (10 LRS/CL) and the 306th Flying Training Group Commander
(306 FTG/CC). Specific tasks for each of these staff heads are as follows:
   2.1. The Commandant of Cadets through the Director of Training Support (USAFA/CWT):
      2.1.1. Appoints a selection board member (rank of O-4 or above when possible) to
      interview applicants, review packages, and score each applicant during the selection
      board.
      2.1.2. Through the Chief, Cadet Standards and Discipline (USAFA/CWVV), reviews
      exchange uniform requirements no later than 15 April (fall exchange) and 15 November
      (spring exchange) of each year (see Attachment 2). Notifies USAFA/CWTS of any
      changes so they may be included in the instructions to participating cadets.
      2.1.3. Ensures respective AOCs submit military evaluations and evaluation comments
      for each visiting cadet and midshipman to USAFA/CWTS prior to their end of semester
      departure. AOCs should specifically mention leadership potential, military conduct,
      strengths and weaknesses, etc., of the visiting cadet/midshipman. Forms and instructions
      supplied by the home academy through USAFA/CWTS will be used for this purpose. In
      the absence of these forms, a military memorandum format will be used for this purpose.
      2.1.4. Ensures respective AOCs assign a cadet sponsor for the incoming exchange cadet
      or midshipman. Cadet sponsor duties include ensuring linens are available and providing
      an explanation of the cadet area, schedule of calls, etc.
      2.1.5. Informs the USAFA program manager of change in status of any of the exchange
      cadets or midshipmen.
      2.1.6. Counsels all cadets selected for the exchange program on the objectives and goals
      for the program and reminds them of their roles as representatives of the Air Force
      Academy Cadet Wing.
      2.1.7. Through the Chief, Scheduling Division (USAFA/CWTS):
          2.1.7.1. Appoints a USAFA program manager from the Scheduling Division who
          coordinates all aspects of the program with applicable USAFA agencies and his or
          her counterpart at each participating academy. The program manager:
          2.1.7.2. Briefs all interested eligible cadets about the program at the beginning of
          each semester. The briefing includes application procedures, selection process,
          program specifics (with returning and current exchange cadets briefing their
          experiences), and notification procedures.
4                                                    USAFAI36-2001 31 MARCH 2010


    2.1.7.3. Establishes a selection board to select primary and alternate USAFA
    exchange participants. It consists of a representative from the Scheduling Division,
    the Office of the Registrar (USAFA/DFR), and Athletic Programs (USAFA/ADP).
    Board members should be O-4 or above. The USAFA program manager acts as the
    board recorder, but is not a voting member. See paragraph 5 for selection board
    procedures. Results of the board’s actions are not released until after USAFA/CW
    approval.
    2.1.7.4. Prepares the AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, for USAFA/CW approval
    of selected primary and alternate USAFA exchange participants. The AF Form 1768
    must be coordinated through USAFA/DF, USAFA/AD, USAFA/CWTS, and
    approved by USAFA/CW. An informational copy of the AF Form 1768 is provided
    to the Superintendent, Headquarters USAFA (HQ USAFA/CC).
    2.1.7.5. Notifies each USAFA applicant by memorandum, through the Air Officer
    Commanding (AOC), of selection or non-selection as soon as possible after
    USAFA/CW approval. Provides appropriate USAFA agencies with an approved list
    of cadets participating in the exchange program. Sends approved names to the
    respective exchange academy no later than 30 April (fall exchange) and 30 November
    (spring exchange) of each year. Also, notifies USAFA/DPY and USAFA/DFR of the
    departure and arrival dates as soon as possible for duty status updates of exchange
    cadets.
    2.1.7.6. Ensures each cadet participating in the exchange program has prepared
    orders in the Defense Travel System (DTS) no later than 1 May (fall exchange) and
    1 Dec (spring exchange) of each year.
    2.1.7.7. Prepares and distributes outprocessing instructions to participating USAFA
    cadets no later than 1 May (fall exchange) and 1 December (spring exchange) of each
    year.     The instructions should outline outprocessing procedures, reporting
    instructions, transportation procedures and limitations, change of address instructions,
    uniform requirements, and required records to hand-carry to host academy, etc.
    2.1.7.8. Compiles a list and distributes to appropriate USAFA agencies as names of
    cadets and midshipmen arrive from other participating academies.
    2.1.7.9. Assigns visiting cadets and midshipmen to squadrons and sends a list to
    USAFA/CWTS for approval no later than 15 May (fall exchange) and 15 December
    (spring exchange) of each year. Where possible, assigns cadets and midshipmen to
    squadrons that have USAFA cadets participating in the exchange. When possible,
    does not assign more than one service academy exchange cadet or midshipman to the
    same squadron.
    2.1.7.10. Ensures assignment of post office boxes to incoming exchange cadets and
    midshipmen.
    2.1.7.11. Ensures e-mail accounts are established for the visiting cadets and
    midshipmen. Ensures that USAFA cadets at their host academies can receive
    USAFA e-mail.
USAFAI36-2001 31 MARCH 2010                                                                  5


        2.1.7.12. Establishes inprocessing procedures for arriving exchange cadets and
        midshipmen, and prepares inprocessing instructions. During Transition Week, holds
        a meeting with visiting cadets and midshipmen to cover inprocessing procedures as
        well as any other USAFA-specific issues deemed necessary.
        2.1.7.13. Establishes outprocessing procedures for departing exchange cadets and
        midshipmen and prepares outprocessing instructions no later than 15 April (fall
        exchange) and 15 November (spring exchange) of each year. Instructions should
        include an outprocessing checklist. This checklist will include an item certifying that
        microcomputer systems and software have been returned to the point of issue.
        2.1.7.14. Ensures overall academic and military evaluations of each visiting cadet
        and midshipman are sent to their respective academy no later than 14 January (fall
        exchange) and 14 June (spring exchange) of each year.
        2.1.7.15. Consolidates after action reports from all USAFA exchange cadets and
        ensures after action feedback is disseminated to appropriate agencies.
        2.1.7.16. Schedules welcome meetings for the visiting exchange cadets and
        midshipmen with the Commandant of Cadets and the Director of Training Support.
        2.1.7.17. Schedules exit interviews for the visiting cadets and midshipmen, and
        return interviews for the returning USAFA cadets with the USAFA Superintendent,
        Commandant of Cadets, Dean of the Faculty, Director of Training Support, and the
        Director of Athletics.
     2.1.8. Through the Support Division (USAFA/CWTM):
        2.1.8.1. Ensures the services and supplies necessary for each incoming cadet and
        midshipman are authorized and available as necessary. Serves as contact point for
        replacement of needed distinctive items.
        2.1.8.2. Through 10th Civil Engineer Squadron Dormitory Coordinator
        (10 CES/CEOCH), issues linens, blankets, and pillows to visiting exchange cadets
        and midshipmen, as needed, at the beginning of the semester and ensures these items
        are returned prior to their departure.
        2.1.8.3. Through 10th Logistics Readiness Squadron, Cadet Issue (10 LRS/LGRCI)
        ensures replacement uniform items are available for purchase in the Cadet Uniform
        Replacement Store prior to USAFA exchange cadets’ departure.
           2.1.8.3.1. Ensures each USAFA cadet participant has a serviceable flightsuit and
           flight jacket during the month of May (fall exchange) and December (spring
           exchange). Ensures cadets return issued items after they return to USAFA.
           2.1.8.3.2. Issues flight suits and flight jackets to visiting exchange cadets and
           midshipmen as needed for aviation programs and incentive flights. Ensures
           cadets and midshipmen return issued items prior to departure at the end of the
           semester.
  2.2. The Dean of the Faculty (USAFA/DF) through Student Academic Affairs
  (USAFA/DFR):
6                                                           USAFAI36-2001 31 MARCH 2010


       2.2.1. Appoints a selection board member (rank of O-4 or above when possible) to
       interview applicants, review packages, and score each applicant during the selection
       board.
       2.2.2. Meets with advisors and participating USAFA cadets no later than 15 April (fall
       exchange) and 15 November (spring exchange) of each year to finalize cadets’ academic
       programs at the host academy.
       2.2.3. Inputs academic scheduling data on incoming, visiting exchange cadets, and
       midshipmen into the CAMIS by 15 July (fall exchange) and 1 January (spring exchange)
       of each year.
       2.2.4. Coordinates with the other participating academies and sends course registration
       information electronically for each participating USAFA cadet.
       2.2.5. Coordinates with the other participating academies and appropriate USAFA
       agencies to prepare academic schedules for visiting exchange cadets and midshipmen by
       the beginning of the semester.
       2.2.6. During Transition Week (in coordination with the USAFA/CWTS program
       manager), holds a meeting with visiting cadets and midshipmen, and the USAFA/DF
       department representative to settle any scheduling problems.
       2.2.7. Ensures adherence to the following PE grading procedures: USAFA exchange
       cadets are allowed validation credit for fitness tests and intramurals scheduled during the
       exchange period. USAFA exchange cadets receive a one-for-one credit for a course
       taken at the host academy, provided it correlates to a USAFA Physical Education course.
       2.2.8. Ensures sufficient copies of the visiting exchange cadets’ and midshipmen’s
       transcripts are prepared for the home academy, and each cadet and midshipman. Ensures
       these are sent out no later than 14 January (fall exchange) and 14 June (spring exchange)
       of each year.
       2.2.9. Takes action to post appropriate grades, transfer credit, and determine eligibility
       for appropriate honor’s list and academic probation as needed, upon receipt of USAFA
       exchange cadet transcripts from the visited institution.
    2.3. The Director, 10th Communications Squadron (10 CS/CL) through the Helpdesk
    (10 CS/SCOS):
       2.3.1. Provides exchange cadets with microcomputer systems and software compatible
       with the USAFA cadets. These systems are issued to the exchange cadets on a hand
       receipt during Transition Week and turned in prior to departure to their home academy.
       2.3.2. Ensures appropriate security software is installed on systems exchange cadets
       bring with them.
    2.4. The Director of Athletics (USAFA/AD):
       2.4.1. Appoints a selection board member (rank of O-4 or above, or civilian equivalent
       when possible) to interview applicants, review packages, and score each applicant during
       the selection board.
USAFAI36-2001 31 MARCH 2010                                                                    7


     2.4.2. Assists the USAFA/DF project officer in scheduling incoming cadets and
     midshipmen in the physical education program.
     2.4.3. Determines each cadet’s eligibility to compete in the exchange academy’s
     intercollegiate programs. Prior to any intercollegiate athletic practice or competition,
     each exchange cadet has a mandatory requirement to confer with the USAFA NCAA
     Compliance Division to determine his or her intercollegiate athletic eligibility. Failure to
     do so may result in ineligibility for future NCAA competition.
  2.5. The Director of Manpower and Personnel (HQ USAFA/DP) through the Chief, Cadet
  Personnel Division (HQ USAFA/DPY):
     2.5.1. Is responsible for the military personnel processing of all cadets and midshipmen
     participating in the exchange program.
     2.5.2. Ensures each USAFA exchange cadet:
         2.5.2.1. Is outprocessed through Cadet Personnel Branch (HQ USAFA/DPYQ) in
         accordance with current HQ USAFA/DPY policy.
         2.5.2.2. Status is updated to the appropriate duty status code in CAMIS upon
         departure.
         2.5.2.3. Inprocesses through HQ USAFA/DPYQ upon return to USAFA. Duty status
         code is updated in CAMIS to show the cadet has returned to USAFA.
     2.5.3. Ensures each visiting exchange cadet and midshipman:
         2.5.3.1. Inprocesses with HQ USAFA/DPYQ to establish a mini record.
         2.5.3.2. Has a duty status code updated in CAMIS (in coordination with the
         USAFA/DFR) upon arrival and departure from USAFA.
         2.5.3.3. Is outprocessed through HQ USAFA/DPYQ in accordance with current
         HQ USAFA/DPY policy.
  2.6. The Director of Financial Management and Comptroller through the Chief of Financial
  Services (HQ USAFA/FMF):
     2.6.1. Maintains the cadet pay records of the USAFA exchange cadets during their
     period of Temporary Duty (TDY).
     2.6.2. Discontinues, deducts, or reduces all the fixed charges for personal deductions the
     USAFA exchange cadets will not be using or participating in during the exchange to a
     host academy.
  2.7. The 10th Medical Group Commander (10 MDG/CC) through the Cadet Clinic will:
     2.7.1. Provide each participating USAFA exchange cadet his or her medical records
     within 3 days prior to the cadet’s departure from USAFA. Cadets will pick-up and hand
     carry these records to their host academies. Cadets will return these records to the Cadet
     Clinic upon return to USAFA. Dental records are forwarded to the host academy
     according to 10th Dental Squadron policy.
     2.7.2. Ensure USAFA exchange cadets with special medical considerations are provided
     appropriate documentation, medication, instructions, etc., prior to their departure.
8                                                            USAFAI36-2001 31 MARCH 2010


       2.7.3. Place appropriate statement in each exchange cadet’s medical record certifying he
       or she is medically qualified for parachute jump training, flights in ejection seat aircraft,
       and other military training programs as required.
       2.7.4. Ensure visiting cadets and midshipmen are given priority during initial semester
       inprocessing to be provided: appropriate treatment, medication, instructions, requisite
       physical screenings required for participation in airmanship programs, issued spectacles
       required for participation in airmanship programs, and coordination with Peterson Life
       Support for Altitude Chamber Training, etc., while at USAFA.
3. Determining Eligibility:
    3.1. Second class cadets enrolled at participating military academies are eligible to
    participate in the Service Academy Exchange Program.
    3.2. Cadets who are on any form of probation may not apply.
    3.3. Cadets must have a PEA of 2.4 or higher.
4. How to Apply:
    4.1. No later than January (fall exchange) and August (spring exchange) of each year, the
    exchange program manager holds a briefing on the exchange program and application
    procedures. Each cadet who wishes to apply for the program should do the following:
       4.1.1. Discuss his or her desire to participate in this program with their Academic
       Advisor in DF to verify course transfer, and he or she should also consult an AD advisor
       to discuss athletic eligibility concerns.
       4.1.2. Submit a military memorandum stating his or her desire to participate in the
       program. See Attachment 3 as a guide. Submit the memorandum to their Air Officer
       Commanding (AOC) no later than the date specified by their AOC.
       4.1.3. Discuss his or her desire to participate in this program with the AOC. Ask the
       AOC to submit a memorandum recommending him or her for participation in the
       program. The AOC should send the memorandum through the Group AOC to
       USAFA/CWTS to arrive no later than the date specified by the USAFA program
       manager. The memorandum must arrive at USAFA/CWTS with a copy of the cadet’s
       current Personnel Data Summary.
5. How to Select:
    5.1. The selection board consists of at least one officer representative (O-4 or above when
    possible) from USAFA/CWTS, USAFA/DFR, and USAFA/ADP. The USAFA/CWTS
    program manager acts as the board recorder and establishes the date, time, and place for the
    meeting. Usually the board will meet during March (fall exchange) and October (spring
    exchange). The board uses the following procedures:
       5.1.1. The board members will interview each applicant and review the applicant’s
       folder. The board members will assign a point value from 6 to 10 (6 is the least qualified
       and 10 is the best qualified).
USAFAI36-2001 31 MARCH 2010                                                                     9


       5.1.2. The board recorder compares point values and identifies applicants whose point
       values vary by 3 or more points. These applicants will be reevaluated in open discussion
       by the board and points adjusted if warranted.
       5.1.3. The board recorder totals the points and rank orders the folders according to the
       point totals. The board rank orders those applicants with identical totals in open
       discussion and consensus as necessary.
       5.1.4. Exchange slots will be awarded based on rank order and the cadet’s stated
       preference. Once the primary slots and predetermined number of alternates are filled, the
       board is complete. It is important to note that USAFA may ultimately send fewer cadets
       to participating host academies than the total number of exchange slots available if, based
       on the board results, the number of qualified cadets does not meet or exceed the total
       number of exchange slots available.
       5.1.5. The board recorder prepares an AF Form 1768 to coordinate the list with
       USAFA/AD, USAFA/DF, USAFA/CWTS, and then to USAFA/CW for approval. The
       AF Form 1768 is sent to HQ USAFA/CC for information. The results of the board are
       not released until after USAFA/CW approval.
6. Preparing Travel Orders. The program manager ensures travel orders are prepared, through
DTS, for each cadet who participates in the Cadet Service Academy Exchange Program. The
program manager determines which travel arrangements are in the best interest of the
government and the cadet involved. Travel orders should normally be prepared by 1 May and
1 December of each year. Cadets will file a travel voucher within 5 workdays after their return
to USAFA.
7. Complying with Uniform Requirements. USAFA Cadet Service Academy Exchange
cadets ensure they have all necessary items listed in Attachment 2. All items must be in
serviceable condition and, as a minimum, one complete service uniform and one complete set of
Battle Dress Uniforms (BDU)/Airman Battle Uniform (ABU) must be in the cadets’ possession
when they arrive at their host academy. The remaining items may be shipped with their personal
property. The program manager may amend this list in specific instances after coordinating with
the host academy. USAFA-distinctive items are unavailable at the host academy. Cadets must
coordinate replacement of lost or damaged items through the host exchange program manager.
The equivalent uniform chart in AFCWMAN 36-3501, Cadet Sight Picture, will be used for
determining the proper uniform to wear when the host academy prescribes specific uniforms for
their formations.
8. Transporting Excess Baggage. USAFA Cadet Service Academy Exchange cadets are
authorized reimbursement of excess baggage when traveling by commercial air transportation.
The program manager, in coordination with the Joint Personal Property Shipping Office, may
establish additional procedures to ship personal property. Cadets are authorized to ship up to 350
pounds of personal property.
9. Arranging Field Trips. The USAFA program manager may arrange one or more field trips
for the visiting exchange cadets and midshipmen to expose them to different Air Force missions.
Request for excusal from academic, athletic, and military training is submitted to the Scheduling
Committee, via CAMIS electronic USAFA Form 17, Request for USAFA Scheduling Committee
Action, for final approval/disapproval.
10                                                        USAFAI36-2001 31 MARCH 2010


10. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
     10.1. Prescribed Forms:
No forms are prescribed by this publication.
     10.2. Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet (SSS)
USAFA Form 17, Request for USAFA Scheduling Committee Action




                                               SAMUEL D. COX, Brig Gen, USAF
                                               Commandant of Cadets
USAFAI36-2001 31 MARCH 2010                                  11


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABU— Airman Battle Uniform
AOC— Air Officer Commanding
BDU— Battle Dress Uniform
CAMIS— Cadet Administrative Management Information System
COSAS— Conference of Service Academy Superintendents
GPA— Grade Point Average
LES— Leave and Earnings Statement
MPA— Military Performance Average
NCAA— National Collegiate Athletic Association
PE— Physical Education
PEA— Physical Education Average
USAFA— United States Air Force Academy
USCGA— United States Coast Guard Academy
USMA— United States Military Academy
USNA— United States Naval Academy
12                                                          USAFAI36-2001 31 MARCH 2010


                                         Attachment 2
           SERVICE ACADEMY EXCHANGE PROGRAM CLOTHING LIST

2 sets BDUs/ABUs                 1 Insignia, cap                2 pr Shoes, low quarter, black
1 Belt, BDU/ABU, w/buckle        2 pr Insignia, US              2 pr Shorts, USAFA
1 Belt, parade, white            1 Jacket, field                1 pr Shower sandals
2 Belts, service, w/buckle       1 Jacket, parade, blue         1 pr Slippers
1 pr Boots, combat               2 Jackets, athletic, blue      + pr Socks, athletic
1 Cap, BDU/ABU                   1 set, Running Suit, USAFA     + pr Socks, nylon/cotton
1 Cap, parade, dress             1 Overcoat, blue               2 pr Socks, thermal
1 Cap, watch, black              1 pr Overshoes, rubber         + pr Socks, varsity-crew, black
2 Caps, flight, blue             2 pr Pajamas (optional)        + pr Socks, wool, boot
2 Caps, service, blue            + Panties/briefs               1 Sweat suit
2 Coats, service (all weather)   1 Parka                        1 Swimsuit
1 Cover, cap, rain               5 Patches, USAFA               2 Tabs/Ties service, blue
1 Flight suit                    + Prop and Wings               2 pr Trouser blouses
1 pr Gloves, black leather       1 Robe, bath, USAFA            2 pr Trousers, parade, dress, white
1 pr Gloves, utility             1 Scarf, wool, gray            3 pr Trousers, service, blue (AW)
2 pr Gloves, white, cotton       1 pr Shoes, all purpose        6 T-shirts, USAFA, personalized
1 Raincoat (modified to wear     1 pr Shoes, basketball         1 set Name tag, flying suit, w/tape
cadet raincoat epaulets)         2 pr Shoulder boards           3 pr Shoulder marks (1 raincoat set)
6 Shirts/Overblouses, service,   (C/MSgt)                       4 Shirts, service, blue, long-sleeved
blue, short-sleeved              + pr Shoe trees
1 Scarf, flight, class color     (for all mil shoes)

Additional Items for Women Only:
+ Bras
+ pr Pantyhose
1 Skirt, service
1 pr Shoes, plain pump, black patent or blk smooth leather, closed toe and heel

Additional Items for Men Only:
1 set Cuff links, silver, plain
1 set Cuff links, silver, Coat of Arms
+ T-shirts, underwear, v-neck
+ Supporters, athletic
+: Denotes quantity as needed
AW: All weather
USAFAI36-2001 31 MARCH 2010                      13


                              Attachment 3
                 SAMPLE APPLICATION MEMORANDUM
