BY ORDER OF THE                                            HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 47-101

                                                                               30 JULY 2010
                                                 Incorporating Change 1, 27 SEPTEMBER 2012

                                                                                 Dental Services

                                                                   BASE DENTAL SERVICES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 DS/SGD                                                           Certified by: 10 DS/CC
                                                                         (Col Nancy C. Motyka)
Supersedes:   USAFAI47-101, 5 May 2005                                                   Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 47-1, Dental Services, and
references Air Force Instruction (AFI) 47-101, Managing Air Force Dental Services and AFI 41-
210, Tricare Operations and Patient Administration Functions, by identifying procedures for
providing dental care, attendance requirements, and priority of care. This instruction applies to
personnel permanently or temporarily assigned to the United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA) and to other eligible beneficiaries. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and
conflicts between this and other publications to 10 DS/SGD, 2355 B Faculty Drive, USAF
Academy CO 80840, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in
accordance with the AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the certifying, approving, and adds Attachment 1. It also updates
paragraph 4.1.3. A margin bar (|) indicates revisions from the previous edition.
1. Responsibilities of the 10 DS Dental Services:
   1.1. Determine dental classification of each cadet upon entry; establish an individual
   schedule for each cadet to attain Class 1 dental readiness by the end of their fourth year.
 2                                                                USAFAI47-101 30 JULY 2010


     1.2. Maintain the oral health of assigned active duty personnel ensuring their dental
     readiness for worldwide deployment.
        1.2.1. Establish a preventive dentistry culture among Cadets as well as AFA educators
        and leadership to ensure optimum dental health for themselves and their subordinates.
     1.3. Provide ongoing training to ensure staff personnel are ready to deploy in support of
     Expeditionary Medical Support (EMEDS) and humanitarian medical missions.
2. How We Provide Dental Care:
     2.1. The Dental Squadron Commander (DS/CC) under the direction of the 10th Medical
     Group Commander, manages and administers the 10 DS to sustain the dental health of cadets
     and active duty personnel assigned to USAFA.
     2.2. The 10 DS/CC serves as the official custodian of the dental health records. Although
     dental health records belong to the US Air Force, they may be released to certain individuals
     under specific circumstances (see AFI 41-101 and AFI 47-101).
     2.3. Individuals alerted for permanent change of station assignment to remote tours, isolated
     areas or geographically separated units, whether Continental United States (CONUS) or
     Overseas (OCONUS), must report to their clinic of assignment within 90 days of their initial
     relocation briefing by the Military Personnel Flight (MPF). This time limit provides for a
     clearance examination and timely completion of required care.
     2.4. Active duty members may be referred to private sector dentists for specific dental
     procedures as directed by the 10 DS/CC when access to care exceeds 21 days for general
     dentistry care or 30 days for specialty care. This care is paid for by Active Duty Dental Plan
     (ADDP) funds and only treatment specified by the 10 DS will be reimbursed by ADDP.
     2.5. Squadron commanders and supervisors assure that patients meet appointments and help
     coordinate scheduling of periodic dental examinations.
3. Priority of Care:
     3.1. Emergency patients and patients in need of immediate attention to address pain, oral
     infections or bleeding.
     3.2. Rated, special operational duty personnel, and personnel on mobility status or selected
     for remote assignment who are in dental Class 3 or 4 (see AFI 47-101).
     3.3. Cadets and active duty military personnel.
     3.4. Certain designated civilian employees stationed overseas, traveling in temporary duty
     (TDY) status.
     3.5. If scheduling and staffing permit, 10 DS/CC may authorize care for the following
     patients on a standby basis:
        3.5.1. Family members of active duty personnel not enrolled in the Family Member
        Dental Plan (FMDP).
        3.5.2. Retired military and their dependents.
        3.5.3. Other categories of personnel authorized to receive care by law (US Code, Title
        10).
USAFAI47-101 30 JULY 2010                                                                     3


4. How and Where to Find Dental Care:
   4.1. Treatment Locations, Hours, Access and Appointment Procedures:
      4.1.1. Academy Dental Clinic (Fairchild East). USAFA cadets and active duty military
      personnel referred for general dentistry and specialty care must use the Academy Dental
      Clinic for all dental treatment (both routine and emergencies), occurring during normal
      duty hours, 0700-1600, Monday through Friday. Retired military personnel may seek
      standby and emergency care. Call or report to the clinic during duty hours for routine
      and emergency care (333-5192).
      4.1.2. 10 MDG Oral Surgery Clinic. This clinic provides outpatient oral and
      maxillofacial surgical services upon referral and limited diagnostic services. Call during
      duty hours, 0700-1600, Monday through Friday, to obtain an appointment (333-5076).
      4.1.3. Emergency Dental Treatment after Normal Duty Hours. Emergency dental
      treatment for patients to relieve acute pain, control bleeding and manage acute infection
      or injury to the oral or facial structures is available at all times. During normal duty
      hours, bona fide emergencies are seen at the Academy Dental Clinic. After duty hours
      and on non-duty days and holidays, obtain emergency dental care by calling 719-524-
      2273 and select the option for the on-call dentist.
   4.2. When and How to Schedule Dental Examinations and Appointments:
      4.2.1. USAFA Cadets. The Academy Dental Clinic schedules cadet examinations by
      year-groups depending on academic schedules, graduation requirements, special events,
      etc. The dental clinic initiates examination process through the Cadet Administrative
      Management Information System.
      4.2.2. Active Duty Personnel. 10 DS/SGDD coordinates with each organization’s
      healthcare monitor to implement the Air Force Dental Readiness Assurance Program
      (AFDRAP). This program provides the active duty Air Force member a periodic dental
      examination and, if necessary, a Dental Prophylaxis (cleaning). Each month the 10 DS
      advises each unit’s AFDRAP monitor which unit members are due for periodic exams.
      Unit Commanders are to ensure maximum participation. The dental AFDRAP monitors
      report participation rates to the 10 DS Dental Executive Function.
      4.2.3. Family Members of Active Duty Personnel. Family members of active duty
      personnel not enrolled in the FMDP may receive dental care at the Academy Dental
      Clinic on a standby basis or as a teaching case for the Advanced Education in General
      Dentistry (AEGD) residency program.
      4.2.4. FMDP. Patients enrolled in the FMDP may receive emergency treatment and
      treatment not covered by the plan on a stand-by basis only.
         4.2.4.1. Verification of Enrollment. The Clinic must verify enrollment through the
         Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System (DEERS) or by viewing the
         sponsor's Leave and Earnings Statement (LES). Use of the LES for verification must
         be voluntary on the part of the sponsor.
         4.2.4.2. Billing. The 10 MDG Resource Management Office bills anyone not
         eligible for services who through administrative error receives dental care at the
         dental clinic. Cases of this nature will be identified and managed as pay patients and
 4                                                                 USAFAI47-101 30 JULY 2010


            billed at the full outpatient reimbursement rate. Third party liability cases will be
            appropriately identified and billed.
        4.2.5. Retired Military Personnel and Their Family Members. Eligible retired members
        of the uniformed services and their family members may receive routine standby and
        emergency care subject to mission requirements, staff capabilities, facilities, and
        equipment or as teaching cases in the AEGD residency program.
        4.2.6. Other Beneficiaries. Other beneficiaries not eligible for routine dental treatment
        may be provided emergency care.
     4.3. Broken and Canceled Dental Appointments. A dental appointment is a military
     formation and has priority over routine duties. Patients failing to report at their appointed
     time are charged with a broken appointment. Patients should notify the dental clinic at least
     24 hours in advance if unable to keep an appointment. In unusual circumstances when fewer
     than 24 hours remain before the appointment, patients must cancel as soon as possible so
     other patients may be scheduled and valuable professional treatment time maximized.
5. Preventive Dentistry Program. This program aims to prevent, control and eliminate oral
disease and to maintain the highest possible level of oral health in active duty Air Force
personnel and other beneficiaries. It has two phases:
     5.1. Clinical Phase:
        5.1.1. A periodic dental examination and cleaning for all assigned military personnel and
        cadets.
        5.1.2. Identify dental patients at high risk for caries infection and provide individual oral
        health counseling, timely intervention and appropriate follow up monitoring.
        5.1.3. Applying approved topical anti-cariogenic agents (fluoride) prescribed by a
        dentist.
        5.1.4. Fabricating mouth guards for all cadets and custom-fitted mouth guards upon
        request for those participating in contact sports.
     5.2. Community Health Phase:
        5.2.1. Wide publicity to educate the base populace to dental health and increase public
        awareness of oral disease prevention.
        5.2.2. The Preventive Dentistry Officer initiates local special interest programs in
        conjunction with nationally organized dental-related campaigns. Whenever possible,
        he/she coordinates community health activities with the 10 MDG.
        5.2.3. 10 DS promotes and supports oral health programs in schools and in the child care
        centers and participates in nationally recognized programs, such as National Children's
        Dental Health Month.
        5.2.4. The Preventive Dentistry Officer may be tasked to perform dental evaluations on
        suspected abused or neglected children referred from the 10 MDG.
6. DELETED. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
USAFAI47-101 30 JULY 2010                                   5




                            TIMOTHY D. BALLARD, Col, USAF
                            Commander, 10th Medical Group
 6                                                           USAFAI47-101 30 JULY 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 41-210, Tricare Operations and Patient Administration Functions
AFI 47-101, Managing Air Force Dental Services
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 47-1, Dental Services
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
