BY ORDER OF THE                                           HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                           ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-2401

                                                                         14 NOVEMBER 2013
                                                            Certified Current on 18 March 2014
                                                                                     Personnel

                                                  MILITARY PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/CWVV                                                     Certified by: USAFA/CWV
                                                                             (Col Dale Holland)
Supersedes:   USAFAI36-2401,                                                          Pages: 36
              10 January 2010


This instruction implements guidance to Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-24, Military
Evaluations. It prescribes United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) responsibilities for all
mission partners (MP) to provide cadet feedback and procedures for the administration of the
Military Performance Appraisal (MPA) and the MPA Application in the Cadet Administrative
Information System (CAMIS). This Instruction applies to all personnel who evaluate and/or
provide feedback to cadets on their aptitude for commissioned service and officership potential.
AFPD 36-24 should be reviewed by all USAFA personnel needing further guidance on the cadet
evaluation system. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision is
structured to more closely resemble the Air Force feedback and Officer Performance Report
process. Under this rewrite, the Air Officer Commanding (AOC) assigns cadets in their
squadron a ranking among their peers based on inputs from the cadet’s chain of command and
MPs who have an impact on the cadet’s development. MP input is not required but highly
encouraged and left up to the discretion of senior leadership in respective MP organization.
 2                                                                            USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


Cadet MPAs are determined by the 1-N list the AOC inputs to CAMIS. This list is forced onto
normally distributed curve centered on a standard mean.

        1.     INTRODUCTION. ................................................................................................            2
Figure 1.      MPA Competencies by Class Year. .......................................................................                   3
        2.     ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES. ....................................................................                          3
        3.     COMPONENTS OF THE SEMESTER MPA. .....................................................                                     7
Table 1.       Subjective/Objective Evaluation Percentages. .......................................................                      8
        4.     MPA PROGRAM EXECUTION. .........................................................................                          9
        5.     POST-SUBJECTIVE GRADING. ........................................................................                        12
        6.     EXCEPTIONAL PROGRAMS. ............................................................................                       12
        7.     DEFICIENCIES. ....................................................................................................       12
        8.     APPEALS. .............................................................................................................   13

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                          15

Attachment 2—MPA TIMELINE                                                                                                               18

Attachment 3—ABBREVIATED ODS COMPETENCIES                                                                                               19

Attachment 4—COMPLETE LIST OF ODS COMPETENCIES AND BEHAVIORAL
             ANCHORS                                                                                                                    20

Attachment 5—OBJECTIVE RATING CRITERIA FOR EACH CLASS YEAR                                                                              33

Attachment 6—OBJECTIVE SCORING CONVERSIONS                                                                                              35


1. INTRODUCTION.
     1.1. Purpose. The purpose and intent of Military Performance Appraisal (MPA) process is
     to provide a systematic developmental and evaluation mechanism to develop cadets into
     officers of character and compare them to their peers.
        1.1.1. MPA process provides cadets a means to develop through feedback within their
        cadet chain, and also serves as an assessment tool measuring cadet performance and thus
        effectiveness in achieving USAFA Outcomes. MPA program is intentionally aligned
        with Officer Development System (ODS), United States Air Force Academy Pamphlet
        (USAFAPAM) 36-3527, The Officer Development Systems: Developing Leaders of
        Character and USAFA Institutional Competencies. Furthermore, it is integrated with
        Personal, Interpersonal, Team, Organizational (PITO) Model and Leadership Growth
        Model (LGM). MPA process is intended to be a developmental program for cadets and
        also serves as a mechanism to compare cadets to their peers in their squadron of
        assignment.
        1.1.2. MPA process runs over the course of an academic semester during the normal
        cadet academic year. Final output of this process each semester is a numerical MPA
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   3


       value on a 0.00 to 4.00 scale. MPA value has both objective and subjective components.
       Overall semester MPA values become part of each cadet’s permanent cadet record of
       performance and represent the military component of each cadet’s Overall Performance
       Average (OPA).
   1.2. Objective of MPA program is to help cadets internalize AF Core Values by providing
   cadets with an accurate reflection of their officership development, using feedback and the
   competency-based MPA process. A competency-based rating process ensures same standard
   for every cadet.
       1.2.1. Using graduated expectations of cadets as outlined by PITO model, MPA program
       progressively supports development of officership in each cadet. See figure 1.1, for
       MPA competencies by class year. As a cadet spends more time at USAFA, internalizing
       Core Values, he or she is expected to demonstrate more leadership/officership skills and
       qualities.
       1.2.2. MPA program cycle uses LGM tools of setting expectations, providing instruction,
       provision of feedback, and time for reflection to develop leadership capabilities of cadets.
       Each semester, LGM cycle will occur, with academic year being an annual LGM cycle,
       encompassing that class year’s portion of PITO model.

Figure 1. MPA Competencies by Class Year.




Graph visually depicts number and type of competencies by year group that are included in MPA
ratings. For example, all 4th-class competencies come from “P” or Personal component of the
PITO Model. In the 1st-class year, one competency encompasses the Personal components, two
encompass the Interpersonal components, three encompass the Teamwork components, and four
represent the Organization components. Specific competencies are listed in Attachments 3 and
described in detail in Attachment 4.
2. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   2.1. Line Roles and Responsibilities.
4                                                  USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


    2.1.1. Commandant of Cadets. Establish requirements for MPA System and ensure all
    USAFA MPs understand and support the MPA program. Serves as the rater and primary
    mentor for the Cadet Wing Commander, per Air Force Cadet Wing Instruction (AFCWI)
    38-101, Command Duties and Responsibilities, also serves as the reviewer and final MPA
    subjective ranking assigner for all cadets assigned to the Cadet Wing Staff each semester
    and assumes administrative command and control (ADCON) of all cadets assigned to the
    Cadet Wing Staff each semester.
    2.1.2. Group AOCs (GAOC). Responsible for oversight and administration of the
    semester MPA process for cadets temporarily assigned to them each semester on their
    respective Cadet Group Staffs. The Group AOC serves as the additional rater for their
    respective cadet group commanders and, IAW AFCWI 38-101, are their primary
    permanent party mentors. Group AOCs also serve as the reviewer and final MPA
    subjective ranking assigners for all cadets assigned to their respective Cadet Group Staff
    each semester. GAOCs will review and certify all appraisals for all cadets on their Cadet
    Group Staff each semester. Group AOCs assume ADCON of all cadets assigned to the
    Cadet Group Staff each semester.
    2.1.3. Squadron AOCs.         Squadron AOCs are responsible for oversight and
    administration of the semester MPA process for cadets assigned to their squadron.
    Squadron AOCs serve as the additional raters for their cadet squadron commanders and,
    IAW AFCWI 38-101, are their primary permanent party mentors. The Squadron AOC
    also serves as the reviewer and final MPA subjective ranking assigner for all cadets
    assigned to their squadron each semester. AOCs will review and certify all appraisals for
    all cadets under their command. Squadron AOCs retain ADCON of all cadets assigned
    to their squadron who are not assigned to Cadet Group or Cadet Wing staff each
    semester.
       2.1.3.1. Squadron AMTs. As enlisted mentors, AMTs are critical to the cadets’
       successful development through all stages of the PITO model. Also, the AMT is
       responsible for ensuring the squadron organizational structure is loaded correctly into
       the designated interface. AMTs will have CAMIS access that allows them to review
       appraisals for all cadets assigned to the squadron. AMTs are encouraged to submit
       external appraisals on any cadet within their assigned squadron, but they are not
       required to do so.
    2.1.4. Cadet Wing Chain of Command (CCoC). During the semester, each cadet
    supervisor, as outlined in AFCWI 38-101, Command Duties and Responsibilities, will
    provide at a minimum two developmental feedbacks (initial and midterm) and one final
    evaluation to each cadet whom they directly supervise in their squadron of assignment
    (See AFCWI 38-101, Attachment 1). Each cadet’s additional rater will review the
    evaluation of the cadet before it is sent to the AOC. The CCoC will base their feedbacks
    and assessment on actions observed on-duty in the squadron, group, or wing, and also
    off-duty when the cadet is not performing any official duty as outlined in the PITO
    model. This is to provide the CCoC first-hand understanding of the US Air Force whole-
    person concept, while giving the cadet a more accurate assessment to promote.
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              5


         2.1.4.1. Cadet Commanders (Wing, Group, and Squadron) shall provide their
         respective Communications Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO) a completed staffing
         spreadsheet prior to taking command.
         2.1.4.2. All cadet Communications NCOs will report for training for each semester’s
         transition days (see respective Operation Order (OPORD) for specific time and
         location) with a completed Squadron, Group, and Wing Staffing spreadsheet ready
         for input into CAMIS.
         2.1.4.3. All cadet raters throughout the process are required to be familiar with the
         MPA competencies so they may make informed ratings after long-term observations.
  2.2. Staff Roles and Responsibilities.
     2.2.1. Cadet Wing (CW) Standards & Evaluation (Stan/Eval). Stan/Eval serves as the
     OPR for the MPA program administration. As the OPR, Stan/Eval will:
         2.2.1.1. Develop, publish, and execute the MPA timeline, integrated with the
         USAFA master calendar. Stan/Eval has the authority to make timeline adjustments
         and execution of the USAFA Master Calendar events. See attachment 2 for MPA
         timeline.
         2.2.1.2. Develop and conduct required training for all permanent party raters and the
         cadet wing concerning the MPA process and procedures. Training will occur
         annually to capture new personnel and cadets, and by semester for each new cadet
         Communications NCO. Stan/Eval will train MP representatives who will act as
         POCs and will be responsible for training their respective organizations.
         2.2.1.3. Review and revise AFCWI 38-101, Command Duties and Responsibilities,
         to ensure that cadet squadrons, groups, and wing are properly aligned and rating
         chains mirror operational Air Force rating chains. Ensure Cadet Squadron
         Communication non-commissioned officers (NCOs) accurately input positions into
         CAMIS.
         2.2.1.4. Establish a “help desk” function to answer process, procedural, or technical
         questions.
         2.2.1.5. Identify and ensure training of an MPA Process Owner.
         2.2.1.6. Coordinate program reports with system managers for use in determining
         trends and issues with a particular competency or rating chain.
         2.2.1.7. Ensure all raters are informed of whom they will be evaluating, when
         specific inputs are required, and the due date for completion of the process. The
         system is designed to maximize inputs for each cadet while minimizing the impact of
         additional workload on MP participants.
         2.2.1.8. Tailor statistical data reports with CAMIS Program Management Office
         (PMO) per Cadet Wing Training Support Division (CWTM) change requests
         2.2.1.9. Establish and maintain a MPA Sustainment Team designed to address
         systemic issues as they arise and gather input from the cadet wing (cadets and
         permanent party). Members will include four AOCs (two 1st-year; two 2nd-year),
         four Academy Military Trainers (AMTs) (one per group), the MPA Process Owner,
6                                                      USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


           four cadets (one Sq/CC at large per group), a CAMIS PMO representative, and
           Stan/Eval as the chairperson. The Behavioral Sciences and Leadership Department
           (DFBL) will serve as an advisor to the team, as needed. HQ USAFA A5/A9 will
           serve as an advisor to the team, in an institutional integrator role (A5D) and program
           assessment role (A9) as needed. Sustainment Team membership covers the academic
           year.
           2.2.1.10. Coordinate an MPA Process Review Board, chaired by Commandant of
           Cadets Chief, Current Operations (CWVV), twice per year to discuss the process, the
           system, data trends, and other related topics for program improvement. Members will
           include, but are not limited to two of the four Group AOCs, two AOCs (mix of one
           1st-year and one 2nd-year AOC; not already Sustainment Team members), an
           Athletic Department (AD) Rep, a Dean of Faculty (DF) Rep, a 306 Flying Training
           Group (FTG) rep, Stan/Eval, a Center for Character and Leadership Development
           (CWC) rep, and CAMIS PMO.
       2.2.2. CWC. Develop and implement curriculum that equips the cadet chain of
       command with developmental coaching and feedback skills. Integrate the PITO model
       developmental outcomes into this training for cadets (ref attachment 4).
       2.2.3. HQ USAFA A5/A9. Review and revise as necessary the competencies and
       behavioral anchors described in Attachment 4 of this instruction in relation to the
       umbrella ODS. Assess the structure of the competencies for each class and evaluate the
       effectiveness of the MPA program in providing feedback and supporting the development
       of cadets into officers of character. Serves as advisors to the MPA Sustainment team.
       2.2.4. Cadet Wing Training Scheduling Division (CWTS). Allocate sufficient time for
       cadets to implement MPA milestones located in Attachment 2 into the Cadet Military
       Training Schedule (CMTS). Specifically, the CMTS must provide time for: initial
       feedback, mid-term feedback, rater appraisal inputs into CAMIS, additional rater inputs
       into CAMIS, AOC review and certification and final appraisal debriefs between raters
       and subordinates.
    2.3. MP Roles and Responsibilities.
       2.3.1. Dean of Faculty (DF). The Dean of Faculty appoints a representative to oversee
       the program, including ensuring all faculty and staff receive training from Stan/Eval on
       providing feedback to the cadet’s chain of command. As a critical partner in
       implementing the Officer Development System in the classroom, DF faculty and staff
       feedback to the cadet chain of command helps to paint a more complete picture of cadet
       military performance. The Dean of Faculty will establish a DF-wide policy that
       encourages a maximum level of effective faculty and staff-generated feedback on cadets.
       This feedback may range from minimal (e.g., submission of quick, event driven
       comments) to full Likert Scale assessments of the cadets in a particular section, course or
       department. The MPA System will not generate lists of cadets for receipt of this
       feedback. Instead, the MPA System will be open to all officer developers throughout the
       semester, allowing the flexibility for assessments and feedback submissions on any cadet
       in the Cadet Wing at any time prior to M32 each semester. All feedback shall be based
       on the competencies (displayed within the mentors’ scope of observation) listed in
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                               7


     CAMIS. The MPA feedback should be construed as generally independent from
     academic performance.
     2.3.2. Director of Athletics, Athletic Department (AD). The Director of Athletics
     appoints a representative to oversee the program, including ensuring training is
     accomplished by Stan/Eval on providing feedback to a cadet’s chain of command. This
     feedback is voluntary, although the Director of Athletics may require it if desired. All
     feedback shall be based on the competencies (displayed within the mentors’ scope of
     observation) listed in CAMIS. The MPA feedback should be construed as generally
     independent from athletic performance.
     2.3.3. 306 FTG Commander (306 FTG/CC). The 306 FTG/CC appoints a representative
     to oversee the program, including ensuring squadron commanders receive training from
     Stan/Eval on providing feedback to a cadet’s chain. This feedback is voluntary, although
     the 306th may require it if desired. All feedback shall be based on the competencies
     (displayed within the mentors’ scope of observation) listed in CAMIS.
     2.3.4. Mission Clubs (MC). MCs are cadet clubs that enhance the mission of USAFA
     (Chorale, Drum & Bugle, Falconry, Forensics, Honor Guard, Media, Prior Enlisted Cadet
     Assembly, Rattex, Saber Drill, Soaring and the Flying Team). The officer in charge
     (OIC) of the MC may complete feedback for assigned cadets and are to provide this
     feedback based on the competencies (displayed within the mentors’ scope of observation)
     listed in CAMIS.
     2.3.5. Other USAFA Permanent Party Not Listed Above. USAFA faculty and staff may
     request to provide a cadet feedback as an optional mentor. The MPA Process Owner will
     validate that the cadet falls within the optional mentor’s purview. If not, any permanent
     party member may submit input directly to the AOC/AMT identifying the applicable
     competencies observed.
     2.3.6. All officer-developers, regardless of MP, are responsible to implement the MPA
     program as intended and required to attend at least one MPA training event annually. All
     officer developers throughout the process are responsible for reading this instruction and
     understanding the intent of the MPA program. Cadet developers are required to be
     familiar with the MPA competencies so they may make informed ratings after long-term
     observations.
     2.3.7. CAMIS Program Management Office (PMO). The CAMIS PMO shall work with
     CW to ensure CAMIS effectively automates the MPA process as much as possible.
3. COMPONENTS OF THE SEMESTER MPA.
  3.1. The semester MPA score is composed of subjective and objective components. The
  weighting of subjective and objective components varies by class year as reflected in Table 1
  below. The increasing weight of the subjective component as cadets progress through the
  four-class system is intentional and maintains alignment with the PITO developmental
  model.
 8                                                      USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013




Table 1. Subjective/Objective Evaluation Percentages.
                                                            CE
          Subjective            Objective                                           Total
                                                      (if completed)
1°           80%               10% or 20%                   10%                     100%
2°           70%               15% or 30%                   15%                     100%
3°           60%               20% or 40%                   20%                     100%
4°           50%               25% or 50%                   25%                     100%
        3.1.1. Semester MPA Subjective Rating. The subjective component is a qualitative
        assessment by each cadet’s rater and additional rater, informed by feedback submitted by
        MPs, which is reviewed and certified by the AOC. The subjective MPA rating is
        calculated based on the AOC’s final ranking of each cadet versus their peers in the
        squadron, as described in Section 4 below.
        3.1.2. Semester MPA Objective Rating. The purpose of this component of the MPA is to
        support an objective evaluation of cadet performance, which gives cadets direct control
        over a portion of their MPA rating in a given semester (see Attachment 5). The MPAs
        are derived by the cadets’ squadron AOC’s ratings being applied onto a normally-
        distributed curve. This is a forced distribution done in CAMIS.
            3.1.2.1. End-of-semester Commissioning Education (CE) class scores will count for
            a percentage of the cadet’s overall MPA rating in accordance with Table 1 above in
            the semester the class year is assigned CE. A passing grade will be 70% or above,
            and the rating scale will mirror the 4.00 academic scale. Each cadet must re-take the
            class until a passing score is achieved; however, only the first class score will count
            toward the MPA.
            3.1.2.2. All other objective scores (AM Inspection, Saturday AM Inspection,
            Personal Appearance Inspection) will count for a percentage of the cadet’s overall
            MPA rating in accordance with Table 1 above (see Attachment 6).
            3.1.2.3. Squadron Major Training Events (MTE).          All cadets will receive their
            respective squadron’s score for each semester MTE.
            3.1.2.4. Charge of Quarters (CQ) Inspections. All 3rd-class cadets will receive their
            respective squadron’s average CQ inspection score. The Cadet Wing Command
            Chief will compile CQ Inspections from Squadron Stan/Eval Officers each semester
            and provide them to Stan/Eval for input into CAMIS.
     3.2. MPA Rating Scale. The 4.00 rating system corresponds to the Grade Point Average
     (GPA) model and is used to give consistency to the MPAs. A rating of 4.00 is the maximum
     and a rating of 0.00 is the minimum. The grading criteria is set by MPA behavioral anchors
     as identified by ODS competencies (See attachments 3 and 4).
        3.2.1. Subjective MPA Rating Scale. The final subjective score is calculated after each
        AOC assigns their cadets a ranking versus peers in their squadron. Based on these
        rankings, the cadets in each squadron will be assigned an MPA along a forced normal
        distribution between 2.00 and 4.00, centered on mean of 3.00. Subjective MPA scores
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                  9


       will be calculated using a Normal Distribution Curve (a.k.a., Bell Curve). Each squadron
       will start with the same 3.00 mean. Group and Wing Staff subjective MPAs will be
       generated by the same method; however, the scores will be normally distributed between
       2.50 and 4.00, centered on a mean of 3.25. Changes to a squadron’s mean subjective
       MPA may be applied at the Commandant’s discretion.
       3.2.2. Cadets on Probation or otherwise not meeting military standards will receive a
       “Referral Report” for that semester. The squadron AOC will manually flag referral
       reports within the rank-ordered list of cadets defined in paragraph 3.2.1. This will
       automatically move those cadets to the bottom of the calculated subjective MPA list and
       the AOC will then assign an MPA of 1.90 or below.
   3.3. The Commandant’s List. The Commandant’s List is reserved for cadets achieving an
   overall semester MPA in the top one third by class year. They will retain this status until the
   end of the next academic semester IAW United States Air Force Academy Instruction
   (USAFAI) 36-3510, USAF Academy Cadet Program Recognizing Cadet Achievement, (see
   exceptions in USAFAI 36-3523, Review and Disposition of Deficient Cadets, Para 1.1.1. and
   USAFAI 36-3510, USAF Academy Cadet Program Recognizing Cadet Achievement, Para
   4.1.).
4. MPA PROGRAM EXECUTION. The term “MPA program” is overarching and is
designed to meet the purpose and objectives outlined in paragraph 1 of this instruction. The
program has two main phases: developmental and evaluative. The developmental phase will be
accomplished in the cadet wing chain of command over the course of a semester and is
augmented by permanent party assigned as raters or additional raters of cadets IAW AFCWI 38-
101. The end of semester evaluation phase is initially accomplished by raters and additional
raters. The final aspect of the evaluation phase is completed by the squadron AOC, who serves
as the reviewing official for all cadets under her/her command and who assigns and certifies final
subjective rankings. Based upon the AOC’s certified subjective rankings, subjective MPA
scores will be calculated as described above in paragraph 3.2.1 Each cadet’s subjective and
objective MPA values will then be combined IAW Table 1 to determine the final semester MPA.
   4.1. Developmental Feedback.The developmental phase of the MPA process is designed to
   help each cadet to receive feedback on their performance in terms of a specific set of
   competencies and to increase self-awareness about how his/her performance is perceived by
   their chain of command. The competencies outlined in Attachments 3 and 4 provide the
   cadet with a baseline of what is expected of an officer candidate of character at each level of
   development and are directly related to the officer competencies outlined in Air Force
   Doctrine Document 1-1, Leadership and Force Development. The cadet’s immediate
   supervisor (see AFCWI 38-101, Attach 1) will conduct formal feedback sessions and will set
   expectations consistent with the class-based ODS competencies listed in Attachments 3 and
   4.
       4.1.1. Fall and Spring Initial Feedback. Commander and supervisor expectations are set
       during the Initial Feedback Session early in the semester where MPA competencies are
       reviewed to provide initial direction for cadets. This session sets expectations based on
       the 10 competencies of the respective class year and linked to the cadet’s job. This
       feedback will be conducted face-to-face, documented, and available for viewing by the
       cadet’s chain of command in CAMIS.
10                                                    USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


     4.1.2. Fall and Spring Mid-Semester Feedback. The cadet will receive mid-semester
     feedback from their immediate supervisor, creating the opportunity for the cadet to make
     course corrections prior to being evaluated at the end of each semester. This is intended
     to give the cadets a mid-semester update on where they stand with regards to the 10
     competencies. The supervisor must link the 10 competencies with the cadet’s duty
     performance (job-specific or otherwise). This feedback will be conducted face-to-face,
     documented, and available for viewing by the cadet’s chain of command in CAMIS.
     4.1.3. Performance Feedback Worksheet (PFW). The information will be summarized in
     an MPA PFW. Both the supervisor and cadet will digitally sign and a copy will be
     maintained in the CAMIS. Feedback is built from the 10 competencies, respective to
     class year. A copy of the PFW will be filed in each cadet’s personnel records until
     graduation. If the cadet has concerns, he/she is encouraged to talk to their cadet chain of
     command.
  4.2. End-of-Semester Subjective Appraisals. The end-of-semester subjective appraisals will
  be evaluative and will count towards the subjective component of the final semester MPA.
     4.2.1. Cadet Raters and Additional Raters. The subjective appraisal process is the
     primary responsibility of each cadet’s rater and additional rater, with the squadron AOC
     serving as the reviewing official and stratification certifier. Raters and additional raters
     will evaluate their assigned subordinate’s performance on the 10 developmental
     competencies for their respective class year via Likert-scale ratings and qualitative
     comments. Raters and additional raters are required to provide at least one (1)
     descriptive comment supporting their Likert-scale appraisals on each of the 10
     developmental competencies. In addition to these qualitative appraisals, the cadet
     supervisor provides a stratification of the cadets versus their peers under their
     supervision. If the supervisor only supervises one (1) cadet of a particular class year, then
     stratification is not required.
     4.2.2. MPs. USAFA faculty and staff members who interact with cadets throughout the
     semester also have the opportunity to provide feedback on a cadet’s performance to their
     chain of command. Sources for MP feedback include: DF instructors, CW permanent
     party members who directly interact with the cadet, AD coaches, 306 FTG commanders,
     coaches, and instructors, and any optional rater. If provided, this MP feedback will be
     viewable by cadet, cadet’s rater, additional rater, and AOC/AMT.
     4.2.3. Squadron AOCs. Serves as reviewer and certifier for end of semester subjective
     appraisals for all cadets assigned.
         4.2.3.1. By M32 of each semester, squadron AOCs will review qualitative appraisals
         from each cadet’s rater and additional rater as well as any MP feedback. AOCs shall
         consider stratification lists by class year based on the qualitative appraisals and
         recommended stratifications of raters from their chain of command.
         4.2.3.2. Next, the squadron AOC determines the final subjective ranking of each
         cadet versus his/her peers in the squadron based upon: the aforementioned
         aggregated performance on the 10 developmental competencies as evaluated by the
         cadet’s rater and additional rater; the descriptive comments from the cadet’s rater and
         additional rater; any MP feedback; and any other information related to cadet
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                11


        performance (e.g., letters of appreciation, recognition, awards, probations, Squadron
        Commander Review Board minutes, Forms 10, and administrative actions). If there
        is a significant variation in the evaluations of a given cadet’s performance, the AOC
        will analyze the sources’ inputs and/or comments. If concerns exist, the AOC will
        communicate with the source to gain necessary understanding or clarification.
        4.2.3.3. Squadron AOCs are responsible for assigning final subjective rankings of
        cadets versus peers within their cadet squadron. For cadets assigned to Cadet Group
        Staff positions, the respective Group AOC is responsible for assigning Group Staff
        subjective rankings versus peers on the Group Staff. For cadets assigned to Cadet
        Wing Staff positions, the Commandant of Cadets is responsible for assigning Cadet
        Wing Staff subjective rankings versus peers on the Wing Staff.
        4.2.3.4. After the squadron AOC reviews the qualitative appraisals for each cadet and
        clarifies any concerns about ratings, the AOC determines the final stratification list
        for each class of cadets in the squadron. The AOC may move any cadet up or down
        in stratification based on his/her professional judgment and at his/her sole discretion.
        There is no limit on the amount of positions the AOC may move a given cadet. If an
        AOC moves a cadet in stratification, the AOC must provide justification to explain
        the reason for the movement. If a cadet’s performance is assessed as “deficient” for
        the rating period, the AOC will flag the cadet as having a “referral report.” By
        definition, a “referral report” is for a cadet whose performance is substandard (an
        MPA of 1.90 or below).
     4.2.4. Subjective MPA Assignment in CAMIS. After the squadron AOC has completed
     his/her rankings, the AOC certifies them as final in CAMIS. Through automation,
     CAMIS will assign actual subjective MPA numbers on a 2.00 to 4.00 scale to each cadet
     based on his/her ranking with respect to his/her classmates in the squadron. The mean
     subjective MPA for all cadet squadrons will be fixed at 3.00. Cadets will be assigned a
     subjective MPA number based on their ranking versus their peers in their squadron on a
     normal distribution along the 2.00 to 4.00 scale. Group and Wing staff will be subject to
     the same stratification process among members of their class on their respective staff.
     The mean MPA for Group and Wing staff will be 3.25, with MPAs normally distributed
     on a 2.50 to 4.00 scale.
     4.2.5. Semester MPA Calculation. The final semester MPA number for each cadet is the
     combination of the subjective MPA and the objective MPA as outlined in section 3
     above. Each cadet’s final MPA number will be reported on the final semester MPA
     evaluation form.
     4.2.6. End-of-Semester MPA Debrief. Each cadet’s final semester MPA is recorded on
     an MPA Performance Report. This report will include the Likert-scale assessments on
     each of the 10 developmental competencies by their rater and additional rater, as well as
     all supporting comments, to include those from MPs and (if applicable) the squadron
     AOC. Each cadet rater will be responsible for providing direct face-to-face feedback
     from the MPA Performance Report to their assigned subordinates prior to finals week.
     Feedback will focus on their performance on the 10 developmental competencies and
     how that led to their stratification versus their peers. Once complete, raters will sign and
     ensure subordinate signs the MPA Performance Report and provides it to the additional
12                                                    USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


     rater for review. After additional raters validate feedback was accomplished, they will
     sign the MPA Performance Report and deliver it to the squadron AOC. The squadron
     AOC will review all completed MPA Performance Reports to certify the final reports and
     sign them. Squadron AMTs may assist in this certification step as directed by their
     squadron AOC. Signed reports become part of each cadet’s official record.
5. POST-SUBJECTIVE GRADING.
  5.1. A cadet’s current cumulative MPA will be used by various selection boards (e.g., Air
  Force Specialty Code selection, and Euro-North Atlantic Treaty Organization Joint Jet Pilot
  Training) and to calculate Graduation Order of Merit. Only end-of-semester MPA ratings
  affect the cumulative MPA. Each semester’s MPA number counts equally towards a cadet’s
  cumulative MPA.
  5.2. Objective scores will only be applied after the subjective process is complete.
  5.3. For graduation, a cumulative rating of 2.00 is the minimum required.
6. EXCEPTIONAL PROGRAMS.
  6.1. Service/Foreign Academy Exchange Program MPA.
     6.1.1. AOCs shall evaluate all Cadets/Midshipmen from U.S. service academies on
     semester exchange to USAFA using their respective academy forms. USAFA/CWTS
     shall ensure AOCs have appropriate evaluation forms and forward completed copies to
     the respective service academy leadership.
     6.1.2. Four-year Foreign Academy Exchange Cadets will be included in the MPA
     process and will be rated IAW this instruction.
     6.1.3. USAFA cadets on Foreign Exchange for a semester will not receive an MPA for
     the semester they are absent from USAFA. Instead, they will receive their MPA score
     from the previous semester at USAFA unless extraordinary circumstances warrant
     assigning a different MPA. If the cadet is at another U.S. service academy, the cadet will
     receive the score from the previous semester or their cumulative MPA, whichever is
     higher. (See USAFAI 36-2001, Cadet Service Academy Exchange Program).
7. DEFICIENCIES.
  7.1. Deficient Ratings.
     7.1.1. An MPA score below 2.00 from the squadron AOC is substandard and is
     considered a Referral Report. The squadron AOC must manually assign a subjective and
     overall semester MPA below a 2.00 to this report in accordance with the guidelines in
     paragraph 7.2 below. Sustained or repetitive substandard performance may lead to
     disenrollment.
     7.1.2. Consecutive semesters below 2.00 will result in the cadet being placed on formal
     probation. The AOC will reference Cadet Disciplinary System (CDS) to place the cadet
     on Aptitude Probation or recommend to CWV that the cadet be placed on Aptitude
     Probation, if a 1st-class cadet. See Commandant of Cadet’s Instruction (CoCI) 51-201,
     Cadet Counseling, Discipline, Rehabilitation, and Monitoring, for details.
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                 13


   7.2. Guidelines for Deficient Semester MPA Rating.
       7.2.1. A rating between 1.60 and 1.90 indicates the AOC has confidence in the cadet’s
       ability to recover from his/her probationary period and satisfactorily meet all subsequent
       standards.
           7.2.1.1. Cadets on conduct, aptitude, or honor probation may not receive higher than
           a 1.90 overall assessment for the respective semester in which the infraction occurred.
       7.2.2. A rating of 1.50 or below indicates the AOC has doubts about the cadet’s ability or
       willingness to successfully complete their probation “rehabilitation” program or remain
       in good standing until graduation, once they have been removed from probation.
       7.2.3. An MPA of 0.00 indicates the AOC is recommending the cadet be dis-enrolled
       from the Academy.
       7.2.4. If the AOC is rating a cadet between 0.00 and 1.50, the AOC must consult with the
       Group AOC (GAOC) before making the appraisal final.
   7.3. Probations.
       7.3.1. Cadets awarded less than a 2.00 end-of-semester MPA will be placed on probation
       (refer to USAFAI 36-3523 for specific guidance).
8. APPEALS. Throughout the MPA cycle, the review process ensures numerous safeguards to
support the accuracy and fairness of the cadet ratings. Objective scores should be resolved
immediately. If the cadet does not agree with an objective score, the cadet has 5 duty days to
notify CW Stan/Eval through their chain of command. If a cadet feels their subjective evaluation
is unfair, they have 5 duty days following their primary rater’s debrief to compile the necessary
paperwork for review.
   8.1. Minimum Requirements. The following are the minimum requirements for review:
       8.1.1. A letter indicating the rating that is in question with documentation regarding
       specifically where the error occurred.
       8.1.2. A summary report of all inspections, if the appeal is about this component of the
       objective rating.
       8.1.3. The cadet’s Commissioning Education grade as recorded by the CW
       Commissioning Education Division, if the appeal is about this component of the
       objective rating.
       8.1.4. The cadet will provide letters of recommendation from instructors, coaches or
       classmates, if the appeal is about this component of the subjective rating.
   8.2. AOC Response. The AOC will respond to the package and meet with the cadet within 5
   duty days of package receipt. If the cadet’s issues are not resolved in meeting with the AOC,
   they may appeal to the Group AOC. The Group AOC is the final authority on the appeal.
   The Group AOC may address an appeal by: (a) making no change to the subjective MPA or
   (b) making a manual change to the cadet’s subjective MPA only, not to exceed 0.1 points. If
   a Group AOC elects to make such a change, this will have no effect on the rest of the MPAs
   for the affected cadet’s classmates in the squadron. Group AOCs are advised to use extreme
   caution in addressing an appeal via a manual override, as this inherently skews the 3.0 fixed
14                                                 USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


  means in each squadron and could affect Commandant’s List placement and other systems
  which use the MPA (i.e., OPA, Graduation Order of Merit, etc.). If changes are made, Group
  AOCs must contact Stan/Eval to ensure the MPA score is amended properly and all cadet
  electronic records are appropriately updated.




                                         MICHAEL C. GOULD
                                         Lieutenant General, USAF
                                         Superintendent
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                            15


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-24, Military Evaluations, 11 June 1993
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
USAFAPAM 36-3527, Officer Development System, 11 August 2008
AFCWI 38-101, Command Duties and Responsibilities, 6 February 2013
USAFAI 36-3510, USAF Academy Cadet Program Recognizing Cadet Achievement, 7 April
2005 (current 13 April 2012)
USAFAI 36-3523, Review and Disposition of Deficient Cadets, 23 April 2008
AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 8 November 2011
USAFAI 36-2001, Cadet Service Academy Exchange Program, 31 March 2010
CoCI 51-201, Cadet Counseling, Discipline, Rehabilitation, and Monitoring, 23 February 2009

Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AD—Athletic Department
ADCON—Administrative Control
AFCWI—Air Force Cadet Wing Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AMT—Academy Military Trainer
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
CAMIS—Cadet Administrative Information System
CCoC—Cadet Chain of Command
CE—Commissioning Education
CoCI—Commandant of Cadet Instruction
CMTS—Cadet Military Training Schedule
 16                                               USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


CQ—Charge of Quarters
CW—Cadet Wing
CWC—Center for Character and Leadership Development
CWTS—Cadet Wing Training Scheduling Division
CWV—Vice Commandant
CWVV—Chief, Current Operations
DF—Dean of Faculty
DFBL—Behavioral Sciences Department
FTG—Flying Training Group
GAOC—Group Air Officer Commanding
GPA—Grade Point Average
IAW—In Accordance With
LGM—Leadership Growth Model
MC—Mission Club
MP—Mission Partner
MPA—Military Performance Appraisal
MTE—Major Training Event
NCO—Non-Commissioned Officer
ODS—Officer Development System
OIC—Officer in Charge
OPA—Overall Performance Average
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OPORD—Operation Order
PFW—Performance Feedback Worksheet
PITO—Personal, Interpersonal, Teams, and Organizational
PMO—Program Management Office
RDS—Records Distribution Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFAPAM—USAFA Pamphlet
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                 17


Terms
Additional MPA Rater—Any rater other than the immediate supervisor with the authority to
evaluate a cadet’s officership performance. In almost all cases, the additional MPA rater will be
the immediate supervisor’s rater; however, for cadet commanders and cadets whose immediate
supervisor is a cadet commander, the additional MPA rater will be a USAFA/CW permanent
party member who has direct knowledge of the cadet’s performance in relation to their assigned
leadership position. For example, a Squadron AOC will serve as the additional rater for their
Cadet Squadron Commander, while the Cadet Group Commander serves as the primary rater.
Aptitude for Commissioned Service—The personality, capacity, and inclination to adapt to
military relationships, customs, and responsibilities which are necessary in military service; and
the strength of character and willingness to accept those limitations on freedom of individual
action which the structure and legal status of military service imposes upon its members.
Immediate Supervisor—The first cadet in the chain of command. The immediate supervisor
will be responsible to provide the initial feedback, mid-semester and end-of-semester/program
evaluation. For the cadet wing commander, the Commandant is the immediate supervisor.
Leadership Growth Model (LGM)—The model which defines the key relationships among
leaders, followers, and the situation in terms of a four-stage, continuous process using
expectations and inspiration, instruction and feedback, and reflection.
Military Probation—The status of a cadet who has demonstrated ongoing or multiple serious
deficiencies in aptitude for commissioned service or a cadet whose conduct has raised serious
doubt concerning qualification to remain a cadet, as determined by the cadet’s chain of
command. (Replaces Conduct and Aptitude Probation).
Military Review Committee—The MRC is a standing committee of the Academy Board. The
committee evaluates cadets who are deficient in military performance and/or aptitude for
commissioned service.
Objective Appraisal—That portion of an MPA which is based on total accumulated points for
inspections, test scores, and development of the assigned teams (i.e. element, flight, and
squadron).
Optional Rater—USAFA Permanent Party members (to include Mission Club OICs) that
provide evaluations over cadets within their purview.
Personal, Interpersonal, Teams, and Organizational Model (PITO)—Development model
used to build progressive competencies evolving all MPs at USAFA and encompass every
dimension of a cadet’s life—intellectual, professional, physical, ethical, spiritual and social—
while contribution to character development.
Subjective Evaluation—A numeric or written evaluation of a cadet’s military performance
relative to the criteria set within the core competencies on the subjective judgment of the rater.
The rater should consider all 10 competencies listed when appraising the performance of the
cadet and place a N/A when the competency is not observed.
        18                                                    USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


                                               Attachment 2
                                              MPA TIMELINE


Academic
                                      Fall and Spring Semester Milestones*                                 Due
  Day
             *Milestones identified in this chart are for a generic semester and are to be used as a
                                                                                                           M1 -
 M1 -2       guideline; establish a master calendar for all MPA-related events specific to each semester
                                                                                                            2
             prior to the start of each semester
 M1 -2       Communications NCOs input organizational staff/billeting                                      T1
  M2         Confirm with CAMIS PMO initial feedback notices are ready to be sent to primary raters        M2
  M3         Permanent Party cadet feedback forms are opened for users                                     M3
  M3         Initial feedback session notices sent to primary raters, feedback period commences            T5
  M5         Communications NCOs validate billeting assignments                                            T5
  M5         MPA Process Owner validates Late Grads and Exchange Program Duty Status                       M5
 M11         Confirm with CAMIS PMO mid-semester feedback notices are ready to be sent to                  M11
             primary raters
  M16        Mid-semester feedback session notices sent to primary raters, feedback period                 T18
             commences
  M24        Confirm with CAMIS PMO evaluation notices are ready to be sent to primary &                   M24
             additional raters
  M25        Evaluation notices sent to primary raters, evaluation period commences                        T31
  T27        Eval notices sent to additional raters, evaluation period commences                           T31
  M28        Stratification notices sent to element leaders (not applicable for group and wing             M28
             staff)
  T28        Element leaders stratify subordinates by class year. Stratification provided to               M30
             FLT/CC
  T30        Stratification notices sent to FLT/CCs and SQ/DO (also WG/CV, WG/DO, GRP/CD,                  T30
             and GRP/DO)
  M31        FLT/CCs & SQ/DO (also WG/CV, WG/DO, GRP/CD, and GRP/DO) stratify                              T33
             subordinates by class year. Stratification provided to SQ/CC, GRP/CC, and
             WG/CC
  M31        Cadet commanders stratify subordinates by class year                                          T31
  M31        MPA Process Owner validates probations                                                        M31
  M31        Confirm with CAMIS PMO evaluation and stratification notices are ready to be sent to          M31
             squadron AOCs (SQ AOCs, GRP AOCs, and CW/CC)
  M32        Squadron AOC reviews evaluations and probations, flags referrals, and assigns final           T36
             stratifications. After submittal, squadron AOC manually overrides to the referral
             reports
  M33        Commissioning Education Test scores complete (first test score only; no re-test scores)       M33
  T33        MPA Process Owner ensures all objective scores, including knowledge test, have been           T33
             submitted
  T35        All objective scores must be submitted                                                        T35
  T37        Calculate MPAs (CAMIS PMO)                                                                    M38
  T38        Confirm with CAMIS PMO that final performance report notices are ready to be sent to          T38
             primary raters, additional raters, and AOCs
  T38        Primary raters provide face-to-face feedback to subordinates, obtain signatures on            T40
             final appraisals
  T38        Appeals session starts                                                                        T40
                                                                                                           +5
     Note: Plain text denotes Stan/Eval duty, bold, indicates duties which belong to raters and ratees.
        USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                             19


                                                Attachment 3
                                 ABBREVIATED ODS COMPETENCIES

        Table A3.1. Abbreviated ODS Competencies.
    #          4th-class                    3rd-class                2nd-class              1st-class
              (Personal)                 (Interpersonal)            (Teamwork)           (Organizational)

1       Master primary duty      Master primary duty and         Perform as            Perform as polished
        skills                   leadership skills               polished role model   role model
2       Build personal           Use self-awareness to lead by   Serve as respectful   Serve as respectful
        awareness                example                         wingman               wingman
3       Learn about leadership   Internalize and demonstrate     Support standards     Express and show
        techniques               core values and AF culture      for professional      support for standards
                                                                 development           for professional
                                                                                       development
4       Hone followership        Enhance thinking/evaluative     Effectively           Focus team energy
                                 processes                       communicate           and direction
5       Assimilate AF            Demonstrate leadership          Apply team            Use effective
        culture/Core Values      decorum                         dynamics              decisions to get
                                                                                       results
6       Lead by example          Serve as wingman                Focus effort          Inspire capability
                                                                                       and teamwork
7       Effectively engage       Practice                        Practice effective    Influence element,
        thinking/evaluative      accountability/enforcement      decision-making       flight, squadron, and
        processes                                                                      wing policy
8       Display fortitude        Show respect for self and       Get results           Integrate efforts of
                                 others                                                smaller units to
                                                                                       broader objectives
9       Demonstrate              Effectively communicate         Empower and           Develop talent of
        composure and                                            inspire               others
        leadership presence
10      Practice adaptability    Coach others to develop and     Manage conflict       Exemplify and
                                 achieve personal objectives                           enforce high
                                                                                       professional and
                                                                                       moral standards
 20                                                   USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


                                        Attachment 4
      COMPLETE LIST OF ODS COMPETENCIES AND BEHAVIORAL ANCHORS

A4.1. ODS Competencies 7-Point Scale. All competencies below will be assessed via a 7-
point Likert scale (Never, Rarely, Sometimes, Half the time, Often, Almost Always, Always).
A4.2. 4th-class MPA.
   A4.2.1. Personal Competencies.
       A4.2.1.1. Master primary duty skills. USAFA Outcome 1.1.4; ODS 4-degree 1; AFI 36-
       2014. Quickly masters new skills; develops expertise; knows and follows standards;
       professional presentation—sharp appearance/bearing; practices customs and courtesies.
          A4.2.1.1.1. Demonstrates professional conduct.
          A4.2.1.1.2. Seeks responsibility.
          A4.2.1.1.3. Prompt completion of assigned tasks.
          A4.2.1.1.4. Sharp uniform and appearance.
          A4.2.1.1.5. Follows standards.
       A4.2.1.2. Build personal awareness. USAFA Outcomes 1.4.1, 1.4.2, 2.2.6; ODS 4-
       degree 2; AFI 36-2014 A2.1.4.1.1, A2.1.4.1.2.
          A4.2.1.2.1. Seeks and uses feedback to increase self-understanding; wants to develop
          and grow, demonstrates accurate self-image—performs self-assessment; aware of
          impact on others.
          A4.2.1.2.2. Asks for feedback.
          A4.2.1.2.3. Applies feedback to grow and develop.
          A4.2.1.2.4. Aware of how he/she impacts others.
       A4.2.1.3. Learn about leadership techniques USAFA Outcomes 2.1.06, 3.1.1, 3.4.2;
       ODS 4-degree 3; AFI 36-2014 A2.1.1.1.2.
          A4.2.1.3.1. Learns from others; continually increases breadth and knowledge about
          leadership.
          A4.2.1.3.2. Engages in learning about leadership outside of curriculum and daily
          tasks.
          A4.2.1.3.3. Associates with excellent role models.
          A4.2.1.3.4. Seizes opportunities and practices leadership techniques.
       A4.2.1.4. Hone followership USAFA Outcomes 1.3.2, 2.1.08, 2.7.3, 2.8.1; ODS 4-
       degree 4; AFI 36-2014 A2.1.2.1.3.
          A4.2.1.4.1. Displays critical/independent thought; appropriately offers unbiased
          advice; shows action and initiative; self-motivating; demonstrates role flexibility from
          follower to leader according to the situation; supports commander’s intent.
          A4.2.1.4.2. Takes initiative to accomplish squadron goals.
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              21


        A4.2.1.4.3. Weighs and evaluates courses of action.
        A4.2.1.4.4. Demonstrates foresight/anticipates consequences and outcomes.
        A4.2.1.4.5. Inspires others to follow leader’s intent.
     A4.2.1.5. Assimilate AF culture/core values USAFA Outcomes 1.1.1, 1.3.2, 1.3.4, 2.6.3,
     3.4.2, ODS 4-degree 5; AFI 36-2014 A2.1.1.1.1.
        A4.2.1.5.1. Duty concept—fulfills obligations; loyalty—works within system and
        complies with policies; displays trust and commitment; internalizes core values.
        A4.2.1.5.2. Demonstrates trustworthiness—dependable, fair, honest and personally
        accountable.
        A4.2.1.5.3. Effectively uses chain-of-command.
        A4.2.1.5.4. Consistently strives for excellence.
        A4.2.1.5.5. Shows selfless service.
        A4.2.1.5.6. Prevents rumors-seeks accurate information.
     A4.2.1.6. Lead by example USAFA Outcomes 1.1.2, 1.1.3, 1.1.4, 2.6.2, 2.6.3, 2.6.4,
     2.6.5, 2.7.3; ODS 4-degree 6; AFI 36-2014 A2.1.1.1.3, A2.1.1.1.4, A2.1.1.1.5.
        A4.2.1.6.1. Moral and mental courage; ethical leadership; accepts personal
        responsibility and blame; puts being right ahead of being popular; willing to take a
        public stand; supports core values.
        A4.2.1.6.2. Models courage.
        A4.2.1.6.3. Fulfills standards.
        A4.2.1.6.4. Does what is right when everybody or nobody is looking.
        A4.2.1.6.5. Takes a stand for principles and own view even if unpopular.
        A4.2.1.6.6. Openly accepts responsibility for actions.
     A4.2.1.7. Effectively engage thinking/evaluative processes USAFA Outcomes 2.1.06,
     2.1.08, 2.1.10, 2.3.2, 2.3.4, 2.3.5, 2.3.6, 2.4.1.
        A4.2.1.7.1. Practices critical thinking and data driven decision-making; surveys
        landscape to identify data; integrates information; recognizes patterns; makes well
        informed decisions; establishes effective priorities; reasons critically and ethically;
        thinks creatively.
        A4.2.1.7.2. Consistently supports ideas with facts/reliable data.
        A4.2.1.7.3. Bases decisions on verifiable information.
        A4.2.1.7.4. Consistently demonstrates efficient prioritization of actions.
        A4.2.1.7.5. Considers alternate views and courses of action before proceeding.
     A4.2.1.8. Display fortitude USAFA Outcomes 2.5.1, 2.5.2, 2.6.1, 2.6.4, 2.7.1.
        A4.2.1.8.1. Demonstrates warrior ethos; discipline, stamina, perseverance; self-
        efficacy; hardiness.
 22                                                  USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


         A4.2.1.8.2. Brings high energy and vitality to assigned tasks/duties.
         A4.2.1.8.3. Consistently completes tasks.
         A4.2.1.8.4. Confronts challenges despite fatigue or circumstances.
         A4.2.1.8.5. Rarely expresses excuses.
         A4.2.1.8.6. Consistently models/inspires in others a “can-do” spirit.
      A4.2.1.9. Demonstrate composure and leadership presence USAFA Outcomes 1.2.1,
      2.3.3, 2.7.2, 2.8.1.
         A4.2.1.9.1. Self-regulation; self-control of emotions and behavior; displays patience
         over impulsivity; maintains positive attitude even under adversity; shows self-respect.
         A4.2.1.9.2. Consistently demonstrates self-control.
         A4.2.1.9.3. Typically confident, professional and poised—under pressure or not.
         A4.2.1.9.4. Consistently resists temptation and controls impulses.
         A4.2.1.9.5. Upbeat and optimistic.
      A4.2.1.10. Practice adaptability USAFA Outcomes 2.4.3, 2.4.5.
         A4.2.1.10.1. Maintains effectiveness when experiencing major changes; adjusts
         quickly to new requirements, tasks, structures, processes, and cultures; thinks and acts
         quickly and logically under ambiguous conditions; capitalizes on opportunities while
         managing risks.
         A4.2.1.10.2. Readily buys-in to changes without interruption to daily activities.
         A4.2.1.10.3. Supports others to get “on board”.
         A4.2.1.10.4. Self-sufficient.
         A4.2.1.10.5. Seeks clarity as needed to be self-directing and meet expectations.
A4.3. 3rd-class MPA.
   A4.3.1. Personal Competencies.
      A4.3.1.1. Master primary duty and leadership skills.
         A4.3.1.1.1. Knows and follows standards; makes professional presentation in
         appearance and customs/courtesies; learns from others and masters primary duty
         skills; effectively executes role as instructor and coach; develops expertise and
         practices leadership.
         A4.3.1.1.2. Consistently thorough and timely in completing work/duties.
         A4.3.1.1.3. Quickly learner of duty-related and leadership skills.
         A4.3.1.1.4. Learns from and associates with excellent role models.
         A4.3.1.1.5. Almost always displays professional conduct and appearance.
      A4.3.1.2. Use self-awareness to lead by example.
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              23


        A4.3.1.2.1. Demonstrate courage and ethical leadership by taking a public stand and
        supporting core values; accepts personal responsibility, use responsibility to seek
        feedback to promote professional development; be aware of impact on others.
        A4.3.1.2.2. Strong role model.
        A4.3.1.2.3. Visibly does what is right.
        A4.3.1.2.4. Seizes formal and informal leadership opportunities.
        A4.3.1.2.5. Seeks, accepts and uses feedback to make positive changes.
        A4.3.1.2.6. Embraces personal responsibility.
     A4.3.1.3. Internalize and demonstrate core values and AF culture.
        A4.3.1.3.1. Supports commander’s intent; shows critical reasoning and action; duty
        concept—fulfills obligations; loyalty—works within system and complies with
        policies; internalizes standards of performance and values; shows action and
        initiative; self-motivating; demonstrates role flexibility from follower to leader
        according to the situation.
        A4.3.1.3.2. Consistently demonstrates core values, duty concept and loyalty.
        A4.3.1.3.3. Trustworthy.
        A4.3.1.3.4. Anticipates and fulfills commitments.
        A4.3.1.3.5. Visibly supports the Academy mission.
        A4.3.1.3.6. Uses chain of command to address issues and raise ideas.
        A4.3.1.3.7. Complies with policies and procedures, while offering revisions or
        improvements.
     A4.3.1.4. Effectively engage thinking/evaluative processes.
        A4.3.1.4.1. Practices critical thinking and data driven decision-making; surveys
        landscape to identify data; integrates information; recognizes patterns; makes well
        informed decisions; establishes effective priorities; reasons critically and ethically;
        thinks creatively.
        A4.3.1.4.2. Consistently supports ideas with facts/reliable data.
        A4.3.1.4.3. Bases decisions on verifiable information.
        A4.3.1.4.4. Consistently demonstrates effective prioritization of actions.
        A4.3.1.4.5. Considers alternate views and courses of action before proceeding.
     A4.3.1.5. Demonstrate leadership decorum.
        A4.3.1.5.1. Demonstrates warrior ethos; hardiness; self-control of emotions and
        behavior; displays patience over impulsivity; maintains effectiveness and positive
        attitude even under adversity and change; shows self-respect; adjusts quickly to new
        requirements, tasks, structures, processes, and cultures; thinks and acts quickly to
        capitalize on opportunities while managing risks.
        A4.3.1.5.2. Shows stamina in meeting all challenges.
24                                                    USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


         A4.3.1.5.3. Maintains an optimistic and competitive attitude.
         A4.3.1.5.4. Shows high degree of composure and poise.
         A4.3.1.5.5. Presents self-confidently, in control and able to resist temptation.
         A4.3.1.5.6. Demonstrates warrior ethos-hardiness and resiliency; perseverance in
         adversity.
  A4.3.2. Interpersonal competencies.
     A4.3.2.1. Serve as wingman. USAFA Outcomes 1.4.3, 2.6.2; ODS 3-degree role; AFI
     36-2014 A2.3.2.
     A4.3.2.2. Puts people first—attends to wellbeing (health, morale, safety, training) of
     others; provides individual support; offers assistance and help; shows a commitment to
     the well-being and success of others; creates an environment where airmen take care of
     airmen.
     A4.3.2.3. Initiates providing challenge and support to peers and fourth-class cadets.
     A4.3.2.4. Shows and active interest in and concern for the lives of all peers and fourth-
     class cadets.
     A4.3.2.5. Is immediately accessible to needs of peers and fourth-class cadets, even at
     expense of personal interest.
     A4.3.2.6. Proactively prevents problems from occurring.
     A4.3.2.7. Practice accountability/enforcement. USAFA Outcomes 1.1.4, 1.4.3, 2.6.2,
     2.6.3, 2.8.6, 3.4.4; AFI 36-2014 A2.1.3.1.6.
         A4.3.2.7.1. Holds self and others accountable; tactfully confronts and corrects others
         as necessary; puts mission first, shows moral courage to do the right thing; challenges
         others to improve.
         A4.3.2.7.2. Initiates interaction with others.
         A4.3.2.7.3. Effectively confronts peers and fourth-class cadets to enforce policy.
         A4.3.2.7.4. Provides rationale and context (reasons why) when appropriate.
         A4.3.2.7.5. Expects and challenges others to keep the highest professional and
         personal standards.
  A4.3.3. Show respect for self and others. USAFA Outcomes 1.1.2, 1.2.1, 1.2.2, 1.5.1, 2.2.5,
  2.8.7; ODS 3-degree 2; AFI 36-2014 A2.3.3.
     A4.3.3.1. Promotes fairness, treats people in an equitable manner; shows dignity for
     others individually and for group members; is discrete and tactful in making corrections;
     is courteous; is approachable; displays ethical leadership, builds trust—is trustworthy;
     displays social awareness and empathy.
     A4.3.3.2. Shows respect by being impartial and unbiased.
     A4.3.3.3. Appropriately sensitive to others’ beliefs, values and opinions.
     A4.3.3.4. Listens carefully to all people.
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                              25


      A4.3.3.5. Is approachable and courteous.
      A4.3.3.6. Demands others listen carefully and show respect.
         A4.3.3.7. Demonstrates trustworthiness by honoring commitments and his/her word.
      A4.3.3.8. Effectively communicate. USAFA Outcomes 2.2.1, 2.2.2, 2.2.3, 2.2.4, 2.2.5,
      2.2.6; ODS 3-degree 5; AFI 36-2014 A2.2.2.1.1.
         A4.3.3.8.1. Articulates ideas that are clear, concise, and proper; shows accurate
         listening; logical; uses content and style appropriate to audience and military needs;
         comprehends others views, understands others; seeks feedback, clearly states
         expectations; shares information; fosters free flow of ideas when appropriate;
         clarifies.
         A4.3.3.8.2. Sends and receives ideas and information effectively.
         A4.3.3.8.3. Shares thoughts clearly to others.
         A4.3.3.8.4. Gains input by listening effectively.
         A4.3.3.8.5. Consistently engages in effective two-way communication.
         A4.3.3.8.6. Seeks feedback to improve self-awareness and personal effectiveness.
         A4.3.3.8.7. Clearly states expectations.
      A4.3.3.9. Coach others to develop and to achieve personal objectives            USAFA
      Objectives 1.4.3, 2.8.2; ODS 3-degree 1; AFI 36-2014 A2.3.1.
         A4.3.3.9.1. Commitment to developing others; supports organizational goals and
         policies; leads by example; helps others to improve and motivates them to do so;
         presents feedback with coaching/support; provides specific and timely feedback for
         improvement.
         A4.3.3.9.2. Helps fourth-class cadets identify strengths/growth areas.
         A4.3.3.9.3. Provides instruction/guidance/support and assistance as appropriate.
         A4.3.3.9.4. Provides accurate feedback (positive and negative) to improve
         development.
         A4.3.3.9.5. Uses challenge and support to enable fourth-class cadets to achieve
         personal objectives and excellence.
A4.4. 2nd-class MPA.
   A4.4.1. Personal competency.
      A4.4.1.1. Perform as polished role model.
         A4.4.1.1.1. Knows and follows standards and commander’s intent; authentic
         leader—enacts core values; seeks and uses feedback; command presence with
         professionalism, poise and confidence; anticipates and initiates reasoned approaches
         to mission needs; resilient and optimistic.
         A4.4.1.1.2. Supports leaders and chain-of-command.
         A4.4.1.1.3. Proactive, prepared and energized to meet and serve mission needs.
26                                                   USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


         A4.4.1.1.4. Consistently models core values and loyalty.
         A4.4.1.1.5. Sharp appearance, excellent bearing, demeanor and attitude.
  A4.4.2. Interpersonal competencies.
     A4.4.2.1. Serve as respectful wingman.
         A4.4.2.1.1. Values and serves the well-being (health, morale, safety, training) of
         others; displays social awareness and empathy--is approachable; shows a
         commitment to the success of others; creates an environment where airmen take care
         of airmen—treats others fairly and ensures fair treatment for everyone; supports
         dignity and trust; corrects others to support improved culture.
         A4.4.2.1.2. Initiates support for others while showing utmost respect, concern and
         fairness.
         A4.4.2.1.3. Consistently monitors/promotes safety and dignity for all others.
         A4.4.2.1.4. Anticipates and prevents problems.
         A4.4.2.1.5. Enacts a true “open-door” attitude.
         A4.4.2.1.6. Provides support to everyone.
     A4.4.2.2. Supports standards for professional development.
         A4.4.2.2.1. Tactfully confronts and corrects others to enforce standards; puts mission
         first by supporting organizational goals and policies, shows moral courage in
         motivating and challenging others to improve; assertively and objectively provides
         specific and timely feedback for improvement.
         A4.4.2.2.2. Initiates interaction to confront others to uphold standards.       Support
         development of others.
         A4.4.2.2.3. Routinely engages underclassmen to provide coaching/corrections with
         clear explanations and feedback.
         A4.4.2.2.4. Motivates all others to improve and develop.
     A4.4.2.3. Effectively communicate.
         A4.4.2.3.1. Articulates ideas that are clear, concise, and proper; shows accurate
         listening; logical; uses content and style appropriate to audience and military needs;
         comprehends others views, understands others; seeks feedback, clearly states
         expectations; shares information; fosters free flow of ideas when appropriate;
         clarifies.
         A4.4.2.3.2. Sends and receives ideas and information effectively.
         A4.4.2.3.3. Shares thoughts clearly to others and gains extra input by listening
         effectively.
         A4.4.2.3.4. Consistently engages in effective two-way communication.
  A4.4.3. Team competencies.
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                               27


     A4.4.3.1. Apply team dynamics USAFA Outcomes 2.1.06, 2.2.5, 2.3.2, 2.3.4, 2.3.6,
     2.8.1, 2.8.5; ODS 2-degree 1; AFI 36-2014 A2.4.1.
        A4.4.3.1.1. Builds group identity for cohesiveness, confidence, and cooperation;
        delegates; sets challenges; communicates; sees other’s points of view; establishes
        feedback loops; collects and weighs info; pursues innovation; recognizes and rewards
        quality work; uses effects-based thinking—realizes intended and unintended
        consequences; creates effective norms of conduct.
        A4.4.3.1.2. Initiates and maintains collaborative relationships to build teamwork.
        A4.4.3.1.3. Almost always considers input from others.
        A4.4.3.1.4. Ensures clear communication across the team.
        A4.4.3.1.5. Assesses what is and is not working.
        A4.4.3.1.6. Consistently shares credit, readily praises or rewards others.
     A4.4.3.2. Focuses effort USAFA Outcomes 2.1.06, 2.1.07, 2.2.4, 2.2.5, 2.7.4, 2.8.2,
     2.8.7; ODS 2-degree 2; AFI 36-2014 A2.3.3.
        A4.4.3.2.1. Integrates individual talent in support of tasks—uses all members;
        establishes roles and expectations/standards; establishes knowledge and skills;
        provides purpose, direction, and priorities; motivates subordinates to accomplish
        assigned tasks; sets objectives; leverages diversity in support of goals; delegates;
        builds trust; enhances coordination; encourages other points of view; builds bonds;
        sustains team morale.
        A4.4.3.2.2. Widely communicates purpose/expectations and plan for team success.
        A4.4.3.2.3. Motivates everyone to accomplish assigned tasks.
        A4.4.3.2.4. Almost always assigns tasks based on talent to meet team objectives.
        A4.4.3.2.5. Openly values and includes everyone’s breadth of individual experience
        and talents to accomplish tasks.
     A4.4.3.3. Practice effective decision-making USAFA Outcomes 2.1.06, 2.1.08,2.2.6,
     2.3.2, 2.4.1, 2.4.2, 2.4.3, 2.4.4; ODS 2-degree 4; AFI 36-2014 A2.7.2.
        A4.4.3.3.1. Sound judgment/well-reasoned decisions; changes plan and direction as
        needed; balances opportunity and risk, chooses wisely between different courses of
        action; expresses well thought-out and well-organized ideas; makes logical
        assumptions; uncovers critical issues; keeps informed about issues and developments;
        considers the impact and implications of decisions on others and on the situation.
        A4.4.3.3.2. Decisions almost always support purpose and broad team goals.
        A4.4.3.3.3. Decisions are based on facts/multiple courses of action.
        A4.4.3.3.4. Actively acquires extra/current data regarding tasks.
        A4.4.3.3.5. Thinks through decisions before acting.
        A4.4.3.3.6. Almost always considers impact of decisions.
 28                                                   USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


      A4.4.3.4. Get results USAFA Outcomes 1.4.3, 2.1.10, 2.2.6, 2.8.2; ODS 2-degree 5;
      AFI 36-2014 A2.4.1.
          A4.4.3.4.1. Uses knowledge and skills to support squadron/organizational goals;
          works toward greater good—sets aside self-interest to accomplish mission; enforces
          standards; garners extra effort from others; team performs well--effectiveness
          regarding expected outcomes; team becomes competent as a unit; use feedback to
          make modifications; monitors progress.
          A4.4.3.4.2. Consistently motivates self/others toward goals.
          A4.4.3.4.3. Acts as great example of duty concept/service before self.
          A4.4.3.4.4. Always exerts extra effort—inspires similar effort from others.
          A4.4.3.4.5. Helps team develop synergy and improve capability.
          A4.4.3.4.6. Team almost always accomplishes goals and objectives.
      A4.4.3.5. Empower and inspire USAFA Outcomes 1.4.3, 2.2.1, 2.8.1, 2.8.3, 2.8.4, 2.8.7;
      ODS 2-degree 6; AFI 36-2014 A2.3.1.
          A4.4.3.5.1. Guides others in the direction of goals and mission; broadens mentor and
          supervisor skills to focus on team objectives; develops others individually; inspires
          strong effort to transcend self-interest; teaches—helps others learn; allows
          participation in decision making; makes self-available for assistance; challenges
          others to match their example; give subordinates reasons for tasks.
          A4.4.3.5.2. Explains purpose—instills confidence in others and provides meaning.
          A4.4.3.5.3. Skillfully delegates to develop subordinate talent.
          A4.4.3.5.4. Helps others to perform individual task as key part of entire objective.
          A4.4.3.5.5. Frequently seeks and includes input and participation from all members.
          A4.4.3.5.6. Continually provides support and feedback.
      A4.4.3.6. Manage conflict USAFA Outcomes 2.2.5, 2.6.5, 2.7.1, 2.8.2, 2.8.7; AFI 36-
      2014 A2.4.2.
          A4.4.3.6.1. Gains cooperation of others; anticipates and addresses conflict
          constructively; uses interpersonal skills to capitalize on conflict and achieve focus;
          overcomes resistance; mediates conflicts and disagreements; attends to and resolves
          misunderstandings; encourages people to work effectively with each other—creates
          long-term positive relationships.
          A4.4.3.6.2. Consistently finds common ground to unify others.
          A4.4.3.6.3. Assertively helps others discuss, not suppress, differences.
          A4.4.3.6.4. Focuses disagreements on issues, not personalities.
          A4.4.3.6.5. Drives team to resolve conflict while emphasizing the need to work
          together to succeed.
A4.5. 1st-class MPA.
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                29


  A4.5.1. Personal competency.
     A4.5.1.1. Perform as polished role model.
         A4.5.1.1.1. Knows and follows standards and commander’s intent; authentic
         leader—enacts core values; seeks and uses feedback; command presence with
         professionalism, poise and confidence; anticipates and initiates reasoned approaches
         to mission needs; resilient and optimistic.
         A4.5.1.1.2. Embraces and supports leaders.
         A4.5.1.1.3. Proactive, prepared and energized to meet and serve mission needs.
         A4.5.1.1.4. Consistently models core values and loyalty.
         A4.5.1.1.5. Sharp appearance, excellent bearing, demeanor and attitude.
  A4.5.2. Interpersonal competencies.
     A4.5.2.1. Serve as respectful wingman.
         A4.5.2.1.1. Serves the well-being (health, morale, safety, training) of others; displays
         social awareness and empathy--is approachable; shows a commitment to the success
         of others; creates an environment where airmen take care of airmen—treats others
         fairly and ensures fair treatment for everyone; supports dignity and trust; corrects
         others to support improvement.
         A4.5.2.1.2. Initiates support for others while showing utmost respect, concern and
         fairness.
         A4.5.2.1.3. Consistently monitors/promotes safety and dignity for all others.
         A4.5.2.1.4. Anticipates and prevents problems.
         A4.5.2.1.5. Enacts a true “open-door” attitude.
         A4.5.2.1.6. Provides support to everyone.
     A4.5.2.2. Express and show support for standards for professional development.
         A4.5.2.2.1. Tactfully confronts and corrects others to enforce standards; puts mission
         first by supporting organizational goals and policies; seeks to understand and clarify
         others views and behavior; shows moral courage in motivating and challenging others
         to improve. Assertively and objectively provides specific and timely feedback for
         improvement.
         A4.5.2.2.2. Consistently and effectively engages others to uphold standards.
         A4.5.2.2.3. Initiates on-the-spot instruction, correction and feedback.
         A4.5.2.2.4. Routinely motivates/challenges and supports others to improve.
         A4.5.2.2.5. Almost always promotes dialog and listens, ensures expectations are
         understood and shared.
  A4.5.3. Team competencies.
     A4.5.3.1. Focus team energy and direction.
30                                                    USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


         A4.5.3.1.1. Establishes purpose, direction, and standards; assesses and utilizes talent;
         assigns and delegates roles and responsibilities; builds team identity and effective
         norms; develops and applies two-way communication channels and feedback loops;
         recognizes and rewards quality work; maintains focus and sustains morale.
         A4.5.3.1.2. Carefully sets and clearly conveys purpose and expectations.
         A4.5.3.1.3. Assigns people to tasks based on ability and needs.
         A4.5.3.1.4. Uses communication skills to promote effective work relationships.
         A4.5.3.1.5. Actively addresses contributions of others.
         A4.5.3.1.6. Consistently seeks input/feedback.
     A4.5.3.2. Make effective decisions to get results.
         A4.5.3.2.1. Uses knowledge and makes decisions to achieve squadron/organizational
         goals; drives organization to mission success by garnering extra effort and upholding
         expectations; shifts plans and processes for best course of action; keeps informed by
         monitoring progress; helps team becomes competent as a unit.
         A4.5.3.2.2. Makes timely and well-informed decisions that lead to goal
         accomplishment.
         A4.5.3.2.3. Motivates others to apply extra effort to meet broader goals.
         A4.5.3.2.4. Willing to make self-sacrifices to attain objectives.
         A4.5.3.2.5. Almost always invested in helping team develop ability/morale.
     A4.5.3.3. Inspire capability and teamwork.
         A4.5.3.3.1. Guides others to focus on overarching team objectives; applies
         supervisory skills to develop others and facilitate alignment of effort; involves others
         in decision making; recognizes and responds to misunderstandings; resolves conflict
         with expedience and effectiveness.
         A4.5.3.3.2. Consistently orients team toward common objectives.
         A4.5.3.3.3. Skillfully delegates tasks to instill confidence and develop subordinate’s
         skills.
         A4.5.3.3.4. Solicits input for decisions.
         A4.5.3.3.5. Effectively merges inputs toward team goals.
         A4.5.3.3.6. Boldly embraces, clarifies, mediates and resolves conflict among team
         members.
  A4.5.4. Organizational competencies.
     A4.5.4.1. Improve element, flight, squadron, and wing policy USAFA Outcomes 1.4.3,
     2.4.3, 2.6.2, 2.7.4; ODS 1-degree 1; AFI 36-2014 A2.6.4, A2.7.2, A2.7.3.
         A4.5.4.1.1. Evaluates strengths and weaknesses or organization; recognizes
         opportunities for improvements and limitations/barriers; originates action to change
         an existing process; communicates with timely, thoughtful, and credible information,
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                31


        analysis, and opinion; strategic cadet—shows pride in USAFA/AF, offers ideas,
        expresses loyalty, takes action to protect the Academy; leads by example, always
        preparing physically, mentally and professionally; shapes culture and sustains a
        values-based environment.
        A4.5.4.1.2. Consistently assesses unit capability to forecast improvements.
        A4.5.4.1.3. Constructs timely plans/recommendations for improvement.
        A4.5.4.1.4. Effectively implements plans.
        A4.5.4.1.5. Eagerly involved in unit activities and events.
        A4.5.4.1.6. Promotes and actively implements the Academy’s changes.
        A4.5.4.1.7. Sets positive tone of enthusiastic participation in change efforts.
     A4.5.4.2. Integrate efforts of smaller units to broader objectives USAFA Outcomes
     2.2.1, 2.2.4, 2.8.2, 2.8.6; ODS 1-degree 2; AFI 36-2014 A2.7.1, A2.8.1.
        A4.5.4.2.1. Builds shared vision; guides and directs individual and unit tasks so they
        are completed to standards and are on time; uses forward planning to support goal
        attainment; allocates appropriate time to accomplish tasks; coordinates plans across
        levels as needed; delegates tasks to develop others; keeps superiors and subordinates
        informed; performs ongoing assessment of progress; creates a climate that expects
        good performance; implements best practices; secures necessary resources; combines
        and applies skills with people, ideas, and things to train, plan, prepare, and execute to
        meet objectives.
        A4.5.4.2.2. Steadily uses shared vision to coordinate units in achieving the
        Academy’s objectives.
        A4.5.4.2.3. Effectively delegates, relays information, monitors progress and skillfully
        executes tasks.
        A4.5.4.2.4. Asserts self as resourceful leader, develops self-motivating teams—gets
        results.
     A4.5.4.3. Develop talent of others USAFA Outcomes 1.4.3, 2.8.4, and 2.8.5; ODS 1-
     degree 3.
        A4.5.4.3.1. Commitment to developing others and the organization; acts and leads
        positively during times of stress; provides feedback and recognizes individual and
        team accomplishments; support an environment where all leaders and subordinates
        can reach their full potential; invest time and effort in mentoring; guides subordinate
        leaders in thinking through problems; strives to expand and enhance subordinates’
        competence and confidence.
        A4.5.4.3.2. Consistently focuses on developing others, sets expectations and provides
        sufficient training.
        A4.5.4.3.3. Intentionally   develops    subordinate    leaders   through    professional
        struggle/stretch.
        A4.5.4.3.4. Delegates and empowers with support.
32                                                 USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


        A4.5.4.3.5. Eagerly embraces mentoring others.
     A4.5.4.4. Drives organizational norms for high performance and professional standards
     USAFA Outcomes 1.3.4, 1.5.1, 2.5.1, 2.6.5, 2.8.7; ODS 1-degree 4; AFI 36-2014 A2.1.1,
     A2.1.3.
        A4.5.4.4.1. Exemplifies organizational norms and holds others accountable; moral
        and mental courage in leading from the front; justly applies disciplinary measures;
        actively fosters a healthy, ethical climate.
        A4.5.4.4.2. Complies with and supports organizational goals; fosters respect for
        human dignity
        A4.5.4.4.3. Actively sets positive climate and culture for unit through example.
        A4.5.4.4.4. Displays moral and mental courage by upholding professional standards.
        A4.5.4.4.5. Always holds others accountable for their actions and conduct.
        A4.5.4.4.6. Staunchly refuses to tolerate disrespect for human dignity and
        organizational standards.
        A4.5.4.4.7. Promotes a practice across the unit for taking care of others and policing
        problems.
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                    33


                                       Attachment 5
             OBJECTIVE RATING CRITERIA FOR EACH CLASS YEAR

Table A5.1. 4th-class SQ Objective Rating Areas.

                               Criteria        % of Objective
                         Personal
                                                      30
                         Knowledge Scores
                         SAMI                         20

                         AMI                          20

                         PAI                          20
                         Squadron Major
                                                      10
                         Training Events
                         TOTAL                        100
                         NOTE: The above “objective rating
                         criteria” by class year only count for
                         ½ of the cadet’s objective MPA in
                         semester in which they are enrolled in
                         commissioning education (CE).


Table A5.2. 3rd-class SQ Objective Rating Areas.

                                Criteria       % of Objective
                         Supervision (K-Test
                         score average of 4-          25
                         degrees)
                         SAMI                         15

                         AMI                          15

                         PAI                          15
                         Squadron Major
                                                      15
                         Training Events
                         CQ inspection score          15

                         TOTAL                        100
 34                                                USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


Table A5.3. 2nd-class SQ Objective Rating Areas.

                               Criteria       % of Objective

                          Unit-level scores are SAMI scores for
                                  the position respective
                              flight/squadron/group/wing
                                SAMI                 30

                                AMI                  25

                                 PAI                 15

                           Squadron Major
                                                     30
                           Training Events
                               TOTAL                100

Table A5.4. 1st-class SQ Objective Rating Areas.

                         Criteria            % of Objective

                         Unit-level scores are SAMI scores for
                         the position respective
                         flight/squadron/group/wing

                         SAMI                30

                         AMI                 25

                         PAI                 10

                         Squadron Major
                                             35
                         Training Events
                         TOTAL               100
USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013                                                                   35


                                          Attachment 6
                          OBJECTIVE SCORING CONVERSIONS

Figure A6.1. Commissioning Education and Knowledge Testing (CE/KT).




Above depicts the conversion of the CE/KT Scores to 4.0 grade scale. For all CE/KT scores
greater or equal to 50, the grades shall be converted using a linear slope such that a score of 50
equals a MPA component rating of 0.00 and 100 equals 4.00. All scores below a 50 equal MPA
Component Rating of 0.00.

Figure A6.2. Morning Inspections (S/AMI) or CQ Inspections (CQI).

  4.000
  3.500
  3.000
  2.500
  2.000
  1.500
  1.000
  0.500
  0.000
          0 10 20 30 40 50 60 62 64 66 68 70 72 74 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 92 94 96 98 100

                                               MPA Rating



Above depicts the conversion of an S/AMI or CQI Score to 4.0 grade scale. For all inspection
scores greater or equal to 60, the grades shall be converted using a linear slope such that a score
of 60 equals a MPA component rating of 0.00 and 100 equals 4.00. All scores below a 60 equal
MPA Component Rating of 0.00.
 36                                                      USAFAI36-2401 14 NOVEMBER 2013


Figure A6.3. Personal Appearance Inspection (PAI).

  4.000
  3.500
  3.000
  2.500
  2.000
  1.500
  1.000
  0.500
  0.000
          0   10 20 30 40 50 60 70 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 92 94 96 98 100

                                                 MPA Rating



Above depicts the conversion to a PAI Score to 4.0 grade scale. For all PAI scores greater or
equal to 75, the grades shall be converted using a linear slope such that a score of 75 equals a
MPA component rating of 0.000 and 100 equals 4.000. All scores below a 75 equal MPA
Component Rating of 0.000.

Table A6.1. Major Training Event.

                            MTE Squadron Rating                MPA Rating
                                 1st Place                        4.0
                                     2nd Place                     3.85
                                      rd
                                     3 Place                       3.72
                                   Outstanding                      3.5
                                    Excellent                      3.15
                                   Satisfactory                     2.8
                          Marginal (single course DQ)               2.4
                      Unsatisfactory (multiple course DQ)           2.0
