BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             USAFE INSTRUCTION 51-703
US AIR FORCES IN EUROPE (USAFE)                                                            9 JULY 2001
                                                                      Certified Current 7 February 2013
                                                                                                   Law

                                                           GERMAN LAW ON SELF-DEFENSE
                                                    (NOTWEHR) APPLICABLE TO OFFICIAL USE
                                                          OF ARMS BY CIVILIAN PERSONNEL

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO/PP WWW site at:
              http://afpubs.hq.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAFE/JAI (Mr Udo Bollmann)                   Certified by: HQ USAFE/JAI (Col C.R. Dooley)
Supersedes USAFEI 51-703, 17 May 1999.                                                    Pages: 6
                                                                                   Distribution: F

This instruction implements Air Force Policy directive 51-7, International Law. It applies to all USAFE,
US Air Force Reserve and Air National Guard units within the USAFE area of responsibility.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This revision reflects revised text of Article 12, Paragraph 4, Sentence 2, Supplementary Agreement.



1. Purpose:
   1.1. To direct compliance with Articl e 12 of the Supplementary Agreement (Attachment 2), by
   members of the civilian component and local and third-country personnel employed in the services of
   the US forces authorized to p ossess and carry firearm s in the performance of their duties for safe-
   guarding of cash or property or where they are particularly endangered by the special nature of their
   official position or activities.
   1.2. To provide persons authorized to possess a nd carry arms under Article 12 of the Supplementay
   Agreement (Attachment 2), the German in terpretation of the German Law on self-defense (Not-
   wehr).

2. German Law on Self-Defense . The German Law on Self-Defense (Notwehr) is contained in an
agreed minute regarding Article 12 at Attachment 3.
2                                                                       USAFEI51-703 9 July 2001


3. Responsibility. All persons authorized to possess and carry arms under Article 12 of the Supplemen-
tary Agreement (Attachment 2) will be instructed in and responsible for knowledge and compliance with
the German interpretation of the German Law on Self-Defense, Attachment 3.



                                                      STEPHEN C. DONNELLY, Colonel, USAF
                                                      Staff Judge Advocate
USAFEI51-703 9 July 2001                                                                             3


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of Their Forces, signed
19 June 1951 (NATO Status of Forces Agreement)
Revised Agreement of 18 March 1993 (effective 29 March 1998) to Amend the Agreement of 3 August
1959, as amended by agreements of 21 October 1971 and M18 May 1981 to Supplement the Agreement
Between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of Their Forces With Respect to
Foreign Forces Stationed in the Federal Republic of Germany (Supplementary Agreement)
Protocol of Signature to the Supplementary Agreement, signed 3 August 1959
4                                                                              USAFEI51-703 9 July 2001


                                               Attachment 2

                          ARTICLE 12, SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT

A2.1. Text of Article 12:
    1. The authorities of a force m ay authorize m embers of the ci vilian component and other persons
       employed in the service of the force to possess and c arry arms insofar as persons are responsible
       for the safeguarding of cash or property or are particularly endangered by the special nature of
       their official position or activities.
    2. The authorities of the forces shall issue regulations, which shall conform to the German law on
       self-defense (Notwehr), on the issue of arms by the persons authorized in accordance with Para-
       graph I of this Article.
    3. Persons authorized in ac cordance with Paragraph 1 of this Article may bea r firearms only if in
       possession of a fire arms’ c ertificate issued by t he authorit ies of the for ce. A suit ably endor sed
       duty identity card shall also be considered a firearms’ certificate.
    4. The authorities of the force shall issue firearms certificates only to persons as to whose reliability
       there is no reasonable doubt. They shall withdraw a firearms certificate at the request of the Ger-
       man authorities or on their own decision if it is established that the holder has misused his firearm
       or if reasonable doubt exists as to his reliability.
USAFEI51-703 9 July 2001                                                                                       5


                                                Attachment 3

                            AGREED MINUTE REGARDING ARTICLE 12

A3.1. Text of section regarding Article 12 of the Supplementary Agreement:
1. The expression "German law on self-defense (Notwehr)" in paragraph 2 of Article 12 should be con-
strued in accordance with the following Ge rman interpretation of Se ction 53 of the German Criminal
Code:
        a. Section 53 of the German Criminal Code reads as follows:
"No act is punishable if demanded in self-defense. (See Note #1).
Self-defense is such defense as is necessary to avert an imminent unlawful attack upon oneself or another.
An act in excess of necessary self-defense is not punishable if the perpetrator exceeded the bounds of
defense in consternation, fear, or alarm."
        b. In construing Section 5.3, Ger man C riminal Code, legal pra ctice has long followed some
well-established principles summarized as follows:
              (1) Attack means any act which is aimed at violating the legally protected rights or interests
of another person.
               (2) The nature of the protected rights or intere sts that are threatened by the attack is not
material. The objects of an attack include not only life and limb but all legally protected interests (e.g. lib-
erty, morality, honor, property, possession, or hunting rights).
             (3) The protected interest to be defended need not belong to the person defending it; it may
belong to some other person. In the latter case, self-defense is termed defense in aid of a th ird person
(Nothilfe).
              (4) An attack that the attacked person is under no obligation to suffer shall be deemed to be
an unlawful attack. Thus self-defense is permissible not only against a person guilty of an unlawful act but
also against an incompetent, an insane person, a child, or one acting in unavoidable error (See Note #2).
               (5) An attack shall be de emed an 'imminent' attack if it is im mediately impending, is in
progress, or is continuing; an attack threatened in the future or that has been completed is not considered
an imminent attack. Whether or not an attack is imminent is determined by the objective facts and not by
the subjective belief of the person acting in self-defense.
               (6) An att ack shall be deemed to be continuing and, therefore, imminent until the danger
arising from it to the threatened legally protected interest either has compl etely passed or, conversely,
until the attack has resulted in the irretrievable loss of such interest. For instance, if a thief escapes with a
stolen article or a poacher with a head of game, self-defense is permissible during hot pursuit and so long
as the object in question, insofar as the perpetrator is concerned, has not reached a place of safety.
              (7) The act of se lf-defense must be nec essary to a vert an a ttack. The ne cessity shall be
ascertained from case-to-case by applying objective standards. In princi ple, the extent of permi ssible
defense is determined by the severity and persistence of the attack and by the means that are available to
the person attacked for his (or her) defense.
6                                                                               USAFEI51-703 9 July 2001


             (8) A legally protected interest of the attacked shall be deemed to have been infringed upon
unnecessarily if the person threatened by the attack is able to evade the attack without abandoning his own
interests.
              (9) As a rule, it is not nece ssary that the value of t he l egally protecte d i nterests of the
attacked person should be balanced against the loss t hat the attacker might sustain (princ iple of propor -
tionality). But this principle is subject to limitations. The killing of a thief is not a required (necessary)
act of defense if the articles that the attacked person risks losing are only of minor value (this principle is
controversial). (See Note #2.)
               (10) It suffices that the act of self-defense is required in order to avert an attack against one-
self or a ny other person. I t is not ne cessary that the attack is aime d at a relative within the meaning of
paragraph 2, section 52, German Criminal Code.
               (11) Only insofar as directed against the attacker shall an act of defense be deemed to be an
act of self-defense to ward off an unlawful attack. Acts that violate legally protected interests of innocent
bystanders cannot be justified on grounds of self -defense. Under certain circumstances, the perpetrators
of such acts may go unpunished on the grounds that the acts were justified by necessity (Notstand).
NOTE #1: Paragraph 2, section 52, and section 53, German Criminal Code, referred to in section Re
Article 12 of the Protocol of Si gnature are now designated No 1, section I 1 (1), and section 32, German
Criminal Code, respectively. However, the first sentence of the former section 53, quoted above, is now
replaced by the first sentence of section 32, Criminal Code reading as follows: "Whoever commits an act
that is necessary for his self-defense does not act unlawfully."
NOTE #2: In respect of the third sentence of subparagraph (b) (9) in conjunction with subparagraph (b)
(4) of the section Re Article 12, SA in the Protocol of Signature, the current widely-held majority opinion
reads as follows: To inflict death upon a thief is not a nece ssary act of defe nse if the article s which the
attacked person risks losing are only of minor value. In the individual case it can be expected in fairness
that defense be relinquished against children, the mentally ill or otherwise against individuals acting with-
out culpability.
