BY ORDER OF THE                                HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
SUPERINTENDENT                                                     PAMPHLET 36-3527

                                                                          24 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                                        Personnel
Personnel

                                                THE OFFICER DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM:
                                               DEVELOPING OFFICERS OF CHARACTER


ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/A5D                                               Certified by: HQ USAFA/A5/8/9
                                                                        (Colonel Kim Hawthorne)
Supersedes: USAFAPAM36-3527, Officer
            Development System: Building Leaders of                                      Pages: 20
           Character, February 2008
______________________________________________________________________________
This pamphlet implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy (USAFA), and describes the purpose and structure of the Officer Development System
(ODS). The ODS is the overarching doctrinal framework for systematic development of USAFA
cadets toward achievement of the Air Force Institutional Competencies and the USAFA
Outcomes. The guidance applies to all Air Force military and civilian personnel assigned to
USAFA in addition to US Air Force Reserve and National Guard personnel assigned to USAFA.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been changed to be consistent with updated Air Force and USAFA
publications. Specifically, Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 1-1, Leadership and Force
Development; Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2014, Commissioning Education; and USAFA
Instruction (USAFAI) 36-3526, Course of Instruction (COI). Publication has been re-titled
Developing Officers of Character consistent with the USAFA mission statement. Foundations of
Character-Based Officership Figure 1 and description have been updated to feature the four
attributes of officership with descriptions. This section was moved from the Glossary to the main
body. Figure 2, USAFA Outcomes, has been updated. Figure 3, ODS/COI/Outcomes
Relationship, has been deleted. The relationship between ODS, the Institutional Competencies
2                                           USAFAPAM36-3527        24 SEPTEMBER 2013

and USAFA Outcomes was codified in the Goal section. Leader of Character has been defined
as developed by the Center for Character and Leadership Development. The Elements of the
Core Values have been removed from the Glossary.
USAFAPAM36-3527 24 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                                                                   3


TABLE OF CONTENTS

Section A, The United States Air Force Academy Officer Development System (ODS)
1. Introduction .................................................................................................................................3
    1.1. Identity ...............................................................................................................................3
    1.2. Commitment ......................................................................................................................3
    1.3. Competencies .....................................................................................................................3

Section B, Character Based Officership Framework
2. Framework ..................................................................................................................................4
   2.1 Foundation ..........................................................................................................................4
   2.2. Constitution ........................................................................................................................6
   2.3. Oath of Office ....................................................................................................................6
   2.4. Air Force Core Values .......................................................................................................7

3. Goal .............................................................................................................................................8

4. Process ......................................................................................................................................10
   4.1. PITO Model .....................................................................................................................11
   4.2. Leadership Growth Model ...............................................................................................13
   4.3. Guiding Principles ...........................................................................................................15

5. Summary ...................................................................................................................................17

6. Conclusion ................................................................................................................................17

Attachment 1 – Glossary of References and Supporting Information ...........................................18

TABLE OF FIGURES

Figure 1 – Foundations of Character Based Officership .................................................................4

Figure 2 – USAFA Outcomes ..........................................................................................................9

Figure 3 – USAFA PITO Model ....................................................................................................12

Figure 4 – Leadership Growth Model ............................................................................................14

Figure 5 – Guiding Principles ........................................................................................................16
4                                                USAFAPAM36-3527          24 SEPTEMBER 2013


Section A, The United States Air Force Academy Officer Development System (ODS)


         “I’m firmly convinced that leaders are not born; they’re educated, trained
         and made, as in every other profession. To ensure a strong and ready Air
         Force, we must always remain dedicated to this process.”

         --General Curtis LeMay, CSAF, 1961-1965


1. The essential and enduring mission of the United States Air Force Academy is, “To educate,
train, and inspire men and women to become officers of character motivated to lead the United
States Air Force in service to our Nation.” The ODS provides all members of the Academy a
framework and set of strategies to accomplish our mission. Three critical objectives embodied in
our Oath of Office—identity, commitment, and competence—support our goal of developing
officers of character. To meet these objectives, the Academy must:

    1.1. Increase each cadet’s appreciation that being an officer is a noble way of life.
    Members contemplating a noble profession should fully understand the identity of their
    profession, particularly the explicit and implicit commitments of service, before dedicating
    themselves to the profession’s code. As a core part of their identity, military officers assume
    the unlimited liability of a solemn oath “to support and defend the Constitution against all
    enemies, foreign and domestic.”          A military officer’s willingness to “defend the
    Constitution” must withstand critical examination in order for his or her commitment to that
    identity to persist and remain genuine. For the commitment to endure over a career, an
    officer must be willing to sacrifice his or her life to defend the profession’s solemn oath.
    Only when a military officer recognizes his or her life is subordinate to the noble calling of
    the oath will the officer sustain the commitment as an integral aspect of his or her identity.

    1.2. Foster a personal commitment to officership. Before they are commissioned, USAFA
    cadets must commit themselves to becoming, embracing, and representing themselves as
    officers of high character. Their commitment includes a reasoned determination to own,
    accept, and display in their daily lives—“without any mental reservation or purpose of
    evasion”—the values of the profession.

    1.3. Develop competencies essential to officers of character. The ODS prescribes the
    ways and means for developing these competencies over a cadet’s four years. It is an
    architecture that will enable Academy graduates to “well and faithfully” discharge their
    duties and serves as the link to established USAF Institutional Competencies and Values.
USAFAPAM36-3527 24 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 5


Section B, Character Based Officership Framework

2. The Character-Based Officer Framework includes three key constructs, ranging from broad
philosophical considerations to practical competencies. These constructs provide answers to the
“why?” (foundation), the “what?” (outcomes), and the “how?” (process) of developing officers
of character. The foundation demonstrates through philosophical reasoning how our
Constitution, Oath of Office, and Core Values mandate character-based officership. The goals
of the Officer Development System, articulated in the USAFA Outcomes, specify the essential
competencies, responsibilities, skills, and knowledge required to produce officers of character.
These Outcomes incorporate both the relevant elements of the Air Force's Institutional
Competency List and the nationally vetted Essential Learning Outcomes for a 21st century
undergraduate education. The process prescribes how USAFA organizes and integrates cadet 4-
year development across the Academy experience. Cadets move through followership and
leadership levels that become progressively broader and more complex as a cadet gains
experience, becomes more responsible, and matures. The ODS process involves all the mission
partners at the Academy and encompasses every dimension of a cadet’s life—intellectual,
professional, physical, ethical, spiritual, and social—while remaining focused on character
development.




       `
                 Figure 1. Foundations of Character-Based Officership.


                             Foundation, Goal, Process

   2.1. The Foundation – “Why.” Character-Based Officership. The identity of an officer of
   character is by necessity broad. An officer’s identity must include an inspirational and
   unshakable core because military members are willing to sacrifice their lives in the course of
   discharging their duties (see Fig. 1.) An officer must establish his or her identity on a stable,
   well-supported foundation linked directly to fundamental principles of the American way of
   life. The Constitution provides the philosophical foundation; the Oath of Office affirms
   one’s commitment to this core set of ideals while the Core Values guide all Airmen. The
   ODS develops officers of character consistent with USAFA Outcomes providing a platform
6                                                USAFAPAM36-3527          24 SEPTEMBER 2013

    for their career long Officership development. Officership is defined as: The embodiment
    of the attributes and expectations of a military officer as demanded by the office he/she
    holds. Officership includes, but is not limited to the following four attributes:

       2.1.1 Warrior Ethos: Warrior Ethos is described in AFDD1-1 as “(exhibiting) a
       hardiness of spirit despite physical and mental hardships—moral and physical courage.”
       It compels one to fight through all conditions to victory, no matter how long it takes and
       no matter how much effort is required. Warrior Ethos is grounded in the refusal to accept
       failure. It is developed and sustained through discipline, example, commitment to the Air
       Force values and pride in the Air Force’s heritage. Warrior Ethos is best articulated in the
       Airman’s Creed:

                        “I am an American Airman; I am a Warrior;
                        I have answered the nation’s call…
                        I am an American Airman; Wingman, Leader, Warrior;
                        I will never leave an Airman behind;
                        I will never falter; I will not fail.”

       Warrior Ethos reminds us that the unlimited liability of the profession of arms may
       require you to sacrifice your life to save others. Warrior Ethos challenges the Air Force
       officer to live a noble life worthy of this ultimate measure of dedication of those who
       have gone before.

       2.1.2 Professional: Members of a profession hold a special place in American society.
       A professional officer embodies a unique competence and experience, authority
       delegated by the nation, and a distinct culture with a recognized code of ethics. Officers
       must never forget that they are public figures accountable to the highest standards of
       personal and professional conduct.

       2.1.3 Leader of Character: Leaders of character demonstrate moral excellence
       reflected in their values and behavior. They set a personal example for all, whether in
       their units, organizations or society. A Leader of Character: 1) Lives honorably by
       consistently practicing the Air Force Core Values; 2) Lifts others to be their best possible
       selves; and 3) Elevates performance to a common and noble purpose.

       2.1.4 Servant of the Nation: Officers serve the Nation for one and only one purpose:
       to support and defend the Constitution of the United States. Our nation places a special
       trust in the officer to provide security and to protect our democratic way of life and its
       values. This unique relationship requires a moral obligation, sense of duty, and total
       commitment. This attribute of officership reflects the relationship between the military
       profession and the nation, embraces the principle of military subordination to civilian
       control, and establishes each officer as a servant of the nation. It creates the moral
       foundation for an officer’s duty. Being a servant of the nation focuses activities on
       furthering the interests of the nation, not the individual.
USAFAPAM36-3527 24 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                   7


        Note: Additional information on officership is contained in The Armed Forces Officer,
        2007 Edition, National Defense University Press, Washington, D.C.


                “Don’t interfere with anything in the Constitution. That must
                be maintained, for it is the only safeguard of our liberties.”
                 - President Abraham Lincoln

  2.2       Constitution – The reason we have a military is to preserve and defend the form of
        government articulated in the Constitution. In its few short paragraphs, it lays out a
        vision of a “government of the people, by the people, [and] for the people”—a vision for
        which courageous men and women throughout our nation’s long history have given their
        all, and in many cases their very lives, to ensure the preservation of this liberty, not just
        for themselves, but also for their families, their friends, and their posterity. By preserving
        and defending the Constitution, the military serves to guarantee these liberties and
        freedoms that we value as Americans. In return, the principles of government and the
        personal freedoms detailed in the Constitution serve as the genesis for military
        officership. For example, the Constitution establishes that the President “shall be
        Commander in Chief” of the armed forces and shall “Commission all the Officers of the
        United States.” This commission from the President, largely unchanged since the
        Revolutionary War, provides both guidance and authority to the military officer. This
        commission also delineates the extent of an officer’s authority and the scope of their
        duty, securing the direct tie between military officership and the American way of life.

                “An officer’s ultimate commanding loyalty at all times is to his
                country and not to his service or to his superiors” - General of
                the Army George C. Marshall

  2.3      Oath of Office – The Air Force Officer’s Oath of Office outlines the commitment of
        officership and formally establishes the moral obligation for officers who act as agents of
        the Nation to “support and defend the Constitution of the United States.” The first
        Congress recognized the oath’s importance by establishing the Oath of Office as its first
        law on 1 June 1789, statute 1, chapter 1: “an act to regulate the time and manner of
        administering certain oaths.” Every cadet makes the solemn promise of the Oath of
        Office during Basic Cadet Training when he or she voluntarily chooses to enter the
        Academy; Oath of Commitment at the start of second class year; and again when the Air
        Force commissions him or her as a Second Lieutenant:
8                                                   USAFAPAM36-3527            24 SEPTEMBER 2013


               “I, FULL NAME, having been appointed a Second Lieutenant, in the United
               States Air Force, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend
               the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and
               domestic, that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I take this
               obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion, and
               that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office upon which I
               am about to enter. So help me God.”

    Only the rank listed in the first line differentiates the Cadet Oath of Office and the Officer’s
    Oath of Office. This voluntary, solemn promise is the basis for duty and ties all officers to
    the Constitutional foundation of officership.

    2.4    United States Air Force Core Values; Integrity First … Service Before Self …
    Excellence in All We Do. - While the Oath of Office defines the commitment inherent in
        officership, the Air Force Core Values are the moral code guiding officers in fulfilling
        their commitment. The Air Force core values are the bedrock of leadership in the Air
        Force, providing the moral framework and principles of conduct within which military
        activities take place. The professional Air Force ethic consists of three fundamental and
        enduring values: integrity, service, and excellence. The Air Force expects each member
        of the service to appreciate and embody these values not only as a set of ideals, but also
        as a guide to daily living and performance. In the dynamic and dangerous modern
        battlespace, where time for leisurely debate rarely presents itself, an Airman does not
        have the luxury of examining the practical complexities of issues that present themselves,
        but must instead react. Therefore, Airmen are expected to fully internalize these core
        values so they can respond appropriately, effectively, and consistently in each situation.
        Conscientious application of the core values allows all Air Force officers to maintain
        integrity, to serve others before self, and to perform with excellence while simultaneously
        encouraging the internalization and expression of these values in others.

       2.4.1     Integrity First. Integrity is the willingness to do what is right even when no one
                 else is looking. It is the “moral compass” the inner voice, the voice of self-
                 control, the basis for the trust imperative in today’s Air Force. Integrity is the
                 single most important part of character. It makes Airmen who they are and
                 what they stand for. Airmen must be professional, both in and out of uniform.
                 Integrity is not a suit that can be taken off at night or on the weekend or worn only
                 when it is important to look good. Instead, it is the time we least expect to be
                 tested when possessing integrity is critical. People are watching, us not to see us
                 fail, but to see us live up to their expectations. An Airman’s word is binding and
                 honesty is the foundation of that trust. Airmen must maintain the moral courage
                 to do what is right even if the personal cost is high. A person with integrity
                 accepts the consequences of actions taken, never accepting or seeking undue
                 credit for the accomplishments of others. Airmen also hold each other
                 accountable for their actions and uniformly enforce standards.

       2.4.2     Service Before Self. As an Air Force core value, service is not about the Air
                 Force institution, it is about an enduring commitment and dedication of the
USAFAPAM36-3527 24 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                  9


               individual Airman to the age-old military virtue of selfless dedication to duty at
               all times and in all circumstances. This includes putting one’s life at risk if called
               to do so. It is a willingness to set aside one’s needs and to make personal
               sacrifices. Airmen understand they have a duty to fulfill the unit’s mission. This
               includes performing to the best of one’s abilities the assigned responsibilities and
               tasks without worrying how a career will be affected. It means Airmen place the
               welfare of their peers and subordinates ahead of their own personal needs or
               comforts. Although Airmen have a duty to the Service they have an equally
               strong duty to their families. The difference is there are times when service to the
               nation requires subordinating the needs of the family. It is the responsibility of the
               Airman to prepare and provide for his or her family when duty requires it. Airmen
               understand they have a duty to fulfill the unit’s mission. This value demands each
               Airman keep “faith” in the system. This does not mean we may not question what
               we are doing or we will blindly follow our leaders without a second thought. It
               means we place our trust in the processes, procedures, and other Airmen to get the
               job done and in the right way.

       2.4.3   Excellence in All We Do. This core value demands Airmen constantly strive to
               perform at their best. It is a commitment to high standards and an understanding
               each Airman has been entrusted with our Nation’s security. Therefore, they must
               always strive to exceed standards objectively based on mission needs and
               continuously search for new and innovative ways to successfully accomplish the
               mission. This does not mean you will be better than everyone else, but that you
               should always do your best and seek continuous improvement. It is not only a
               professional obligation but a moral responsibility as well. No Airman wins the
               fight alone. Each organization should foster a culture emphasizing a team
               mentality while maintaining high standards and accomplishing the mission.
               Airmen should aggressively protect and manage both human and material assets.
               The most precious resource is people, and it is each Airman’s responsibility to
               ensure that he or she is trained, fit, focused, and ready to accomplish the mission
               safely and effectively.


           “A leader leads by example, whether he or she intends to or not.” - Unknown




                              Foundation, Goal, Process

3. The Goal – “What.” The ultimate goal of the Officer Development System is to accomplish
the USAFA mission: “To educate, train, and inspire men and women to become officers of
character motivated to lead the United States Air Force and in service to our Nation.” We do this
by providing cadets with a comprehensive undergraduate education, focused on the profession of
arms, coupled with unique military and athletic training experiences. Each carefully crafted
10                                             USAFAPAM36-3527          24 SEPTEMBER 2013

education and training experience is designed to achieve one or more of USAFA’s four
Outcomes:

                      Ethics and Citizenship
                      Thinking and Acting in a Complex World
                      National Security Through Diverse Perspectives
                      Mental and Physical Resilience

Together these four Outcomes—the “Goals” of the Officer Development System—and the 19
more specific outcomes that support them, provide cadets with the essential competencies,
responsibilities, skills, and knowledge required to produce officers of character—leaders fully
prepared for the rapidly evolving global environment of the 21st century.




                                Figure 2. USAFA Outcomes.

These outcomes provide mission focus for all education, training, and experiences offered at the
Academy; are objectives to measure mission accomplishment (both for individual cadets and the
institution as a whole); and align with priorities of the USAFA Strategic Plan. They allow
USAFAPAM36-3527 24 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                             11


cadets, faculty, and staff to see the direct relationship between programs, policies, courses and
events and the Academy mission.



                              Foundation, Goal, Process

4. The ODS Process - “How.” The way cadets are developed into officers is the final element
linking the process to the goals and to the foundation of officership. The ODS process gives
direction for achieving the desired outcomes in support of the foundation. Thus, how cadets are
developed is fully guided by what the Academy and the Air Force expect as Officers of
character. These Officers of character have internalized a foundational identity, in which they
understand why uniformed service to the Nation is a noble pursuit. The Academy serves as the
initial phase of a decades-long process to develop such leaders for the Air Force. Therefore,
cadets must graduate with a solid foundation in the tactical elements of Force Development—a
commitment to the Core Values; strong personal, interpersonal, team and organizational
leadership abilities; and a foundation of the responsibilities, skills and knowledge that support
further development at the operational and strategic leadership levels. To be successful, this
process must rely on a series of experiences and challenges combined with education and
training opportunities consistent with Force Development used throughout the Air Force.


      “To each there comes in their lifetime, a special moment when they are
      figuratively tapped on the shoulder and offered the chance to do a very
      special thing, unique to them and fitted to their talents. What a tragedy if
      that moment finds them unprepared or unqualified for what could have
      been their finest hour.” – Sir Winston Churchill

To achieve the USAFA Outcomes, officers of character are developed through a deliberate
process using three well defined components: the Personal, Interpersonal, Team,
Organizational (PITO) Model; the Leadership Growth Model (LGM); and the Guiding
Principles.

   The PITO model describes and defines the competencies for each level of the cadet
   developmental process. These competencies support every aspect of the cadet experience.
   PITO model is explained in paragraph 4.1 below.

   The LGM is a highly interactive developmental leadership model in the ODS. The LGM
   depicts how the leader and follower collaboratively approach the education, training,
   experiences and challenges that develop the leader competencies in the PITO model. The
   LGM is explained in paragraph 4.2 below.

   The Guiding Principles provide general guidance governing how the ODS process is
   developed and implemented at USAFA. These principles are important to ensure a consistent
   developmental approach by everyone who influences cadet development: staff, faculty and
   cadets primarily, but also base support, sponsors, parents and those outside the Academy
12                                                   USAFAPAM36-3527          24 SEPTEMBER 2013

     involved in the summer developmental programs off base, such as Ops Air Force. The
     Guiding Principles are explained in paragraph 4.3 below

            “Freedom to be your best means nothing unless you’re willing to do your
            best”- General (ret) Colin Powell

     4.1      The PITO Model - Cadets must internalize foundational, personal elements before
           they can successfully execute interpersonal leadership skills. Subsequent success
           leading teams depends on both personal leadership and the ability to lead people.
           Finally, the ability to lead an organization is dependent upon all three previous levels.
           Each level requires distinct competencies and builds on the previous competencies. To
           build progressive competencies, the program must involve all the mission partners at the
           Academy and encompass every dimension of a cadet’s life—intellectual, professional,
           physical, ethical, spiritual, and social—while concurrently contributing to character
           development.

           4.1.1   The emphasis of ODS will vary in each phase of the cadets’ experience, focusing
                   first on the development of personal leadership competencies before shifting to an
                   increased emphasis on interpersonal and team leadership skills and culminating in
                   skills necessary to lead at the organizational level. In support of this
                   developmental growth plan, the competencies from the appropriate level of
                   followership and leadership (Personal, Interpersonal, Team, and Organizational)
                   are defined for each phase of the cadet development process and are supported by
                   every aspect of the cadet experience.

           4.1.2   The competencies within each level of leadership reflect the capacity, maturity
                   and experiences of the cadets as they progress through the ODS. They emphasize
                   primary skills at each level of cadet leadership, but they also emphasize the
                   continual need to practice and broaden those skills learned at earlier stages in the
                   ODS. In addition, for growth to occur, each cadet must take the time and effort
                   during each stage of development to provide and receive feedback and reflect on
                   that feedback.

           4.1.3   By correlating and linking competencies to cadet classes and levels of leadership,
                   any interaction can be designed to enhance the development experience for all
                   participants. For example, by working together, a fourth class cadet can focus on
                   developing as a loyal follower (a personal leadership quality) while a second class
                   cadet is developing as a leader who builds and inspires an effective team.

           4.1.4   While the PITO Model focuses each year of development in a deliberate manner,
                   the nature of officer development demands flexibility. Therefore, while the
                   primary emphasis of each year will align with the deliberate building blocks,
                   opportunities exist throughout the Academy experience for cadets to test their
                   competencies beyond the emphasis for that year. The value of exposure to
                   higher-level competencies early in the Academy experience will only enrich a
USAFAPAM36-3527 24 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                         13


             cadet’s appreciation of how interdependent these competencies are. Figure 3.
             below depicts an interdependent approach and identifies some of the key
             supporting competencies.




                                 Figure 3. USAFA PITO Model

     4.1.5   By carefully mapping the leadership objectives for each cadet, the ODS provides
             a progressive, deliberate process tailored to meet individual needs. This
             deliberate approach enriches the interaction for all cadets, accelerating the
             developmental process. The progressive nature of developing officer
             competencies mirrors the Force Development architecture for the Air Force,
             which is based on the premise of personal leadership, leading people, leading
             teams, and organizational leadership and is designed to complement the Air Force
             ICL to develop Airmen throughout a career.
14                                               USAFAPAM36-3527          24 SEPTEMBER 2013


       In many ways great followership is harder than great leadership. It has more dangers
       and fewer rewards, and it must routinely be exercised with much more subtlety –
       Warren Bennis – Professor, University of Southern California


     4.2 The Leadership Growth Model. Becoming officers of character depends upon a four-
        year process of character development that integrates, explores, and enforces the Air
        Force Core Values while simultaneously encouraging leadership development. Because
        of the changing nature of threats facing our Nation, helping cadets develop into officers
        of character is more important and more challenging than ever. All military services
        believe developing greater adaptability in the face of changing threats is a key priority.
        Because no single method or style of leadership is universally effective in dealing with
        the variety of expected situations officers will confront, let alone new and unexpected
        challenges, graduates will need to have a broad repertoire of leadership skills and
        perspectives to fulfill their responsibilities as officers.

        4.2.1   Cadets must develop their skills and perspectives as both leaders and followers
                because they will serve simultaneously in both capacities at the Academy in the
                same way officers serve as both leaders and followers at every level in the Air
                Force.

        4.2.2   Graduates will face a wide variety of known and unknown challenges. To prepare
                them for their unique challenges as officers, we must develop them as leaders and
                followers who have had opportunity to experience and explore a variety of
                challenges in an environment intended to deepen and enrich their learning from
                those experiences. The LGM ensures the Academy provides an environment
                where cadets capitalize on opportunities to practice (and have real experience)
                being leaders and being led.

        4.2.3   The LGM defines the key relationships among leaders, followers, and the
                situation in terms of a four-stage, continuous process. The model is universally
                applicable throughout all phases of the Academy experience across the entire
                education, training, and experiential spectrum—in the classroom, the squadron,
                and on the athletic field. The LGM applies equally well to the educator, trainer,
                coach, element leader, and commander. For example, the model provides a
                framework for interaction between an upper-class cadet coaching a fourth class
                cadet on how to improve military bearing; an academic instructor assisting a cadet
                struggling with mastering a concept in class, and an athletic coach developing the
                stamina, skill, and drive of a team member.

        4.2.4   By integrating education, training and experience to provide all cadets with
                deliberately designed opportunities to develop, the LGM facilitates the attainment
                of the Academy’s outcomes. Using a hierarchical leadership system, aligned with
                the Air Force rank structure, each cadet develops through the supervisory
                relationship. A supervisory relationship focuses on personal competencies,
                including interpersonal skills and proficiency leading teams. Tailored to promote
USAFAPAM36-3527 24 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                           15


             development, this multi-stage officer development model outlines the broad
             expectations and specific requirements of the supervisory relationship.


     4.2.5   The chart in Fig. 4 details the five stages of the LGM: Expectations and
             Inspiration, Instruction, Feedback, and Reflection. In the first stage, the leader
             critically appraises the situation, his or her own skills, and the skills of the
             follower; the leader then sets developmental expectations with the follower. The
             leader also provides inspiration to the follower by developing a shared
             understanding of purpose. In the next stage, the leader provides the essential
             instruction to help the follower meet the leader’s, follower’s, and organization’s
             expectations and objectives.




                                 Figure 4. Leadership Growth Model.




                                   Fig. 4. Leadership Growth Model
16                                                     USAFAPAM36-3527           24 SEPTEMBER 2013

                     [Note: The instruction as defined above includes training, education, and
                     experiences all cadets are exposed to during the course of their development.] As
                     the follower works toward these objectives, the leader coaches and mentors the
                     follower, assesses the follower’s competency and provides feedback throughout
                     their engagement. The leader, during the instruction and feedback stages, must
                     integrate coaching and mentoring techniques to help bridge the gap between
                     expectations and results. Finally, the reflection stage (where the leader and
                     follower review their expectations, instructions, and feedback) crystallizes any
                     lessons learned and prepares participants to enter the next cycle. In an ideal
                     scenario, a participant will progress from the bottom of the chart (Figure 4) to the
                     top of the spiral and then begin again at a higher level of expectations and
                     inspiration. However, the participants in any situation must understand the
                     boundaries between stages may be blurred and some phases may need to be
                     repeated.

           4.2.6     The spiral graphic linking stages of the model suggests a highly interactive and
                     positive growth process that expands the skill and capability of both the leader
                     and follower. Over time and much iteration, an interactive supervisory process
                     can result in transformational change and growth in the leader and follower; the
                     leader and follower will not merely improve their behavioral conformance to
                     standards of performance, but become independent leaders who embody skills
                     necessary for effective officership. The rate at which each participant develops
                     depends on their relative skills, their relationship with the leader, and the quality
                     of each prior stage.


                   “Tell me and I’ll forget; show me and I may remember; involve me and I’ll
                   understand.” - Chinese proverb


     4.3       Guiding Principles - Putting PITO and LGM models into practice requires a cross
           mission partner strategy capitalizing on the talents of staff, faculty and cadets. The
           challenge is to ensure all policies, procedures, standards, and expectations reinforce and
           support leader development within the PITO model. While the outcomes represent the
           goals and experiences of the ODS, the guiding principles represent the rules of
           engagement. As such, principles define how we expect to achieve our targeted outcomes.
           The Guiding Principles are to be used by staff, faculty and cadets to design the education,
           training and experiences within the Course of Instruction (COI). The Guiding Principles
           also serve as a basis to assess alignment with ODS both within and among the Mission
           Partners while implementing the COI at USAFA.
USAFAPAM36-3527 24 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                      17



   1) Align the USAFA experience with accepted USAF practices.

   2) Emphasize cadet ownership and accountability for their own development.

   3) Ensure all leaders and followers gain from each developmental experience,
   including both successes and failures.

   4) Establish a common core of experiences and multiple paths to similar outcomes.

   5) Strike an appropriate balance between quality and quantity of development
   experiences.

   6) Create depth of expertise sequentially and progressively based on a cadet’s
   developmental level using the PITO model.

   7) Couple adequate support with every challenge; tailor every challenge with an
   appreciation that cadets develop differently and will move through the process at
   different speeds.

   8) Use goal-oriented and standards-based approaches to build skill-set expertise.

   9) Assess the effectiveness of education, training and experiential processes.




                            Figure 5. The Guiding Principles.
18                                             USAFAPAM36-3527         24 SEPTEMBER 2013

5 Summary –For the ODS to be effective, the daily education, training and experiences of
cadet life must be aligned and connected with the framework of the ODS. Deliberately and
consistently applying the strategies and philosophy of the ODS provides the integrated and
synergistic way to guide cadets through the process of becoming officers of character. Cadets
will gain an appreciation of the nobility inherent in character-based officership. The three
components of the ODS framework—foundation, goals, and process—support cadet
development through the stages of the PITO model and help them reach their ultimate goal:
serve the nation as a United States Air Force officer with exemplary character and masterful
competence.


        “The Officer Corps is the heart and soul of any military organization.
        It must be the reservoir of character and integrity, the fountainhead of
        professional competence and the dynamo of Leadership”

        --General Matthew B. Ridgeway


6 Conclusion - The best officers are those who are committed to an ideal, accept challenges
with optimism, and are dedicated to continued personal and professional growth. A cadet’s
experiences in the Air Force Academy’s ODS will prepare him or her to lead Airmen as an
officer of character. In the operational Air Force, a complex global community and the
challenges of modern officership will confront graduating cadets with unique opportunities to
rely on the training and the skills they developed at the Academy.




                                             MICHELLE D. JOHNSON, Lt General, USAF
                                             Superintendent
USAFAPAM36-3527 24 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 19


                                          Attachment 1

          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References

AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, 8 Nov 2011
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 25 May 2011
AFI 36-2014, Commissioning Education Program, 15 July 2013
USAFAI 36-3526, Course of Instruction, 2 Nov 2012

Abbreviations

AFMAN – Air Force Manual
AFMD – Air Force Mission Directive
AFPD – Air Force Policy Directive
COI – Course of Instruction
ICL – Institutional Competency List
FD – Force Development
LGM – Leadership Growth Model
ODS – Officer Development System
USAFA – United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI – United States Air Force Academy Instruction

Explanation of Terms

Action-Observation-Reflection and the Spiral of Personal Growth – Model of personal
development published by Hughes, Richard L., Ginnett, Robert C., and Curphy, Gordon J.,
Leadership – Enhancing the Lessons of Experience, 4th Ed., New York: McGraw-Hill/Irwin,
2002, pg. 49.

Glossary of Terms

Character: One’s moral compass--the sum of those qualities of moral excellence which move a
person to do the right thing despite pressures to the contrary. (AFDD1-1)

Competencies: Clusters of knowledge, skills, abilities and attributes an individual
possesses to successfully perform consistent with a given task, condition, and standard.

Force Development: A deliberate series of challenging experiences combined with education
and training opportunities directed at producing Airmen who possess the tactical expertise,
operational competence, and strategic vision to lead and execute the full spectrum of Air Force
missions both today and tomorrow.

Leader of Character: A Leader who: 1) Lives honorably by consistently practicing the Air
Force Core Values; 2) Lifts others to their best possible selves and 3) Elevates performance to a
20                                             USAFAPAM36-3527         24 SEPTEMBER 2013

common and noble purpose. (Center for Character and Leadership Development Conceptual
Framework)

Leadership: The art and science of motivating, influencing, and directing Airmen to understand
and accomplish the Air Force mission.(AFDD 1-1)

Moral Codes: A complex set of definitions to determine right and wrong based upon well-
defined value systems.
