BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                              ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 24-103

                                                                                     1 JULY 2009
                                                  Incorporating Through Change 2, 24 October 2013
                                                             Certified Current on 16 August 2011
                                                                                  Transportation

                                                   FOOTBALL TEAM CHARTER AIRCRAFT
                                                                     MANAGEMENT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/ADSL                                                 Certified by: HQ USAFA/ADS
                                                                     (Mr. Wayne H. Kellenbence)
Supersedes:    USAFAI24-103,                                                            Pages: 8
               21 August 2006


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-1, Personnel Movement, and
references AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement, by establishing procedures for management of the
charter aircraft that is used to transport the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) Football
Team. It applies to all USAFA personnel and other personnel not employed at USAFA who may
fly on a charter aircraft with the football team. Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363),
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

The Air Force Vice Chief of Staff (HQ USAF/CV), in his 29 Sep 99 letter, has granted approval
authority to the Superintendent to determine passenger eligibility on Air Force Academy Athletic
Association (AFAAA) procured charter aircraft. The Secretary of the Air Force General Counsel
(SAF/GC) memorandum, dated 28 Sep 00, states “…the Academy Athletic Department could
transport its intercollegiate football team and associated staff to away games on scheduled
airlines. However, charter travel is also authorized for this purpose, is competitive from the cost
perspective, provides greater flexibility for moving the 155-person official party as a group, and
significantly reduces the disruption to the athletes’ academic studies. Having concluded that
charter travel is authorized and effective for this purpose…” SAF/GC letter, dated 28 Sep 00,
“…the Superintendent has authority to adopt reasonable criteria and procedures for passenger
 2                                                                  USAFAI24-103 1 JULY 2009


eligibility on the Air Force Academy Athletic Association (AFAAA) charter aircraft.” These
criteria and procedures are set forth in this instruction.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates Football Team Charter management because of the advent of the
Air Force Academy Athletic Corporation (AFAAC) margin bar (|) indicates revisions from the
previous edition.

(USAFA) This interim change updates Football Team Charter management because of the
advent of the Air Force Academy Athletic Corporation (AFAAC) margin bar (|) indicates
revisions from the previous edition.
1. Official Travel Party. The official travel party consists of personnel who are necessary to be
in attendance to support the successful execution of a Division 1A football game. The USAFA
Football Team deploys with an official travel party as shown in Table 1.

Table 1. OFFICIAL TRAVEL PARTY.
        Superintendent of the United States Air Force Academy
        Director of Athletics
        Senior Associate Athletic Director
        Associate Athletic Director for Sports Medicine
        Associate Athletic Director for Recruiting Support
        Associate Athletic Director for Communications
        Chief, Football Operations
        Medical and Athletic Training Staff
        Equipment Managers
        Audio/Visual Staff
        Athletic Department Football Coaching Staff
        Football Players
        Media (Radio Broadcasting Crew)
        Tutors (When Required)
        Officer Representatives
        NCAA Faculty Athletic Representative
     1.1. Guest of the Official Travel Party. Members of the official travel party may request
     approval to have a guest accompany them on a trip. The cost of the guest’s travel expense is
     paid by the official travel party member. Guest travel is considered on a space available
     basis. It is the primary traveler’s responsibility to ensure the guest’s travel and lodging
     arrangements are coordinated with the Chief, Football Operations (USAFA/ADSL). The
     final approval authority for all guest travel is through the manifest approval process listed in
     paragraph 3.
2. Authorized Travel Party. The authorized travel party consists of USAFA personnel and
guests whose official capacity enables them to directly support the intercollegiate program and
contribute to the successful execution of Division 1A football program. Members of this party as
shown in Table 2, are eligible to travel with the team when recommended by the Director of
Athletics (USAFA/AD) and approved IAW paragraph 3.
USAFAI24-103 1 JULY 2009                                                                    3


Table 2. AUTHORIZED TRAVEL PARTY.
     Vice Superintendent
     Vice Athletic Director
     Deputy Athletic Director/Head, Physical Education Department
     Associate Athletic Director/Senior Women’s Administrator
     Associate Athletic Director for Support
     Aide to the Superintendent
     AFAAC Contract Coaches
     AFAAC (Air Force Academy Athletic Corporation/Corporate Sponsors)
     AFAAC Contract Coaches’ Spouses/Dependent Children
     Assigned members of the Academy
     Superintendent’s Guests
     Team Chaplain
  2.1. Guests of the Authorized Travel Party. Members of the authorized travel party may
  request approval to have a guest accompany them on a trip. The cost of the guest travel
  expense is paid by the authorized travel party member. Guest travel is considered on a space
  available basis. It is the primary traveler’s responsibility to ensure the guest travel and
  lodging arrangements are coordinated with the Chief, Football Operations (USAFA/ADSL).
  The final approval authority for all guest travel is through the manifest approval process
  listed in paragraph 3.
  2.2. AFAAC/Corporate Sponsors/Corporate Guests: Personnel will have a Letter of
  identification accomplished for travel on the charter aircraft.
     2.2.1. Travel Funding: The AFAAC was created by statute (10 U.S.C. § 9362)
     specifically “to support the athletic programs of the Academy” and, in that capacity and
     through a Cooperative Agreement with USAFA, serves as Athletic Department’s Public
     Relations, Corporate Sponsorship, Booster, and Community relations arm. As such,
     AFAAC employees and contractors (including Corporate Sponsors/Corporate Guests) are
     authorized to travel on the Football Team charter on a non-reimbursable basis. SAF/GC
     stated in the memorandum dated 28 Sep 00, “AFAAA’s proposal to offer charter seats on
     a non-reimbursable basis to Academy Booster Club members, civic leaders, and
     corporate sponsors may be authorized under the Academy’s public relations program.
     Booster Club members and corporate sponsors very likely have contributed to the
     AFAAA in amounts exceeding the value of the offered transportation, and it is the
     official business of the AFAAA to encourage and nurture financial support.”
     2.2.2. DELETE.
  2.3. Spouse Travel.
     2.3.1. Contract Coaches’ Spouse Travel. Contract coaches’ spouses are entitled to travel
     to one away contest each season in accordance with the AFAAC coaches’ contract. The
     coach may substitute a dependent child if the spouse cannot accompany the coach with
     approval of the Director of Athletics. The head football coach’s spouse is authorized to
     travel to each away game per his AFAAC contract. TDY orders are not authorized for
     AFAAC contract coaches or their spouses as this entitlement is only allowed under the
     individual coach’s contract. Reimbursement will be IAW current AFAAC contract
 4                                                                 USAFAI24-103 1 JULY 2009


        reimbursement procedures for contractor travel. Spousal expenses will be claimed on a
        separate invoice submitted to the AFAAC’s Business office with the applicable coach’s
        invoice. Individual AFAAC contract coaches and their spouses will both be on a separate
        Contract letter of identification for each trip. For further information and guidance on
        contractor travel see the JFTR, Appendix E and the Federal Acquisition Regulation
        paragraph 31.205-46.
            2.3.1.1. A child is defined as an unmarried child, stepchild, adopted child or
            illegitimate child (parentage established in accordance with service criteria) under the
            age of 21.
               2.3.1.1.1. An unmarried child under the age of 23 who is enrolled in a full-time
               course of study in an institution of higher education and dependent on the member
               for more than one half of his or her support is eligible to travel.
               2.3.1.1.2. Unmarried child of any age incapable of self-support because of mental
               or physical incapacity and dependent on the member for over half of his or her
               support is eligible to travel.
        2.3.2. Official Representation by Spouses. Pursuant to guidance contained in DoDD
        4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility, DoDD 4500.56, DoD Policy on the Use of
        Government Aircraft and Air Travel, and AFI 24-101, spouses may travel with their
        sponsor at government expense only when there is an unquestionable official requirement
        in which the spouse will actually participate in the function requiring the travel, or it is
        deemed by proper authority in the national interest because of a diplomatic or public
        relations benefit to the country. A request for a spouse to travel at government expense
        must be submitted through HQ USAFA/CC for approval by the Chief of Staff of the Air
        Force (CSAF) or HQ USAF/CV. If approved, each spouse is issued an invitational travel
        order which authorizes funded travel only; no per diem or other reimbursements are
        authorized.
        2.3.3. Unofficial Spouse Travel. See Paragraphs 1.1 and 2.1.
     2.4. Guests of the Superintendent. The Superintendent can designate guests each game
     that are authorized to travel in support of the football program. Guests are USAFA military
     and civilian personnel who are selected by USAFA mission element commanders, Direct
     Reporting Unit directors, and tenant unit commanders from units assigned or attached to
     USAFA. Travel, lodging and incidental expenses are paid from the Superintendent’s
     Operation and Maintenance account.
3. Manifest Approval. The final travel manifest is consolidated by the Directorate of Athletics’
Intercollegiate Logistics Office (USAFA/ADSL) and forwarded to the Associate Athletic
Director for Support (USAFA/ADS). Upon review, the manifest is forwarded via e-mail through
USAFA/AD to the Staff Judge Advocate (HQ USAFA/JA) for final review. The USAFA Legal
Office (HQ USAFA/JA) will determine if HQ USAFA/CC review is required. Only mission
essential changes will be made to the manifest less than 36 hours prior to departure.
4. Orders. When appropriated funds are used, employees and members shall use the Defense
Travel System (DTD) for travel authorization and payment. USAFA/ADSL will accomplish
NAF TDY orders for those personnel assigned to AD to include players, tutors and officer
representatives. AFAAC Contract Coaches and AFAAC/Corporate Sponsors and their guests
USAFAI24-103 1 JULY 2009                                                                     5


will have a Letter of Identification accomplished in order to travel upon the charter aircraft.
Orders for authorized guests traveling on NAF invitational orders will be accomplished by
USAFA/ADSL. Unofficial travelers under paragraph 1.1 and 2.1 above are not authorized to be
placed on any type of TDY order.
   4.1. TDY Funding. TDY funding will be provided using either appropriated funds (APF) or
   nonappropriated funds. Both NAF and APF TDY must indicate any transportation, lodging
   and meals provided “in-kind” at no cost to the traveler. The amount paid for meals and
   lodging may not exceed the locality rate without proper Actual Expense Allowance (AEA)
   approval.
   4.2. Football Players. Football players normally travel on NAF blanket travel orders for
   each fiscal year. However, players are authorized direct APF support for away contests.
   These blanket orders should include travel in a “group” travel status with transportation,
   quarters and meals provided without charge.
   4.3. Travel Voucher. All travelers on published TDY orders, NAF or APF, must submit a
   DD Form 1351-12, Travel Voucher or Sub-Voucher, upon completion of travel. Group travel
   vouchers must be submitted for the football players’ travel.
5. Logistics Requirements. The Directorate of Athletics is responsible for all logistics (to
include hotel, bus rental and rental vehicles) for the required and authorized travel party.
Intercollegiate Logistics Office (USAFA/ADSL) works in conjunction with United States
Transportation Command (USTRANSCOM) and Headquarters Air Mobility Command
(HQ AMC) to procure the charter aircraft.
   5.1. Charter Aircraft Requirements. Charter aircraft are scheduled to meet the specific
   needs of the football team.
       5.1.1. Meals and Beverages. Meal and beverage requirements are coordinated with the
       charter company to ensure that the Directorate of Athletics purchases only the amount
       that is used to feed all personnel on the plane. Cost of aircraft meal for unofficial
       travelers will be included in their travel cost.
       5.1.2. Departure and Arrival. Departure and arrival times are coordinated between
       HQ AMC, the Directorate of Athletics, and the charter company.
       5.1.3. Landing and Transportation. Landing locations and transportation of the
       official party are specifically tailored to meet the team requirements.
       5.1.4. Security. Security procedures are in accordance with HQ AMC guidance for
       security of government procured aircraft and troop movements.
6. Space Available Travelers. Empty seats on the charter aircraft may be made available for
purchase based on space availability.
   6.1. Seat Availability: Any excess seats on the charter aircraft that are not being utilized
   can, at the discretion of the Director of Athletics, be made available to members of the
   following groups: USAFA personnel, AD staff, AFAAC/Corporate Sponsors, other affinity
   groups, association or foundations that provide support to USAFA athletics, parents and
   family members of players and coaches, season ticket holders, etc. These seats will be made
   available only on a space available, reimbursable basis.
 6                                                                   USAFAI24-103 1 JULY 2009


     6.2. Reimbursable Costs: Cost for any reimbursable seat on the charter aircraft will be
     established on a per capita basis (total cost of charter divided by number of seats).
     USAFA/ADSL will, in coordination with the Commercial Ticketing Office (CTO),
     determine current rates for airline tickets. If the prevailing industry rate is lower than the per
     capita cost, the Directorate of Athletics’ Associate Athletic Director for Resources
     (USAFA/ADF) may recommend to the Superintendent, through the AFAAA Advisory
     Council, a set rate determined to be economically advantageous to AFAAA and IAW DoD
     policy. All travel costs for official and unofficial travelers must be paid in advance of travel.

7. Moved to Attachment 1.

                                                DR. HANS J. MUEH
                                                Director of Athletics
USAFAI24-103 1 JULY 2009                                                          7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement
AFPD 24-1, Personnel Movement
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFMAN 64-302, USAFA Supplement 1, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Contracting Procedures
DoDD 4500.56, DoD Policy on the Use of Government Aircraft and Air Travel
DoDD 4515.13-R, Air Transportation Eligibility

Adopted Forms

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DoD Personnel
DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Subvoucher

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFAAA—Air Force Academy Athletic Association
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—US Air Force Reserve
AMC—Air Mobility Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AOG—Association of Graduates
CAP—Civil Air Patrol
CSAF—Chief of Staff of the Air Force
CTO—Commercial Ticketing Office
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDD—Department of Defense Directive
DTS—Defense Travel System
JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulation
NAF—Nonappropriated Funds
 8                                                  USAFAI24-103 1 JULY 2009


NCAA—National Collegiate Athletic Association
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF/GC—Secretary of the Air Force General Council
TDY—Temporary Duty
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USTRANSCOM—United States Transportation Command
