BY ORDER OF THE                                              HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                              ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3509

                                                                            5 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                         EXTRA INSTRUCTION FOR CADETS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/DFRC                                                         Certified by: USAFA/DFR
                                                                                (Dr. Harold Taylor)
Supersedes:    USAFAI 36-3509,                                                             Pages: 5
               29 March 2005


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy and establishes procedures concerning extra instruction (EI) for cadets. It applies to
personnel who help cadets receive EI, as appropriate, and to the cadets. The Dean of Faculty is
the authority to waive requirements in this publication. All requests to waive requirements
should come through Student Academic Affairs and Registrar’s Office, forward to the Vice
Dean, and Dean of Faculty for final decision. This publication does not apply to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has had major revisions and should be carefully reviewed. This revision
removes all reference to Hospital Instruction (HI) since the 10th Medical Group is no longer a
hospital, but a clinic and no longer has overnight beds available. New title of instruction will be:
Extra Instruction for Cadets.
 2                                                       USAFAI36-3509 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


1. Scheduling EI:
     1.1. Cadet participation in EI is normally voluntary. However, EI may be directed by the
     instructor, academic advisor, Associate Air Officer Commanding for Academics (AAOCA),
     or the Academic Review Committees (ARC) as part of the academic “get well” program.
     1.2. Cadets who request EI must attend at the time and place designated unless canceled or
     rescheduled. Cadets must prepare for their EI sessions by completing all reading or
     homework assignments beforehand.
     1.3. Scheduled intramural practice, competition, and both off-season and on-season
     intercollegiate practice take precedence over EI. Cadets must have approval to miss
     intramural or intercollegiate activities.
     1.4. Academic departments will schedule EI according to the official schedule of calls.
     Cadets may make arrangements with the instructor to attend EI during any period that does
     not conflict with their military training, academic, intramural, reconditioning (RECONDO)
     or intercollegiate schedule. No extra instruction will be scheduled during evening academic
     call to quarters (ACQ), after 1900. Work not introduced in class or in the textbooks will
     normally not be discussed during EI.
     1.5. EI will not normally be conducted on the second floor (A-block) and the sixth floor of
     Fairchild Hall on weekends, and before 0700 or after 1700 on weekdays. If EI is conducted
     during these non-duty times, the instructor providing EI will escort the cadet at all times on
     the sixth floor or second floor (A-block) of Fairchild Hall. EI may be scheduled at cadet
     request and with instructor agreement in any other location, except the cadet dormitories.
     However, anytime EI is scheduled outside Fairchild Hall all potentially interested cadets will
     be invited to attend.
     1.6. If a cadet’s schedule conflicts with his or her instructor’s free periods, the course
     director for the affected course will assist by finding another instructor to handle the EI
     request.
     1.7. Academic departments will not schedule EI on the day prior to a graded review or
     during final examination week. However, a cadet may seek individual help from an
     instructor at any time prior to a graded review or final examination.
     1.8. Instructors are encouraged to work with cadets hospitalized in local military or civilian
     medical facilities.
     1.9. If bed rest exceeds 24 hours, cadets may receive EI and take exams in their dorm rooms.
     1.10. Instructors administering exams to cadets on bed rest will secure all academic
     materials.
2. Procedures for EI:
     2.1. Academic department heads will establish procedures to conduct and record EI within
     their respective departments.
     2.2. Verbal permission is required from the following individuals before a cadet may request
     EI:
        2.2.1. AOC, to miss military training.
USAFAI36-3509 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               3


     2.2.2. Chief, Intramural Division, to miss intramural practice/competition and intramural
     contests the cadet is officiating.
     2.2.3. Coach, to miss intercollegiate practice.
     2.2.4. Flight Surgeon or attending physician, squadron Air Officer Commanding (AOC)
     and the department’s academic course director if the cadet is on bed rest and is receiving
     EI in the dorm room.
     2.2.5. RECONDO Officer in Charge (OIC), to miss RECONDO.
  2.3. Cadets unable to attend a scheduled EI session may cancel the session without penalty
  by providing sufficient advance notice to the instructor or the department secretary.
  Instructors will discipline cadets who fail to show for EI without sufficient advance notice.
  2.4. Any instructor who provides EI to a cadet whose name appears on the mid-semester or
  end-of-semester ARC Records Review Roster or who is currently deficient in that course
  must document the EI sessions on the Comment Card.




                                           ANDREW ARMACOST, Brig Gen, USAF
                                           Dean of the Faculty
 4                                                    USAFAI36-3509 5 SEPTEMBER 2014


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 25 May 2011
Title X, United States Code, Section 9331 (Establishment, Superintendent, Faculty) and
Executive Order 9337, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating to Individual Persons,
November 22, 1943
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAOCA—Associate Air Officer Commanding for Academics
ACQ—Academic Call to Quarters
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
ARC—Academic Review Committees
EI—Extra Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy

Terms
Bed rest—The examining physician may place cadets, who are ill or injured, but not
hospitalized, on bed rest status. Bed rest is normally for a 24-hour period, but the attending
physician may extend it if necessary.
Extra Instruction (EI)—In addition to regularly scheduled classes, EI is available to cadets. EI
assists cadets who want to improve their performance by supplementing regular academic
instruction. EI scheduled by the instructor for his or her convenience often involves more than
one cadet. The cadet usually requests individual cadet EI and is generally between an instructor
and one cadet.
USAFAI36-3509 5 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                             5


Medical Clearance—Cadets are medically cleared to resume academics by the attending
physician’s approval. Once medically cleared to study, cadets assume responsibility for
maintaining academic proficiency. Cadets must then attend all scheduled classes. Cadets will
immediately notify the attending physician if they are unable to study or attend all classes.
