BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                              ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-701

                                                                           30 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                     THREATS OF VIOLENCE BY CIVILIAN
                                                                         EMPLOYEES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 FSS/FSMA                                                        Certified by: 10 FSS/FSM
                                                                         (Mr. Michael D. Beeson)
Supersedes:    USAFAI36-701,                                                              Pages: 3
               14 November 2000


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-7, Employee and Labor-
Management Relations, and establishes supervisory responsibilities and procedures used in
dealing with threats of violence by civilian employees. It applies to all appropriated and
nonappropriated fund civilian employees and their supervisors. This publication does not apply
to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)          Records        Disposition        Schedule        (RDS)          located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates office symbols throughout and the certifying/approving officials. The
opening paragraph was updated to include statements as required by AFI 33-360, Publications
and Forms Management and adds Attachment 1. No content is changing.
1. What is a Threat of Violence? A threat of violence is a specific threat to physically harm
another person or to damage property. It is usually expressed verbally, but certain gestures
can constitute a threat, especially if a weapon is displayed.
 2                                                       USAFAI36-701 30 NOVEMBER 2011


2. Disciplinary Action. The Air Force Academy has a long-standing policy not to tolerate
threats of violence. Appropriate disciplinary action will be taken against any employee who is
found to have made such a threat of violence, or to have committed an act of violence. Also, any
supervisor who fails to take timely and appropriate action in response to a threat will be subject
to disciplinary action.
3. Responsibilities and Procedures:
     3.1. If possible, the first-level supervisor must immediately inform a higher-management
     official within the organization of the situation, the Employee Assistance Program Manager,
     and the Employee Management Relations Section (10 FSS/FSMC).
     3.2. If the supervisor believes the threat is one of imminent and potentially significant
     violence, then the following steps should be taken:
        3.2.1. Call 10th Security Forces (10 SFS) (extension 3-2000) for assistance in preventing
        violence and to escort the employee off base.
        3.2.2. Place the employee on Excused Absence (a temporary, nonduty pay status without
        charge to leave). This is a precautionary measure intended to help defuse a potentially
        dangerous situation. It is not a disciplinary action, nor does it constitute barment. 10
        FSS/FSMC should coordinate placement on Administrative Leave.
        3.2.3. Contact 10 FSS/FSMC or, if a nonappropriated fund (NAF) employee is involved,
        the Human Resources Office (10 FSS/FSMH). If the incident takes place outside the
        normal tour of duty for the Academy, contact 10 FSS/FSMC or 10 FSS/FSMH, as
        appropriate, during the next duty day.
            3.2.3.1. A threat serious enough to require placing the employee in a nonduty pay
            status presumably is serious enough to consider severe disciplinary action. 10
            FSS/FSMC will provide guidance regarding adverse-action procedures, if such action
            is warranted. If required, the supervisor may initiate barment from the Academy
            through 10 SFS.
            3.2.3.2. If the supervisor determines the threat is not serious enough to require
            placing the employee in a nonduty pay status, there may be a need to temporarily
            detail the employee to another worksite, away from the person threatened. Such
            detail action would normally not exceed 5 workdays. The incident should be reported
            both to 10 SFS and 10 FSS/FSMC, as appropriate.
            3.2.3.3. When a threat of violence is reported, the supervisor must consider the
            following factors (reference to the Metz Factors) in deciding whether the employee
            actually made a threat: (1) listener’s reactions, (2) listener’s apprehension of harm,
            (3) speaker’s intent, (4) any conditional nature of the statements, and (5) attendant
            circumstances.




                                             LOUIS L. VAN De MARK, GS-14
                                             Director, 10th Force Support Squadron
USAFAI36-701 30 NOVEMBER 2011                                              3


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations, 15 December 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
