BY ORDER OF THE                                          HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                           ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 90-821

                                                                           16 FEBRUARY 2010

                                                                           Aerospace Medicine

                                                              USAFA WRITTEN HAZARD
                                                            COMMUNICATION PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 AMDS/SGPB                                                 Certified by: 10 AMDS/SGP
Supersedes: AFI90-821_USAFASUP1,                                  (Col Timothy P. Greydanus)
            24 May 2007                                                              Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 90-8, Environment, Safety, and
Occupational Health, 1 September 2004. It provides information specific to the implementation
of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-821, Hazard Communication, at the United States Air Force
Academy (USAFA). This instruction applies to all USAFA personnel and all workplaces located
on USAFA that handle or use hazardous chemicals and do not fall under the OSHA Laboratory
Standard (29 CFR 1910.1450) or AFI 90-821 paragraph 2.2. Refer recommended changes and
conflicts between this and other publications, 10th Aerospace Medicine Squadron,
Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE), 2355 Faculty Dr, USAF Academy CO 80840, on Air Force
(AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document was substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.
1. HAZCOM Responsibility: In all workplaces that maintain Hazardous Chemical Materials
(HAZMAT), it is the workplace supervisor's responsibility to maintain a workplace written
HAZCOM program and training plan. It must include: this base instruction; AFI 90-821; a
workplace hazardous chemical inventory; identification of routine and non-routine tasks to
2                                                        USAFAI90-821 16 FEBRUARY 2010


include potential health hazards involving HAZMAT; all required Material Safety Data Sheets
(MSDSs); a workplace specific HAZCOM training plan; and documentation of worker training.
2. HAZCOM Binder:
    2.1. Workplaces should maintain a HAZCOM binder in this order:
       2.1.1. The workplace specific written HAZCOM program and training plan. A template
       HAZCOM program and training plan can be obtained by contacting BE at 333-4825.
       2.1.2. A copy of USAFAI 90-821, USAFA Hazard Communication Program.
       2.1.3. A copy of AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication.
       2.1.4. The workplace hazardous chemical inventory.
       2.1.5. All MSDSs or an MSDS cross reference sheet stating the location of MSDSs and
       instructions for accessing them.
       2.1.6. A list of both routine and non-routine tasks involving hazardous materials.
       2.1.7. A copy of Bioenvironmental Engineering health risk assessments for the
       workplace (the last 10 years if available).
3. Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS):
    3.1. An MSDS must be immediately accessible (in either paper or electronic format) for
    every item on the workplace-specific hazardous chemical inventory.
    3.2. The USAFA Hazardous Material Customer Service Center (HAZMART), 10
    CES/CEV, Building 8110, 333-2651 maintains the MSDS master file containing all
    hazardous materials used at USAFA.
    3.3. MSDSs in the workplace will be provided to all workers on all shifts. They must know
    how to obtain an MSDS and have unrestricted direct access to MSDSs during all shifts.
    3.4. MSDS access: If the primary means for MSDS access is electronic, a back-up system
    for MSDS access must be established. The back-up system may include, but is not limited
    to: paper copies, local computer files or CDs at another non-impacted location, telephone, or
    a fax. Hardcopy MSDS access must be in an unlocked location that is accessible to all
    workers.
    3.5. Workers with questions or those who desire clarification, concerning MSDS
    information will contact the HAZMART to establish a time, during the worker’s shift, for
    review of the MSDS. HAZMART personnel will review the MSDS with the employee and
    provide an explanation of MSDS information. Emergency requests after normal duty hours
    can be directed to the BE Technician on call at 440-6123.
    3.6. Process all new HAZMAT request through the HAZMART according to AFI 32-7086,
    Hazardous Materials Management.
4. Labels and Other Forms of Warning:
    4.1. Labeling of hazardous chemical containers will be done according to 29 CFR
    1910.1200(f), and DoDI 6050.05, Enclosure 3, DoD Hazardous Material Warning Labeling
    System.
USAFAI90-821 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                     3


   4.2. It is the responsibility of chemical manufacturers, importers and commercial distributors
   to label containers of hazardous chemicals according to the Federal HAZCOM Standard
   (HCS). Accordingly, chemical containers entering the installation through the supply system
   or through local purchase should already be labeled according to the HCS.
   4.3. Materials exempted from HAZCOM labeling requirements are in AFI 90-821 on page
   14. Read 29 CFR 1910.1200(b)(5) if additional details are desired.
   4.4. Supervisors will ensure labels on containers of hazardous chemicals used in their
   workplace meet HCS requirements, remain affixed to their containers, and are not obliterated
   or covered. If supervisors need additional labels, they must call the manufacturer of the
   product and have them sent via email, fax, or traditional mail. At a minimum, the following
   information will appear on container labels:
      4.4.1. The identity of the hazardous chemical(s) in the container.
      4.4.2. Appropriate hazard warnings that include information about the specific physical
      and health hazard(s), including target organ effects, of the chemical(s) in the container.
      This may be accomplished using any combination of words, symbols, or pictures.
   4.5. Transfer Containers:
      4.5.1. If an employee transfers a chemical from a labeled container (for example, a 55-
      gallon drum) into a portable container for his/her immediate use, then the portable
      container does not need to be labeled according to HAZCOM requirements. Immediate
      use means that the hazardous chemical will be under the control of and used only by the
      person who transfers it from a labeled container and only within the work shift in which it
      is transferred. If the employee cannot maintain full control over the chemical or departs
      the workplace, and if there is residual material left in the portable container, this material
      shall be disposed of under applicable local disposal regulations, returned to its original
      container, or labeled in accordance with applicable regulations.
      4.5.2. If a chemical is transferred from a labeled container into a portable container at a
      central distribution point, such as the installation or unit HAZMART, for use by other
      employees, then the portable container must be labeled by the HAZMART in accordance
      with HAZCOM requirements which include information about the specific physical and
      health hazard(s), including target organ effects, of the chemical(s) in the container.
5. Employee Information and Training:
   5.1. Supervisors will ensure BE and Public Health (PH) review and approve the shop
   specific hazard training plan for technical accuracy and completeness prior to
   implementation in the workplace. After approval by these agencies, the training plan will be
   signed by the Squadron Commander or equivalent.
   5.2. Hazard Communication Training. The workplace supervisor is responsible for ensuring
   all workers are properly trained on the chemical hazards in the workplace.
      5.2.1. Supervisor Training. Workplace supervisors will be provided HAZCOM
      information and training by PH, 10 AMDS/SGPM, 333-5168 or 333-6233. Supervisors
      will ensure subordinate workers are trained on the Air Force Hazard Communication
      Program. Supervisors will provide this training to their workers once the supervisor has
      received and completed HAZCOM information and training from PH.
4                                                         USAFAI90-821 16 FEBRUARY 2010


       5.2.2. Initial Training. Workers will receive comprehensive HAZCOM training from
       their supervisors at the time of their initial assignment in a workplace.
       5.2.3. Supplemental Training. Training for all potentially affected employees is required
       when a new hazard is brought into the workplace or a new chemical is introduced.
       Supervisors may use BE survey letters as sources of information to meet this training
       requirement. When workers change either assigned duties or locations, workplace-
       specific training will be re-accomplished to the extent needed to cover changes in
       working conditions and potential exposures.
       5.2.4. Contractor Training. Contract supervisors and contractors shall be trained
       according to their specific contract provisions.
6. Hazardous Chemical Inventory:
    6.1. Workplace supervisors will develop a hazardous chemical inventory as part of the
    HAZCOM binder. BE assessors will review this inventory during the industrial shop
    assessment.
    6.2. The HAZCOM folder/binder is maintained in the workplace and updated by supervisors
    as necessary. When new chemicals are introduced into and/or removed from the workplace,
    the supervisor will ensure chemicals are added or deleted from the chemical inventory within
    15 business days. Each supervisor is responsible for ensuring the HAZCOM folder/binder is
    updated and readily available to each worker.
    6.3. As a minimum, the inventory will include: the date of the inventory, the name of each
    hazardous chemical (as it appears on the MSDS), the national stock number, the specific
    manufacturer, and the quantity on hand. Two products from different manufacturers with the
    same NSN must be listed separately.
7. Non-Routine Tasks Involving Hazardous Materials:
    7.1. Non-routine tasks are those tasks included within a workplace’s normal activities but
    performed infrequently; for example, cleaning a solvent tank and changing the solvent.
    These tasks may also include temporary duties outside an individual's normal Air Force
    Specialty Code or job series.
    7.2. Supervisors will ensure workplace Operating Instructions (OI), specific task lists, or job
    safety analyses thoroughly describe non-routine tasks, associated hazards, and controls for
    the infrequent tasks. The OI must also include procedures for working with unlabeled pipes.
    OIs do not need to be prepared if technical orders or other official documents adequately
    describe these tasks and associated hazards and controls. Supervisors will ensure workers
    receive training on these procedures before performing the non-routine tasks.
8. Determining the Hazard of a Chemical: The Air Force will rely on the hazard
determination of the supplier or manufacturer of purchased chemicals. For Air Force-produced
chemicals, the Air Force activity controlling the formulation will make the hazard determination
and produce an MSDS IAW 29 CFR 1910.1200 for BE to review and approval. The Air Force
activity producing the chemical will include hazard determination procedures in their written
program and ensure their personnel are trained on the hazards. If the chemical is transferred to
any other organizations, the producing organization will provide a MSDS with the shipment and
transmit a copy IAW AFI 90-821.
USAFAI90-821 16 FEBRUARY 2010                                                              5


9. Contractors in AF Workplaces:
   9.1. When an Air Force workplace uses hazardous chemicals in a way that contractor
   employees (e.g., a painting contractor working in an industrial shop) may be exposed, then
   the workplace written hazard communication program and access to MSDSs must be
   provided to the contractors in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.1200(e)(2). The contractor is
   responsible for determining the adequacy of the HAZCOM information for assessments of
   contractor employees and is responsible for their own HAZCOM program.
   9.2. AFI 91-301 Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and
   Health Program, Section 9, states that “contractors are solely responsible for compliance
   with OSHA standards and the protection of their employees.” All contractors must ensure
   that HAZMATs are used appropriately, in accordance with the manufacturer’s MSDS and
   label, so as not to expose government employees or disrupt the work environment.
10. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   10.1. Prescribed Forms: No forms are prescribed by this publication.
   10.2. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                           KENNETH K. KNIGHT, Col, USAF, MC, CFS
                                           Commander, 10th Medical Group
6                                                     USAFAI90-821 16 FEBRUARY 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management
AFI 90-821, Hazard Communication
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Program
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
DoDI 6050.05, Enclosure 3, DoD Hazardous Material Warning Labeling System
29 CFR 1910.1200, OSHA Hazard Communication Standard
29 CFR 1910.1450, OSHA Occupational Exposure to Hazardous chemicals in Laboratories

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
HAZCOM—Hazard Communication
HAZMAT—Hazardous Material
HAZMART—Hazardous Material Customer Service Center
HCS—Hazard Communication Standard
MSDS—Material Safety Data Sheet
PH—Public Health
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy

Terms
Chemical—Any element, compound, or mixture of elements or compounds.
Hazardous Chemical (HAZMAT)—Any chemical that is a physical or health hazard and
requires an MSDS as defined in AFI 32-7086, Hazardous Materials Management, and all Class I
and Class II ozone-depleting substances. Also known as hazardous material.
Phone Numbers
Bioenvironmental Engineering: 333-4825
HAZMART: 333-2651
Public Health: 333-5168 or 333-6233
