                               Template modified:     27 May 1997 14:30
BY ORDER OF THE                                                                 USAFE Instruction 34-201
COMMANDER US AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                                     18 OCTOBER 1997
                                                                        Certified Current 24 January 2012
                                                                                                 Services

                                                         *PROTECTING NONAPPROPRIATED FUND
                                                                                   ASSETS


                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the USAFE Publications WWW site at: http://
www.usafe.af.mil/direct/foas/css/sb/scbp/pdl/publish.htm.


OPR: HQ USAFE/SVFO (MSgt Pasi)                             Certified by: HQ USAFE/SVF (Mr Kosmatka)
Supersedes USAFER 176-2, 14 April 1989                                                     Pages: 11
                                                                                      Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 34-2, Managing Nonappropriated Funds. It establishes US Air
Forces in Europe (USAFE) procedures for the control and reporting of gains applicable to currency con-
version service through the central cashier outlet and losses or gains in the general fund as a result of cur-
rency fluctuation. This instruction also provides procedures for activities with the authorization to accept
foreign currency for sales or services. It applies to all USAFE nonappropriated fund instrumentalities
(NAFI) that buy and sell foreign currency. This instruction applies to all US Air Force units and all US
Air Force Reserve and National Guard units serving in USAFE.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This instruction constitutes a complete rewrite of USAFER 176-2, Foreign Currency Control Proce-
dures. It provides USAFE nonappropriated fund (NAF) financial management and accounting procedural
guidance for foreign currency control procedures. This instruction must be used in concert with AFI
34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets.



1. Glossary of References, Abbreviations, Acronyms, and Terms. See Attachment 1.

2. Procedures. USAFE NAFIs will use the following procedures for foreign currency control:
   2.1. Currency Exchange Service:
       2.1.1. Sales of foreign currency for dollars will be at a rate equal to or no more favorable than the
       rate offered at the local military banking facility (MBF) or finance office. Nothing precludes the
       use of a less favorable rate to offset prorata share of personnel costs for administering this service.
       When sales are at a less favorable rate rather than an established service charge to cover adminis-
       trative costs, management must ensure gains do not exceed the cost of handling and selling foreign
       currency. Include this subject on the checklist used for the self-inspection program at the activi-
       ties. Adjust the selling rate when gains are in excess of a justified amount.
       2.1.2. The rate for foreign currency purchased in exchange for US dollars should be no more
       favorable than the buy-back rate used by the local MBF.
   2.2. Foreign Currency for Sales or Services:
       2.2.1. Where sales of dollars to foreign nationals are prohibited by host country directive, foreign
       currency may be accepted by activity cashiers (designated by management) for the direct purchase
       of food, beverages, and payment of fees and other services. This fixed rate may be more favorable
       to the club than the normal buy-back rate. Where this applies, the foreign currency is absorbed in
       current operations; for example, accommodation sales, foreign currency imprest funds, or con-
       verted to dollars before deposit if the MBF will not accept foreign currency deposits.
       2.2.2. Accept foreign currency for the purchase of merchandise which may be resold when:
          2.2.2.1. The transaction is not prohibited by host nation law.
          2.2.2.2. The transaction is authorized by the installation commander. The NAF accounting
          office notifies the Air Force Services Agency (HQ AFSVA/SVFB), HQ AFSVA RAN-
          DOLPH AFB TX//SVFB//, of all anticipated foreign currency deposits in excess of $50,000.
   2.3. Gains Recording. Use DD Form 2664, Currency Exchange Record, to account for gains on
   dollars purchased with foreign currency and foreign currency sales transactions.
   2.4. Responsibilities of Branch Manager or Designated Personnel:
       2.4.1. Place a sign at each cashier’s cage including:
          2.4.1.1. All customers must sign the DD Form 2664.
          2.4.1.2. Amount of service charge on foreign currency sales if applicable.
          2.4.1.3. Sell rate and buy-back rate.
       2.4.2. The head cashier or other designated employee maintains a stock of DD Forms 2664.
       Pre-number forms for use by cashiers handling accommodation sales. Use the accounting disburs-
       ing station number block for affixing the control number for each type of transaction for easier
       accountability. The general (head) cashier maintains these forms to pass to the cashiers handling
       foreign and US (dual) currency. Individuals pre-numbering and issuing the DD Forms 2664 ver-
       ify the sequential accountability.
          2.4.2.1. Attach all DD Forms 2664 as supporting documentation to the applicable AF Form
          1875, NAF Individual Cashier’s Report, and enter the beginning and ending numbers on the
          reverse (controlled documents log) of AF Form 1875.
          2.4.2.2. Attach USAFE Forms 48, Foreign Currency Reconciliation. Entries made in
          “Total Accountability” portion of AF Form 1876, NAF Consolidated Cost Center Report
          (CCCR), are extracted from these documents.
       2.4.3. Monitor the to ensure customers sign the DD Form 2664. Ensure transactions are recorded
       on the appropriate DD Form 2664 (US dollar or foreign currency).

3. Cashiers Instructions:

                                                  2
   3.1. Attachment 2 provides instructions for cashiers’ handling dual currency including
   end-of-the-shift protection.
   3.2. Attachment 3 outlines instructions for balancing USAFE Form 48, Foreign Currency Reconcil-
   iation, Sections II and III. Cashiers will prepare and sign this form in one copy and attach it to the AF
   Form 1875.

4. Cash Turn-Ins:
   4.1. Attachment 4 provides instructions for designated representatives that receive cash turn-ins and
   are responsible for balancing and cashiers’ reports. The reports may be completed and reconciled to
   cash turned in by the activity manager or designee according to AFI 34-202, paragraph 7.4.
   4.2. Attachment 5 provides instructions on how to account for the gain or loss (because of change in
   rate) on foreign currency held in the general change fund at the close of the business day. Use USAFE
   Form 49, General Cashier’s Foreign Currency Balance/Cash Count, Section I, to record dual cur-
   rency money count.
   4.3. Attachment 6 provides instructions for the general (head) cashier or designated representatives to
   follow when completing the reverse side of USAFE Form 49, Section II.
   4.4. Attachment 7 includes dual responsibilities for activities and the NAF AO.
   4.5. Attachment 8 contains instructions for foreign currency transactions at small sites.
   4.6. File the USAFE Forms 49 with respective cashier reports.

5. Forms and Reports Disposition. Dispose of forms and reports according to AFI 37-138, Records
Disposition--Procedures And Responsibilities.

6. Forms Prescribed:
   6.1. USAFE Form 48, Foreign Currency Reconciliation.
   6.2. USAFE Form 49, General Cashier’s Foreign Currency Balance/Cash Count.




                                         RONALD P. MARLOW
                                         Deputy Director of Services




                                                 3
                                           Attachment 1
             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, AND ACRONYMS

References
AFPD 34-2, Managing Nonappropriated Funds
AFI 34-202, Protecting Nonappropriated Fund Assets
AFI 37-138, Records Disposition--Procedures And Responsibilities.

Abbreviations
MBF—Military Banking Facility
NAF—Nonappropriated Funds
NAFI—Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentalities
USAFE—US Air Forces in Europe




                                             4
                                              Attachment 2
         INSTRUCTIONS FOR CASHIERS HANDLING FOREIGN CURRENCY (FC)

A2.1. At the beginning of shift, each cashier will receive and sign for change funds in Section I of the AF
Form 1875. Count all money issued, including wrapped bills, before signing for the change funds.

A2.2. Each cashier will be issued the following forms:
   • Two sets of pre-numbered DD Forms 2664, USAFE Form 48, with the “buy and sell” rates indi-
      cated, as well as the beginning balance.

A2.3. The following procedures apply to the use of DD Forms 2664:
   • Keep the forms inside the cage and not on the open counter so that they will not get misplaced.
   • Use one DD Form 2664 for purchase of foreign currency, and one to sell foreign currency. Do
      not mix purchases and sales on the same DD Form 2664.
   • For each individual transaction, indicate the amount of foreign currency purchased or sold. If
      required by local management, indicate the dollar amount in the second column.
   • The customer prints his or her name under the appropriate column heading.
   • Initial the block as indicated for each exchange.
   • Where applicable, indicate the service charge for each transaction.

A2.4. At the end of the shift, take the following actions:
   • Complete USAFE Form 48, Section II. Count the money at least twice.
   • Complete AF Form 1875, Part V, Cashier Accountability. Indicate on blank line the total amount
      of foreign currency remaining and the dollar equivalent.
   • Attach AF Forms 1148 and USAFE Form 48 to the AF Form 1875.
   • Account for pre-numbered DD Forms 2664 on reverse (controlled documents log) of AF Form
      1875.
   • Perform other duties required by local management.
   • Have the manager’s designated representative count money in the presence of the cashier. Sign
      the “Cashier Receipt” at the bottom of AF Form 1875, Section VI and obtain a copy of Section V
      as the receipt for cash turn in.




                                                 5
                                              Attachment 3
INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AND BALANCING USAFE FORM 48 AND AF FORM
                               1875

A3.1. Complete USAFE Form 48, Section II by following instructions for each entry as listed in Section
II, A-H.

A3.2. Complete USAFE Form 48, Section III as follows:
   • If a transaction charge (line B) in Section III is assessed, the amount of gain from sales of foreign
      currency is determined as follows: Count the number of transactions on the applicable DD Form
      2664 and multiply by the amount of the service charge or total column used for recording the ser-
      vice charge if the form has been modified to account for it separately.
   • The total gain on accommodation sales (line C) is the total of A and B. Ring up this is amount on
      the cash register using a separate key designated for this purpose. If separate key is not available,
      complete an AF Form 2557, NAF Cash Receipt Voucher, and attach to AF Form 1875 as sup-
      porting documentation.

A3.3. Compute dollar equivalent of foreign currency money count and enter this amount on foreign cur-
rency line of AF Form 1875. Count money at least twice to ensure accuracy.

A3.4. Complete remaining portion of AF Form 1875 by entering the register accountability. To deter-
mine this accountability, total accounts receivable collected, other sales or collections and total gain on
the accommodation sales during the shift. If allowed by management, ascertain if figure is correct by rec-
onciling to designated cash register key used for ringing up these collections.

A3.5. After all transactions have been reconciled, enter cash overages or shortages on the last line of Sec-
tion V of the AF Form 1875. Insignificant differences will always exist if a system of rounding off all
transactions to closest 5 cents is implemented.




                                                 6
                                             Attachment 4
                       INSTRUCTIONS FOR RECEIVING CASH TURN-INS

A4.1.   At the end of cashier’s shift, the head cashier or management:
   •    Clears the cash register and removes the tape.
   •    Records cash register identification.
   •    Dates the tape.
   •    Attaches the tape to the AF Form 1875.
   •    Counts the money turned in by the cashier.
   •    Verifies foreign currency total equivalency and dollar amount indicated on the USAFE Form 48
        and AF Form 1875, Section II.
   •    Verifies beginning and ending numbers of pre-numbered DD Forms 2664 are entered on the
        reverse side (Controlled Documents Log) of AF Form 1875.
   •    Signs the AF Form 1875, Section VI, and gives this receipt to the cashier.
   •    Performs other duties as directed by management.
   •    Secures the cashier’s report with all supporting documentation and related checks and currency as
        directed by management and according to applicable directives.




                                                7
                                            Attachment 5
 INSTRUCTIONS FOR ACCOUNTING FOR GAIN OR LOSS IN GENERAL CHANGE FUND

A5.1. Each day, complete the dual-currency USAFE Form 49, Section I. After prior day’s receipts are
separated from change fund and before cashiers are issued their change fund, accomplish money count of
US and foreign currency. Complete USAFE Form 49 as follows:
   • Enter result of money counts.
   • Enter foreign currency total on applicable line and convert at “prior” and “new” dollar equivalent
       (line B).
   • Add gain or loss as a result of the change in rate on line C.
   • Add total US (A) and foreign currency (B) (at prior rate), and compare with authorized change
       fund to determine cash over or short in general fund.
   • Enter cash over or short on line E.
   • Enter the gain or loss on change in currency rate (form line C) and cash over or short (from line
       E). Total and enter net difference as increase or decrease which is the adjustment to the daily
       deposit.
   • Prepare AF Form 1875 and AF Form 1876, NAF Consolidated Cost Center Report, to reflect
       increase or decrease to daily deposit; forward AF Form 1876 to NAF AO. with “General Cash-
       ier’s Count” form.




                                               8
                                              Attachment 6
  INSTRUCTIONS FOR MAINTENANCE OF FOREIGN CURRENCY CONVERSION BAL-
                            ANCE SHEET

A6.1. General head cashier or other designated representatives who issue or receive cash from activity
cashiers handling dual currency will use USAFE Form 49, Section II.

A6.2. Complete the form daily and use as backup documentation for the USAFE Form 48 completed the
prior workday by each cashier handling dual currency as well as the “General Cashier’s Cash Count.”

A6.3. To initially implement use of USAFE Form 49, enter total beginning balance of foreign currency
(this total includes all banks that are made up for each cashier prior to opening the cashier’s cage). Enter
all amounts purchased during the workday in the “Replenishment Check Request” block.

A6.4. Enter cashier identity; i.e., day cashier 1, day cashier 2, etc. Enter the total amount of foreign cur-
rency each cashier received during a shift; this equates to the amount issued at the beginning of the shift
plus any supplemental issues prior to the end of the workday. This amount equals the total of lines A and
B of the USAFE Form 48 prepared by each cashier handling “Accommodation Sales.” Enter total in the
“Issue” block.

A6.5. The next workday, complete remainder of USAFE Form 49 using information extracted from
appropriate item numbers on the USAFE Form 48 as indicated below:
   • Purchases - enter the amount from line C.
   • Sales - enter the amount from line D.
   • Turn-In - enter from line E. Run an adding machine tape on the “Turned In” column to determine
       beginning balance for this workday.

A6.6. Where foreign currency must be exchanged for dollars (balance in excess of authorized foreign
currency change or imprest funds) at the local MBF before making the deposit, enter the amount
exchanged in “Issued” column; annotate “Exchanged for $” and enter as a minus (in brackets) in the
“Turned-In” column.

A6.7. Attach all documents to appropriate AF Form 1875. The AF Form 1875 is designed with 18 lines,
which in most cases (dependent on number of cashiers involved), should be adequate to record Friday
through Monday (if holiday) business on a single form. Enter date of business in the same block with
cashier identity compatible with the date of cashier’s reports; i.e., 5 Jul, 6 Jul, 7 Jul and 8 Jul 97.




                                                 9
                                             Attachment 7
            INSTRUCTIONS FOR ACTIVITIES AND NAF ACCOUNTING OFFICE

A7.1. Activities designate personnel to closely monitor the DD Forms 2664 ensuring the net gain on
accommodation sales is in agreement with USAFE Forms 48 and is correctly included with other receipts
transcribed to Section V of AF Form 1875 on “Register/Receipt Accountability” line. Use GLACs 509X
to identify net gain on accommodation sales.

A7.2. Ensure that the pre-numbered DD Forms 2664 are accounted for in sequential order and beginning
and ending numbers annotated on the reverse (Control Documents Log) of AF Form 1875. Resolve or
clarify reason for missing numbers with concessionaire personnel on a timely basis.

A7.3. Establish necessary controls to be sure that the USAFE Form 49, lines B and C are accomplished
each time a daily fluctuation (change in rate) occurs. Take the ending balance from the prior day’s “For-
eign Currency Conversion Balance” and verify it to the foreign currency money count in part B of the
USAFE Form 49. Resolve any existing discrepancies on a timely basis.

A7.4. Account for these fluctuations daily in the NAF AO. At the end of each accounting month, prepare
an AF Form 2541, NAF Journal Voucher, to record the net difference of gains and losses in GLAC
509X.




                                               10
                                              Attachment 8
      ACCOUNTING FOR SALES AND SERVICES PAID IN FC - OTHER ACTIVITIES

A8.1. Use the following methods to control foreign currency transactions at activity cashier outlets for
sales or services.
    • Use a separate cash register key to account for all sales of food and beverages purchased with for-
        eign currency.
    • Ring up all sales in US dollars by making foreign currency conversions as established by this reg-
        ulation and specific authorization in paragraph A8.4.
    • Use AF Form 2555, NAF Cash Collection Record, to record sales in foreign currency.

A8.2. When making food and beverage sales using method in paragraph A8.1, first bullet, comply with
the following:
    • Issue cashiers a foreign currency and dollar change fund.
    • Post a conversion price list in a location visible to customers and activity cashiers. List both the
        dollar and foreign currency price; for example, if a mixed drink is $.75, round the foreign cur-
        rency price to the next highest denomination.
    • Using the designated key, ring all sales in foreign currency.

A8.3. At register close-out, dollar sales and foreign currency (converted to dollars at existing drink price
conversion rate) will represent total sales. Enter minor overages, due to rounding conversion rates, on the
AF Form 1875 as a gain on foreign currency. Before making deposit, exchange foreign currency for dol-
lars if the local field bank will not accept foreign currency deposits. First, attempt to exchange the cur-
rency for dollars internally to avoid a currency exchange loss at the field bank due to reconversion.

A8.4. Cashiers may also handle accommodation sales, for example, selling foreign currency and dollars
by applying procedures established in this regulation in general instructions and attachments 2 and 3. Do
not sell dollars if prohibited by host country agreements or any other reason.




                                                11
