BY ORDER OF THE                                              HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                               ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 24-101

                                                                           17 NOVEMBER 2009
                                                              Certified Current 29 February 2012
                                                                                   Transportation

                                                   AIRLIFT SUPPORT FOR USAF ACADEMY
                                                                          ACTIVITIES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/ADSL                                                 Certified by: HQ USAFA/ADS
Supersedes: USAFAI24-101, 31 March 2005                              (Mr. Wayne H. Kellenbence)
                                                                                        Pages: 8


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-1, Personnel Movement, and
references Department of Defense Directive (DoDD) 4500.43, Operational Support Airlift
(OSA), by establishing procedures for requesting OSA, United States Transportation Command
(USTRANSCOM) scheduled team travel airlift, and opportune airlift in support of United States
Air Force Academy (USAFA) activities. It applies to all USAFA military and civilian personnel,
including US Air Force Reserve (AFRC). It does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) or
the Civil Air Patrol. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary
of references and supporting information.

This instruction requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974. The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed in this instruction is
10 U.S.C. 8013. The requester will show and upon request give the affected individual a Privacy
Act Statement for each form, format, or form letter used to collect personal data, before asking
for the information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates the Certifying Official’s information (Header), updates the RDS hyperlink
information (Opening), updates opportune airlift information (Paragraph 1.4.), updates
2                                                          USAFAI24-101 17 NOVEMBER 2009


information on the Commander of Troops (Paragraph 1.6.), adds timeframe for submitting airlift
requests (Paragraph 3.1.), deletes requirement for travel orders to be approved by USAFA/FM
(Paragraph 3.3.), and incorporates Interim Change 1.
1. Using Military Airlift.
    1.1. All USTRANSCOM passenger requirements for eight or fewer passengers are handled
    as OSA and accommodated on C-12, C-21, UC-35, or C-38 aircraft under the
    USTRANSCOM approved priority system.
    1.2. Team travel for nine or more passengers is accommodated on C-9, C-20, C-22, C-23,
    and C-26 aircraft under the scheduling control of the Joint Operational Support Airlift Center
    (JOSAC), USTRANSCOM.
    1.3. All non-DoD civilians must request a waiver to DoD Regulation 4515.13, Air
    Transportation Eligibility, before traveling on military aircraft.
    1.4. USAFA personnel must provide a passenger manifest to the Airlift Validator using an
    Excel document as seen below, listing name, rank, social security number, and weight (in
    pounds) without any punctuation. Leave or permissive travel orders are NOT acceptable for
    requesting Opportune Airlift. The individual in charge of travel must turn the manifest and
    orders into the Directorate of Athletics’ Intercollegiate Logistics Office (USAFA/ADSL) no
    later than 48-hours prior to departure. Any passengers not on official orders will be denied
    travel. Copies of orders will also be turned in to departure station Passenger Service Section
    no later than two (2) hours before scheduled departure time.
 Doe John D                               CDT               123456789               180
    1.5. The Academy organization responsible for a trip may establish the travel uniform as
    long as it is in good repair and taste, and appropriate for the occasion. (See AFI 36-2903,
    Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, ADOI 20-1, Intercollegiate Team
    Travel, and applicable Air Force Cadet Wing Instruction.)
    1.6. If there is a Commander of Troops (COT) appointed to be in charge of a contingent
    (e.g., football contingent), he or she must travel on the airlift with the cadets. If there is more
    than one aircraft with a cadet contingent, there will be a COT appointed for each aircraft. A
    COT should be an active duty officer, Noncommissioned Officer (NCO) or DoD civilian.
    The COT will also act as the Troop Commander (TC), and is responsible for ensuring trash is
    removed from the respective passenger terminal areas and also from the aircraft upon
    landing. The COT/TC is also responsible for cadet conduct at the passenger terminals and on
    board the aircraft. Cadets will not lie on the floor or enter restricted areas on the aircraft
    unless invited to do so by a crewmember. COT/TCs will also fulfill all responsibilities
    assigned to them by the Passenger Terminal and aircrew.
    1.7. All passengers boarding DoD passenger aircraft must surrender baggage for screening.
    Individuals pass through metal detecting devices at the passenger terminal before boarding.
    The COT/TC must certify anti-hijacking inspections on the manifest. All passengers are
    required to arrive at the Peterson AFB CO passenger terminal two (2) hours prior to
    departure to ensure a timely take-off. This policy is in place to ensure proper security
    measures are enforced.
USAFAI24-101 17 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                        3


   1.8. As the Airlift Validator for the Academy, USAFA/ADSL will follow the proper
   procedures for military airlift passenger travel. If a travel group arrives at Peterson AFB CO
   without following these procedures, the group may be denied travel. If a group coordinates
   airlift on their own, has not completed the proper paperwork, and has not advised
   USAFA/ADSL of their travel, the group may not be allowed to board the aircraft. The 21st
   Space Wing Base Operations at Peterson AFB CO cannot deny the aircraft a parking space at
   Peterson, but the passenger terminal may refuse to manifest passengers on any aircraft not
   coordinated through USAFA/ADSL.
   1.9. Request airlift on DD Form 2768, Military Air Passenger/Cargo Request (see
   instructions at Attachment 2). Include a brief justification and a point of contact on each
   request. The point of contact must be able to coordinate last-minute changes in flight
   schedules with passengers and must NOT be a traveler. Also, the request will not be
   processed without the proper signatures (blocks 12-14) on the reverse of the form.
2. Responsibilities.
   2.1. The Command Airlift Validator (USAFA/ADSL) is responsible for all mission
   validation at the Academy. Additionally, the Validator will:
       2.1.1. Coordinate all Academy military airlift support requests with JOSAC, ANG, or
       AFRC, as required. Receive travel requests from the travel coordinators and assign
       priorities under the USAF-approved priority system; contact Airlift Validator for further
       information about the priority system.
       2.1.2. Submit requests to the JOSAC through the Joint Air Logistics Information System
       (JALIS).
       2.1.3. If airlift is not available, advise the travelers as soon as possible to obtain alternate
       modes of transportation.
       2.1.4. Use vacant seats for official Academy travelers; any remaining seats are made
       available to the departure station Passenger Service Section for use by space-required or
       space-available passengers. All passengers in a leave or permissive Temporary Duty
       (TDY) status must call the Peterson AFB CO passenger terminal at DSN 834-4521 or
       commercial (719) 556-4521 to sign up for Space-A travel. USAFA/ADSL is only
       authorized to include passengers on official duty (with appropriate travel orders) on the
       manifest.
       2.1.5. Submit message traffic to USTRANSCOM requesting opportune airlift support
       control numbers to be used by AFRC and ANG units providing opportune airlift to
       USAFA activities.
3. Requesting Opportune Airlift.
   3.1. Organizations seeking opportune airlift from AFRC/ANG airlift units must coordinate
   with the supporting unit through USAFA/ADSL. Submit all pertinent mission information
   on DD Form 2768, including the organization, location, and contact DSN phone number.
   Requests for opportune airlift should be submitted 180 days in advance, but no later than 90
   days prior to departure. The chance to obtain airlift support increases the greater the advance
   request time; however, this does not guarantee airlift support will be available.
4                                                        USAFAI24-101 17 NOVEMBER 2009


    3.2. If the supporting airlift unit requests military personnel appropriation (MPA) man-day
    authorizations and (or) per diem to provide airlift for the Academy, the Validator forwards
    the appropriate authorization to the individual unit.
    3.3. The final authority for approving Military Airlift for a group is a copy of the TDY
    orders signed by the orders approving official. Without valid routine travel orders, the airlift
    will be cancelled. Leave and permissive TDY orders are not valid orders for requesting
    military airlift.
4. Requesting OSA/Team Travel Airlift (nine or more passengers):
    4.1. Requests for OSA aircraft must allow sufficient time for travelers to arrange for or
    cancel other means of transportation. Commercial airline reservations or ticketing may not
    occur as long as the military airlift request is in the active system. If the requester finds it
    necessary to make commercial airline reservations, contact USAFA/ADSL immediately to
    terminate the military airlift request. Holding a commercial ticket and having a military
    flight reserved or having “back-up” reservations is prohibited by AFI 24-101, Passenger
    Movement, paragraph. 3.1.
       4.1.1. Submit Priority 1 requests at any time.
       4.1.2. Other requests must be submitted to JOSAC/USTRANSCOM no later than 10
       duty days before the day of travel. Send requirements for team travel to the Airlift
       Validator as soon as possible to optimize possible support. DD Forms 2768 should
       reflect as much flexibility in travel dates as possible to afford Headquarters Air Mobility
       Command (HQ AMC) the maximum opportunity to schedule support under the USAF-
       approved priority system.
       4.1.3. Travel requests (DD Form 2768) must list at least the senior traveling official and
       total number of passengers. Additional passengers must be listed in an attachment no
       later than three days prior to travel if airlift has been scheduled.
       4.1.4. If there is any cargo other than personal baggage, show the total pieces, weight,
       dimensions, cube, and description of the cargo in block 8 of DD Form 2768. If any one
       piece of cargo exceeds total girth of 100 inches, or 72 inches in any one dimension
       (length, width, height), include this information in block 8e or on a separate cargo
       breakdown sheet attached to the DD Form 2768. An authorized certifying official must
       certify all hazardous cargo for air shipment (see AFMAN 24-204, Preparing Hazardous
       Materials for Military Air Shipments) and a copy of the International Air Transport
       Association’s Shipper’s Declaration for Dangerous Goods form must be attached to the
       DD Form 2768.
       4.1.5. The travel window indicated in block 6 of DD Form 2768 must show a minimum
       of the aircraft flying time plus three (3) hours. Use larger windows whenever possible to
       improve chances for support (see Attachment 2).
       4.1.6. For all requests, the Airlift Validator assigns a unique airlift request number that
       will be used for tracking support, changes, etc.
USAFAI24-101 17 NOVEMBER 2009                                                       5


5. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; DD Form 2768, Military Air
Passenger/Cargo Request.



                                        DR. HANS J. MUEH
                                        Director of Athletics
6                                                   USAFAI24-101 17 NOVEMBER 2009


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
ADOI 20-1, Intercollegiate Team Travel
AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel
AFMAN 24-204, Preparing Hazardous Materials for Military Air Shipments
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 24-1, Personnel Movement
DoDD 4500.43, Operational Support Airlift
DoDR 4515.13, Air Transportation Eligibility

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—US Air Force Reserve
ANG—Air National Guard
AMC—Air Mobility Command
COT—Commander of Troops
IG—Inspector General
IMT—Information Management Tool
JALIS—Joint Air Logistics Information System
JOSAC—Joint Operational Support Airlift Center
MPA—Military Personnel Appropriation
NCO—Noncommissioned Officer
OSA—Operational Support Airlift
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SA—Space Available
SAM—Special Airlift Mission
SAAM—Special Assignment Airlift Mission
SR—Space Required
TC—Troop Commander
TDY—Temporary Duty
USAFA—US Air Force Academy
USTRANSCOM—US Transportation Command

Terms
Group Movements—Group travel is considered two or more passengers on the same mission,
departing on the same flight and arriving on the same flight (AFI 24-101, pp 3.2.).
USAFAI24-101 17 NOVEMBER 2009                                                                  7


Operational Support Airlift (OSA)—OSA missions are movements of high-priority passengers
and cargo with time, place, or mission-sensitive requirements (DoDD 4500.43, pp 3.1.). Airlift
produced as a by-product of pilot training missions and used to transport passengers essential to
accomplishing assigned missions. OSA assets include C-21, C-12, UC-35, C-38, C-9, etc.
aircraft.
Opportune Airlift—This is a generic term for all MilAir not otherwise classified as OSA,
Special Assignment Airlift Mission (SAAM), AMC channel, Special Airlift Mission (SAM), etc.
It is space-available, non-revenue generating SAAM traffic (AFI 24-101, pp 3.36.). Passenger
travel is considered opportune eligible when the required pickup or delivery dates are flexible,
and travel can coincide with the movement of the aircraft's established mission. Air National
Guard and Air Force Reserve tactical airlift units provide opportune airlift to USAFA
organizations. The activity requesting the airlift contacts the HQ USAFA Validating Official
who coordinates with a unit able to provide the desired support.
Priority—Type of mission that justifies nature of travel. (See the priority system in DODD
4500.43, Enclosure 2.)
Space-Available (SA) Travel—The specific program of travel authorized by Chapter 6 of DoD
4515-13R, allowing authorized passengers to occupy DoD aircraft seats at no cost to the traveler
that are surplus after all space-required passengers have been accommodated. (DoD 4515.13-R,
DL1.1.34.)
Space-Available (SA) Passengers—Personnel who fill surplus seats after all space-required
passengers are accommodated (DoD 4515.13-R, DL1.1.34). Only non-official travelers, that is,
military personnel in a leave status, may use space-available air transportation.
Space-Required (SR) Traffic—"Mission essential traffic," as identified throughout DoD
4515.13-R, DL1.1.35.
Space-Required (SR) Passengers—All individuals, military or civilian, on official business for
DoD and traveling under orders for the United States Government.
Team Travel—Groups of nine or more passengers with a specific mission, such as Inspector
General (IG) teams, etc.
Validating Official—The individual who processes requests for space-required travel.
USAFA/ADSL (Intercollegiate Logistics - Airlift) is the command Airlift Validator who has
authority to validate all USAFA airlift missions.
8                                                       USAFAI24-101 17 NOVEMBER 2009


                                         Attachment 2
                  INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING DD FORM 2768

A2.1. Block 1: Priority 3 satisfies most airlift requirements. Any other blocks require
justification in block 2c, clearly showing why MILAIR is the only adequate mode of travel. See
Military Airlift Validator for information about Priority 1 and 2 missions.
A2.2. Block 2a: The Priority, Urgency, Justification Code (PUJC) for most USAFA trips is
36ZM for team/club travel and 36AA for conferences/individual travel. The Airlift Validator
will adjust the PUJC accordingly.
A2.3. Block 2b: Describe the mission as accurately as possible.
A2.4. Block 2c: Complete only if travel is considered Priority 2, Required Use. Most USAFA
travel is Priority 3.
A2.5. Block 3: Total number of passengers.
A2.6. Block 4: Senior Traveling Passenger information.
A2.7. Block 5: List name, rank, duty title, and branch of service for any additional passengers
in the rank of Colonel (O-6) or above. If there are none, leave blank.
A2.8. Block 6: The departure station and ICAO for Colorado Springs and Peterson AFB is
KCOS. During Mountain Standard Time, the Zulu time is local time plus seven (7) hours and
during Daylight Savings Time it is local time plus six (6) hours. For all other location ICAOs
and time zones, check with your validating official (USAFA/ADSL).
A2.9. Block 7: Cost of commercial tickets.
A2.10. Block 8: Describe, in detail, any cargo in addition to personal luggage.
A2.11. Block 9: Point of contact MUST be someone who is NOT a traveler.
A2.12. Block 10: List any additional travelers below the rank of Colonel (O-6). If there is not
enough room, you may type “see attached list” and attach a list with the names, ranks, and
socials of all additional passengers in the format listed in paragraph 1.4.
A2.13. Block 11: Annotate any additional or pertinent information regarding the trip.
A2.14. Block 12: Name of Requestor (can be a cadet).
A2.15. Block 13: Name of Travel Authorizing Official. This person CANNOT be a traveler
and is usually the same person who signs the travel orders.
A2.16. Block 14: Name of Senior Traveling Passenger. .
