BY ORDER OF THE                                           HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                           ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3513

                                                                          2 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                   USAF ACADEMY SPEAKERS PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/A8A                                              Certified by: HQ USAFA/A5/8/9
                                                                          (Col Kim Hawthorne)
Supersedes:   USAFAI36-3513,                                                         Pages: 8
              11 February 2009


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, and provides guidance for coordinating and scheduling speakers for United States Air
Force Academy (USAFA) audiences. This instruction applies to all USAFA personnel. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located on the Air Force Portal. See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

This publication requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of
1974, 10 United States Code 8013, and Chapter 903.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. It deletes all
references to Tier One and Tier Two speakers, and delegates approval for most speakers to the
respective Dean of Faculty (DF) department heads or other mission partner O-6 functional
directors. Incorporates 10 ABW-sponsored speakers and retains 10 ABW/CC approval
authorities. Allows appropriate mission partner leads to approve speakers for named lectures.
Clarifies methods and approval levels required to fund speaker visits.
 2                                                        USAFAI36-3513 2 NOVEMBER 2012


1. General. This instruction establishes guidelines for coordinating and scheduling speakers
sponsored by the Air Force Academy to address any USAFA audiences (cadets, cadet
candidates, and permanent party faculty and staff) during on- and off-base events. This includes
all speakers sponsored by 10 ABW (i.e. Equal Opportunity observances, National Day of Prayer,
etc.). The intent of the Academy Speakers Program (ASP) is to expose USAFA personnel to
meaningful engagement with acknowledged experts whose ideas represent a multitude of
perspectives, even those of controversy. As with any college or university, open academic
discourse is critical to engaged learning, and advancing knowledge beyond old paradigms often
involves the expression of views that are controversial. In addition, ASP informs USAFA senior
leadership of speaker presence, manages the impact on cadet time, supports academic freedom,
and strengthens USAFA's communication and reputation.
2. ASP Policy.
     2.1. Defines the approval and scheduling process for speakers brought to the Academy to
     address all USAFA audiences (regardless of size) and provides visibility of all speakers to
     the appropriate USAFA leadership level.
     2.2. ASP calendar site provides USAFA-wide access and prevents overscheduling of
     speaking events. The site is hosted on the Academy SharePoint Enterprise Information
     System (EIS).
     2.3. ASP provides USAFA with an excellent opportunity to promote positive community
     outreach by inviting students and faculties from local colleges and universities, members of
     interested civic organizations, and the general public to attend addresses by prominent
     speakers. Care must be taken, however, to determine in advance if the speaker prefers to
     limit the audience and to ensure adequate seating is available. All invitations to the general
     public and civic leaders and organizations must be coordinated in advance with USAFA
     Public Affairs (USAFA/PA).
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Director of Plans and Programs (USAFA/A5/8/9) serves as the ASP Executive Agent.
     3.2. Executive Agent selects the ASP Manager, who monitors the speaker approval and
     scheduling process, manages ASP calendar access, and ensures compliance with this
     instruction.
     3.3. All USAFA mission partners (MPs) and staff agencies that sponsor guest speakers will
     identify ASP Administrators to the ASP Manager. Administrators oversee the respective
     MP/staff agency speaker approval and scheduling process and ensure compliance with this
     instruction.
     3.4. All speakers require prior approval by a DF department head, MP/staff agency O6
     functional director or commander. For distinguished visitors (DVs) (e.g., general officer or
     equivalent, senior-elected officials, foreign dignitaries or above), or when, in the opinion of
     the approval authority, the presence of a speaker could result in publicity for USAFA, the
     approval authority will notify their MP/staff agency lead and the USAFA Director of
     Communications (USAFA/CM), who advises USAFA senior leaders as appropriate. In the
     case of speakers for named lectures (e.g., Harmon Lecture, Reich Lecture), the appropriate
     MP/staff agency lead provides the final approval. Following this approval, the respective
USAFAI36-3513 2 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                  3


   department head/functional director will notify USAFA/CM. (See Attachment 2 for a flow
   chart of the process to follow, depending on the speaker.)
   3.5. USAFA Directorate of Protocol (USAFA/DSP) provides DV support as appropriate.
   3.6. Scheduling Committee approves the scheduling of evening lectures and ensures there
   are no more than 2 in any week, 4 in any month, and 30 for the entire academic year. The
   committee also ensures there are no evening lectures scheduled at the same time as named
   lectures.
4. Administrative Process.
   4.1. No formal invitation to the speaker will be offered until final approval.
   4.2. After approval, the speaker point of contact (POC) enters the required information into
   the ASP calendar and ensures there are no conflicts with events, such as named lectures or
   other high-priority USAFA events. Any cross-MP conflicting events should be resolved at
   the lowest possible level. Evening lectures are typically scheduled between 1950-2043 hours
   (Tuesday-Thursday) after Scheduling Committee approval.
      4.2.1. Administrators ensure speaking events of wide interest (e.g., named lectures) are
      included in the USAFA master calendar as soon as possible. Until final approval, these
      events are denoted as “TBD.”
   4.3. POCs must notify the DF Director of International Programs (USAFA/DFIP, 333-3425)
   no later than 45 days prior to the arrival of any foreign national speaker, to comply with
   proper clearance and foreign disclosure procedures.
   4.4. If media attention or publicity is expected for any USAFA speaker, POCs coordinate
   with USAFA/PA and USAFA/CM regarding details, such as speaker talking points, outside
   audience expected, and media coverage. The USAFA/PA and USAFA/CM will make every
   effort to accommodate media representatives within the parameters of each speaker’s desires.
   4.5. See Action Officer & Staffing Guide (maintained on the HQ USAFA Command Section
   site) if Superintendent-signed invitations or welcome letters are required for speakers.
   4.6. POCs must contact USAFA/DSP (333-3540) to complete the USAFA Project Officer’s
   Checklist as soon as possible after approval of DV speakers.
   4.7. POCs must contact the Pass & Registration Center (PRC) located northeast of the South
   gate, Bldg 8486 (333-3327), to coordinate base entry for unescorted non-DoD speakers or
   attendees (to include entry after normal duty hours).
   4.8. In accordance with USAFAI 36-3525, USAFA Event Management and Approval, if
   large numbers of nonAcademy attendees are anticipated, POCs must also coordinate through
   the USAFA Event Request process via the public USAFA website homepage at least 90 days
   in advance (email usafa.events@usafa.edu).
   4.9. POCs must coordinate with applicable Academy staff agencies based on the speaker’s
   title, position, or topic. Examples include but are not limited to: HC for religious topics or
   speakers, CDO if topic includes inclusion or diversity, CWP for topics dealing with sexual
   assault prevention.
5. Program Management.
4                                                      USAFAI36-3513 2 NOVEMBER 2012


    5.1. POCs will comply with AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Responsibilities and Management;
    AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review Process; DODI 5200.01, DoD Information Security
    Program and Protection of Sensitive Compartmented Information; and AFPD 31-4,
    Information Security, to mitigate the inadvertent release of the following during speaker
    engagements: Operations Security, Scientific and Technical Information, Military Critical
    Technology, Foreign Disclosure, Freedom of Information Act, and sensitive Public Affairs
    information.
    5.2. Speaker travel, expenses, and honoraria are typically funded through gift or
    appropriated funds. Procedures vary according to the funding source; however, do not
    commit funds, either implicitly or explicitly, until final approval of speakers, and ensure
    compliance with AFI 65-601 V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures (paragraph 4.9.), and
    USAFAI 51-601, USAF Academy Management and Use of Gift Funds (paragraph 6.3.1.7.).
       5.2.1. Gift funds. Any proposed use of these funds must first be coordinated via
       electronic staff summary sheet (eSSS) with the USAFA Development and Alumni
       Programs Office (USAFA/CMA), the USAFA Staff Judge Advocate (USAFA/JA), and
       then approved by the appropriate authority specified in paragraph 6.3.1.7, USAFAI 51-
       601, before funds may be committed. The Dean of the Faculty, Commandant of Cadets,
       Director of Athletics, and Preparatory School Commander may approve honoraria paid
       with gift funds up to $2,000 per individual. All other honoraria paid with gift funds must
       be approved by the Vice Superintendent or Superintendent. In either case, multiple
       requests may be submitted on a single SSS.
           5.2.1.1. Speakers paid by outside organizations. The Air Force General Counsel
           (SAF/GC) must approve all “gifts of services.” For example, if a non-Federal
           government organization (e.g., USAFA Endowment, Association of Graduates) wants
           to pay a speaker directly (rather than offering the funds to USAFA, which would then
           pay the speaker) and offers the speaker’s services to USAFA, that is considered a gift
           of services. The offer must be staffed via eSSS through appropriate USAFA
           channels, including USAFA/CMA, USAFA/JA, USAFA/CV, and USAFA/CC, to
           SAF/GC for approval. Requests must be submitted as soon as possible, but with a
           minimum of 60 days lead time. If approved, the speaker must execute a Gratuitous-
           Volunteer Service Agreement (see Attachment 3).
       5.2.2. Appropriated funds. For Air Base Wing events, the 10 ABW Commander may
       approve honoraria of $500 or less. For all other events, honoraria of $2,000 or less using
       these funds must be approved by the Superintendent through an eSSS (at least six weeks
       lead time.) Honoraria over $2,000 require Assistant Vice Chief of Staff of the Air Force
       (HQ USAF/CVA) approval with a minimum of 60 days lead time. The eSSS for all
       appropriated fund honoraria should include coordination with USAFA/FM and
       USAFA/JA.




                                            KIM D. HAWTHORNE, Col, USAF
                                            Director, Plans and Programs
USAFAI36-3513 2 NOVEMBER 2012                                                          5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 31-4, Information Security, 1 September 1998
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program, 16 May 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 33-364, Records Disposition – Procedures and Responsibilities, 22 December 2006
AFI 35-101, Public Affairs Responsibilities and Management, 18 August 2010
AFI 35-102, Security and Policy Review Process, 20 October 2009
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy, 25 May 2011
USAFAI 51-601, USAF Academy Management and Use of Gift Funds, 5 January 2011
AFI 65-601 V1, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 3 March 2005
DODI 5200.01, DoD Information Security Program and Protection of Sensitive Compartmented
Information, 9 October 2008 (Change 1, 13 June 2011)
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
ASP—Academy Speakers Program
CDO—Chief Diversity Officer
CWP—Vice Commandant, Culture and Climate
DoD—Department of Defense
eSSS—Electronic Staff Summary Sheet
HC—Senior Staff Chaplain
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
PRC—Pass & Registration Center
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SSS—Staff Summary Sheet
 6                                                    USAFAI36-3513 2 NOVEMBER 2012


TBD—To Be Determined
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy

Terms
Mission Partner Lead—Commandant of Cadets; Dean of the Faculty; Director of Athletics;
Commander, 10th Air Base Wing; and Commander, USAFA Preparatory School. For the
purposes of this instruction, the Chief Diversity Officer and Commander, 306th Flying Training
Group, serve as MP leads.
USAFAI36-3513 2 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                              7


                                             Attachment 2
              SPEAKER APPROVAL AND ADMISISTRATION PROCESS

(“Dept Head” used in place of O-6 speaker approver)

                              Initiate Speaker Invitation




                          Named
                                                     All others
                          Lecture




                 Dept Head                                    Dept Head
                 Coordinate                                    Approve




            Mission Partner
                                                            Invite Speaker
             lead approve




             Invite Speaker                                 ASP Calendar




  ASP Calendar                CM                                          DV/Publicity?



                                                                              CM
 Master Calendar


                                                                                          Wide Interest?




                                                                                      Master Calendar
 8                                                      USAFAI36-3513 2 NOVEMBER 2012


                                         Attachment 3
                 GRATUITOUS-VOLUNTEER SERVICE AGREEMENT

I, (name), by signing this Agreement, agree to provide gratuitous-volunteer services as a
lecturer/speaker to the United States Air Force Academy in compliance with 10 U.S.C., section
1588. Such services are provided without expectation of compensation and I hereby agree that
no claim for services rendered or incidental expenses will be made against the United States
government. I further understand that such gratuitous service does not constitute government
service for purposes of Federal retirement benefits or preference in hiring for paid Federal
employment positions.

In compliance with 10 U.S.C., section 1588(a)(3)(C), the nature of my services will be in the
area of education. I understand that as a volunteer, I will not be considered a Federal employee
for any purpose other than the Federal Tort Claims Act, 28 U.S.C., sections 1346(b), 2671, 2672,
and 2674-2680 (1982), or the Military Claims Act 10 U.S.C., sections 2731-2738. I may also be
entitled to compensation under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, 5 U.S.C., sections
8101-8193, should I suffer personal injury in the performance of such duties. Except as provided
by the above statutes, I understand and agree that I am assuming all risk of any personal injury,
loss or expense that may result from my participation as a volunteer and hereby waive any claims
that I or that my heirs, administrators, executors, and/or assignees may have against the United
States government, the United States Air Force, the United States Air Force Academy and any of
their officers, employees, representatives or agents, as a result of my participation in these
volunteer activities.

I understand and agree that, as a volunteer, any Privacy Act information concerning government
employees and their family members provided to me while performing volunteer services is, and
will be, protected by the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974.

This document encompasses all understanding between (name) and the United States Air Force
Academy as pertains to services as a volunteer guest lecturer/speaker.




Signature: _________________                  Date: ______________

           Print Name
