BY ORDER OF THE                                       HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
SUPERINTENDENT                                                         INSTRUCTION 36-2811
                                                                                       2 AUGUST 2006

                                                                                              Personnel

                                                                          OUTSTANDING ACADEMY
                                                                              EDUCATOR AWARDS

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFA/DFCS                                                      Certified by: HQ USAFA/DFV
                                                                                  (Col Douglas Barlow)
Supersedes USAFAI36-2811, 04 April 2003                                                       Pages: 3

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations Pro-
grams, 1 August 1997, with the annual awards for excellence in education within the Directorate of Ath-
letics (HQ USAFA/AH), the USAFA Preparatory School (HQ USAFA/PL), and the Dean of the Faculty
(HQ USAFA/DF). It applies to all military and civilian instructors assigned to HQ USAFA/AH,
HQ USAFA/PL, and HQ USAFA/DF who are normally serving in their first 4 years of teaching duties
and to individuals selecting the award winners. Refer recommended changes and conflicts between this
and other publications to HQ USAFA/DFCS Dr. Barry Fagin, Dept of Computer Science, 2354 Fairchild
Drive, USAFA CO 80840, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Clarifies definitions and procedures for the Outstanding Academy Educator (OAE): (paragraphs 1., 2.,
3.1., 4.1., 4.3., 5., 5.1., 5.2., 5.3., 6.). Adds required paragraph on Information Collections and Forms
(paragraph 7.). A bar (|) indicates revisions from previous edition.


1. Purpose of the Awards. The Outstanding Academy Educator Awards are presented annually to rec-
ognize instructors who, by personal example and performance, best characterize the principles of excel-
lence in education.

2. Eligibility: Normally, all military and civilian instructors assigned to HQ USAFA/AH, HQ USAFA/
PL, and HQ USAFA/DF, who are serving in their first 4 years of teaching duties, are eligible. Each aca-
demic department within DF, HQ USAFA/AH, and HQ USAFA/PL may select an Outstanding Academy
Educator. Personnel assigned to a Dean of the Faculty staff agency are eligible to compete in the depart-
2                                                                    USAFAI36-2811 2 AUGUST 2006


ment within which they perform teaching duties. In addition, one Outstanding Academy Educator may be
selected from among all personnel assigned to HQ USAFA/DF agencies.

3. Selection Criteria:
    3.1. Academic: Superior performance in the following areas is recommended as the baseline for
    selection criteria for this award. As appropriate, each department/agency may include additional
    requirements based upon their specific discipline or respective missions.
       3.1.1. Classroom teaching excellence.
       3.1.2. Development of course syllabi and instructional materials such as textbooks.
       3.1.3. Counseling, to include scholarship and fellowship criteria, extra instruction, special study
       programs, majors’ programs, and other direct student involvement.
       3.1.4. Duties such as Associate Air Officer Commanding for Academics (AAOCA), Group Asso-
       ciate AOC, Advisor-in-Charge, and Advisor.
       3.1.5. Research and publication activities.
    3.2. Support. Although academic excellence is the primary consideration, support of other mission
    elements through such activities as flying, squadron Associate Air Officers Commanding (AAOCs),
    and squadron training officers should be considered.

4. Who Selects.
    4.1. HQ USAFA/DF, HQ USAFA/AH and HQ USAFA/PL department heads, using the selection cri-
    teria above, and any additional criteria based upon discipline or respective missions, will select their
    Outstanding Academy Educator. The selection process used within each department/agency may be
    determined by each department/agency head.
    4.2. The Vice Dean of the Faculty may select an Outstanding Academy Educator from among the
    Dean of the Faculty staff agencies.
    4.3. HQ USAFA/DF, HQ USAFA/AH and HQ USAFA/PL department heads will submit the name of
    their winner to the Faculty Forum Organizing Committee-designated Chair, according to the schedule
    published by the Committee. Typically this is not later than 45 days prior to the Outstanding Acad-
    emy Educators Awards Recognition Ceremony. This advance notification is required by the Organiz-
    ing Committee to allow adequate time to prepare all materials for the ceremony, such as programs,
    awards, photos and news releases. Security of award-winners’ names will be respected by Organizing
    Committee members. The Organizing Committee Chair will announce a date just prior to the cere-
    mony when names must be released due to pre-ceremony events.

5. Recognition of Award Winners. The Faculty Forum OAE Organizing Committee will arrange an
annual awards luncheon and OAE ceremony to honor the award winners.
    5.1. The Outstanding Academy Educators will be honored at an awards luncheon, scheduled during
    the week of the OAE ceremony. Invited attendees will include the Faculty Forum, award winners
    accompanied by one guest, and the Department Heads from all participating mission elements. A
    standard citation, prepared by the Faculty Forum OAE Organizing Committee, is presented to each
    award winner at this luncheon.
USAFAI36-2811 2 AUGUST 2006                                                                               3


   5.2. The Outstanding Academy Educators will be honored at a ceremony attended by faculty and staff
   from all participating mission elements. Additionally, specific special guests will be invited to attend,
   at the discretion of the Dean of Faculty. A wood-based “Flying Leather” bust with an engraved
   plaque will be presented to each OAE award winner. This bust will be prepared by the Faculty Forum
   OAE Organizing Committee.
   5.3. The names of the Outstanding Academy Educators will be inscribed on an annual plaque main-
   tained beside the bronze plaque honoring Mr. William P. Clements, located on the third floor of Fair-
   child Hall.

6. Funding. Funding for the OAE ceremony must be in accordance with current applicable financial reg-
ulations.

7. Information Collections, Records, and Forms.
   7.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
   7.2. Records Accountability. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
   publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, and dis-
   posed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
   afrims.amc.af.mil.
   7.3. Forms (Adopted and Prescribed).
       7.3.1. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
       7.3.2. Prescribed Forms: No forms are prescribed by this publication.



                                               DANA H. BORN, Brigadier General, USAF
                                               Dean of the Faculty
