BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                     INSTRUCTION 36-718
EUROPE
                                                                                23 APRIL 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                     NON-US POSITION CLASSIFICATION
                                                                   OUTSIDE GERMANY




              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no release restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/A1KKC                                              Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1K
                                                                   (GS-15 Monique F. Botting)
Supersedes:   USAFEI36-718, 27 April 2006                                            Pages: 9


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 36-7, Employee and Labor Management
Relations. It provides United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) policy, guidelines, and
procedures for conducting and implementing the position classification program for non-US
citizen positions administered by USAFE Civilian Personnel Staff (CPS) in Italy, Spain, Turkey,
Norway, Portugal and the United Kingdom (direct hire). Programs include both appropriated
and nonappropriated fund (NAF) positions. It does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) and
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located in Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS on the AF
Portal: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the OPR using AF Form 847, Recommendation f or
Change of Publication.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This change adds HQ USAFE/A1K approval authority for certain classification actions (para
1.1.6.1); adds clarification of ‘timely manner’ for developmental positions (paragraph 1.3.12);
adds differentiation between local classification survey and classification consistency survey
(paragraph 4). It updates HQ USAFE office symbols to include Civilian Personnel Flights to
Civilian Personnel Staff. Changes.
 2                                                               USAFEI36-718 23 APRIL 2012


1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. The Civilian Policy Section (A1KKC):
        1.1.1. Develops policies, methods, and procedures for the conduct and maintenance of
        the position classification program.
        1.1.2. Develops classification guidelines and implementing instructions, which interpret
        evaluation criteria or grade determining factors, contained in the applicable classification
        guidelines.
        1.1.3. Provides technical advice or advisory allocations upon request.
        1.1.4. Evaluates the civilian personnel staff program maintenance.
        1.1.5. Coordinates technical aspects of the Local National Position Classification
        Program with other United States (US) Forces elements.
        1.1.6. Reviews and makes recommendations on appeal cases, advisory allocations and
        claims, and complaints regarding position classification disputes.
        1.1.6.1. The Chief, Personnel Support Division (A1K) is the approval authority for
        appeal cases, advisory allocations and claims, and complaints regarding position
        classification disputes.
        1.1.7. Coordinates the development of standardized position descriptions (SPD)
        proposed by respective USAFE functional activities. HQ USAFE/A1KKC is the final
        classification authority for all published SPDs.
     1.2. Commanders to Whom a CPF is Assigned. Commanders will ensure through the
     CPF:
        1.2.1. The proper conduct and maintenance of a position classification program
        according to the provisions of applicable guidelines, implementing instructions and SPDs
        published                                                                             by
        HQ USAFE/A1KKC.
        1.2.2. Promotion of a classification program through the issuance of local publications
        and use of communication media to achieve understanding and acceptance of the
        program by the employees and their supervisors.
        1.2.3. Coordination of the classification program with the appropriate functions within
        civilian personnel, manpower, and resource management.
        1.2.4. Reporting trends and developments requiring changes or revisions in established
        classification guides, procedural requirements and SPDs.
        1.2.5. Compiling and consolidating legal or technical background material needed for the
        settlement of classification reviews or appeals.
        1.2.6. Active supervisory participation in meeting position review requirements and
        promptly reporting changes in major duties and responsibilities to the appropriate civilian
        personnel staff.
        1.2.7. Use of individual, group or supervisory audits to determine necessary
        classification adjustments of all positions recommended for change by a supervisor at the
USAFEI36-718 23 APRIL 2012                                                                     3


     time of a survey or through an individual position action request. No position is
     upgraded based solely on time spent in grade by an employee. Audits are required before
     assigning higher graded duties or upgrading an occupied position, except developmental
     positions up to and including the target grade.
     1.2.8. The use of published USAFE SPDs whenever a position may be matched. A
     match occurs whenever the major duties and responsibilities of a position are
     substantially identifiable with those in the SPD.
     1.2.9. The maintenance of classification accuracy is a shared responsibility between
     management and the civilian personnel staff (CPS).
  1.3. Managers and Supervisors. Each manager and supervisor having the authority to
  establish, abolish, or assign duties to positions will:
     1.3.1. Exercise the concepts of sound classification and position management practices,
     principles and procedures. Comparison with seemingly similar positions in other
     organizations with different missions is not a valid classification criterion.
     1.3.2. Establish and maintain within his or her area of responsibility an effective position
     structure consistent with approved mission, manpower authorizations and administrative
     authorities. Advise manpower, civilian personnel staff or other appropriate offices and
     provide pertinent documents relative to proposed organizational and position structure
     changes.
     1.3.3. Assign duties, responsibilities, and authorities to positions to achieve optimum
     balance of economy, effectiveness and productivity, skill utilization, employee
     motivation and development in conformance with the objectives of sound position
     management. If the position is to be used for purposes other than those indicated by the
     manpower document, appropriate changes must be sought through manpower channels.
     1.3.4. Consider the impact on all other positions in the function, and coordinate with the
     civilian personnel staff before assigning duties to any position that may result in a grade
     change. The personal attributes of an incumbent, such as special knowledge, skill,
     abilities, talents, or achievements should not result in a position becoming materially
     different that what it would otherwise have been but for impact of the person on the job.
     Unfortunately, the fact that an individual in a position possesses these personal attributes
     is not sufficient reason by itself to classify the position to a higher grade. These
     individuals should be recognized through the awards program.
     1.3.5. Prepare individual Position Descriptions (PD) for subordinate positions when an
     adequate SPD does not exist.
     1.3.6. Review and certify at least once every four years to the accuracy of each PD for
     which accountable.
     1.3.7. Execute all administrative requirements of AFI 31-501, Personnel Security
     Program Management for certification or recertification of individuals assigned to
     positions designated sensitive.
     1.3.8. Initiate request for personnel action whenever position changes are required.
 4                                                                USAFEI36-718 23 APRIL 2012


        1.3.9. Be familiar with the classification and qualification standards for those
        occupations that constitute the core of the supervisor's organization in order to:
            1.3.9.1. Participate with the position classification specialist in determining the
            classification of all new or changed positions in terms of applicable standards and
            available SPDs.
            1.3.9.2. Advise employees of their assigned duties and responsibilities and of the
            grade controlling aspects of their position.
        1.3.10. Advise employees of their right to review classification standards and of their
        grievance and appeal rights regarding position classification.
        1.3.11. Support the classification program by defending classification decisions to
        subordinates.
        1.3.12. When working with developmental positions, supervisors will ensure that
        employees are provided with the necessary training to progress to the next higher grade in
        the career ladder in a timely manner (i.e., 6 – 12 months) or document specific
        performance deficiencies if the employee will not be promoted in a timely manner.
        Supervisors must also ensure that the employee has demonstrated the potential to perform
        at the full performance level at the next higher grade in a career ladder before initiating
        action to promote the employee.
        1.3.13. Periodically review with each employee his or her official PD to determine if it
        contains a statement of each major duty currently assigned and being performed, noting
        any significant change since it was last reviewed.
2. Position Classification Procedures. Non-US positions are classified using applicable
classification guidelines and job grading standards established for the country in which they are
located and based on collective labor and host country agreements.
     2.1. Position Description Standard of Adequacy. A position description meets the
     standard of adequacy when it states the principle duties, responsibilities, and supervisory
     relationships of a position in a sufficiently clear manner so as to provide information
     necessary for its proper classification. Other readily available and current information on the
     organization, functions, programs, and procedures should be considered in the classification
     of a position.
     2.2. Essential Elements. The description of principle duties, responsibilities, and
     supervisory relationships of a position are essential for classification purposes. This includes
     duties which are operative during a substantial part of the time or which affect the
     qualifications required to perform the work. For positions with significant duties at different
     grade levels or in more than one occupational group, the percentage of time spent performing
     each duty may be essential in determining the classification.
3. Position Description. The official position description is the key document in the
classification of the position. Use AF Form 1378, Civilian Personnel Position Description, (or
AF Form 1003, Air Force Core Personnel Document, if so desired) for appropriated fund
positions and AF Form 1065, Non Appropriated Fund (NAF) Civilian Position Description, for
NAF positions. Include the following four major components regardless of the type of position:
     3.1. I--Introduction.
USAFEI36-718 23 APRIL 2012                                                                        5


   3.2. II--Major Duties and Responsibilities.
   3.3. III--Controls Over the Position.
   3.4. IV--Special Qualification Requirements.
   3.5. Note: Specify the following items: organizational location, position classification,
   civilian position control number (CPCN), the number of identical additional (IA) positions
   (optional), supervisory level code, growth potential, and standard position description
   identification, if appropriate. The supervisor signs the basic position description.
4. Position Certification and Classification Surveys. The supervisor and the classification
specialist must re-certify the accuracy of each position description at least once every four years.
Planned systematic review of an organization, through classification surveys, are optional and
may be used at the discretion of the civilian personnel staff. The personnel specialist conducting
the survey documents the actions, findings and recommendations and provides a copy to the
organization.
5. Position Changes. All position descriptions must accurately describe current duties and
responsibilities. When duties change, supervisors must submit a revised position description to
the CPS. Classifiers must assure duties are accurately reflected in the position descriptions.
New classification standards applicable to non-US positions must be applied within 6 months of
the date of receipt.
6. Evaluation Statements. Evaluation statements to substantiate position classification will be
prepared and attached to position descriptions whenever there is a need for clarification of the
classification decision.
7. Organization Books and Charts. Organization books and charts are not required, but are
highly encouraged. File non-US and United States (US) position descriptions (appropriated and
non-appropriated standardized and non-standardized) within organization books. Should
organization books not be maintained, ensure a filing mechanism of some sort is established that
clearly reflects the documents mentioned in paragraphs 7.1 and 7.2, as appropriate.
   7.1. Records. Whatever filing system is maintained, it should be organized by organization
   (largest organizations broken into organizational segments). Each section should contain the
   original position description (with the supervisor’s signature) and applicable evaluation
   statements. Optional documents to maintain would include the current functional statement
   and organizational chart. Remove canceled position descriptions when the position is
   abolished or the position description is superseded. Maintain canceled position descriptions
   in an inactive file for 5 years.
   7.2. Organizational Charts. If organizational charts are maintained, they should reflect
   organizational and functional lines and information on all military and civilian positions. In
   addition, an organizational chart depicting sub-units should be maintained. Ensure all
   positions on the organizational charts can be identified with the appropriate manning
   documents.
 6                                                      USAFEI36-718 23 APRIL 2012


8. Requests for Classification Advice. Contact HQ USAFE/A1KKC for advice or assistance
for those situations where additional classification guidance is necessary.




                                       CHRISTOPHER C. SHARPE, Colonel, USAF
                                       Director Manpower, Personnel, and Services
USAFEI36-718 23 APRIL 2012                                                               7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor Management Relations, 15 December 2008
AFI 31-501, Personnel Security Program Management, 27 January 2005
AFI 36-1401, Position Classification, 1 August 1997
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
USEUCOM Directive 30-6, Personnel
ITALY--Conditions of Employment, USAFEI36-712, Joint Civilian Personnel Manual (JPCM),
14 January 2003
SPAIN--Spanish Works Regulations and JUSMG Manual
TURKEY--Classification Handbook and Standard Job Descriptions CPDs TUR 9 and 25
PORTUGAL--LFI36-4 Vol 1, Personnel, Work Regulation and labor Agreement
NORWAY--USAFEI36-752, Administration of Local National (LN) Direct Hire Employees in
Norway, 22 March 2005
UNITED KINGDOM--USAFEI 36-704, Administration of UK Direct Hire Civilian Employees,
13 August 2004
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 1003, Air Force Core Personnel Document, 1 May 1991
AF Form 1065, Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Civilian Position Description, 1 October 1979
AF Form 1378, Civilian Personnel Position Description, 1 March 1979

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CPS—-Civilian Personnel Staff (can be Flight or Section)
HQ USAFE/A1KKC—-Civilian Policy Section
NAF—-Nonappropriated Fund
PD—-Position Description
SPD—-Standardized Position Description
CPCN—-Civilian Position Control Number
IA—-Identical Additional
PD—-Position Description
US—-United States
 8                                                               USAFEI36-718 23 APRIL 2012


USAFE—-United States Air Forces in Europe

Terms
Audit— An interview, conducted by a person competent in the classification process, to
determine the current duties and responsibilities of a position and the accuracy of the position
description. The interview is normally conducted at the work site where the work methods and
processes can be observed.
An "individual/site/desk audit" is an interview with the incumbent of the position.
A "group audit" is an interview with two or more incumbents occupying identical positions.
A "supervisory audit" is an interview with an operating official to determine the duties and
responsibilities for a vacant or occupied subordinate position.
Classification Survey— The planned systematic review of an organization to assure that
positions are properly described and classified.
Duties— Assigned work tasks to be performed by the individual. Major or principal duties are
those that support the position’s existence; constitute the paramount qualifications; are grade
controlling; and typically occupy the majority of the incumbent's time. Duties that are neither
significant to the classification nor necessary to determine qualification requirements need not be
described.
Individual Position Description— A position description prepared for a position not covered by
a standardized position description.
Position Classification— The allocation of a civilian position to a pay plan or pay system,
occupational series, salary or wage group and title.
Position Description— An official record of major duties and responsibilities assigned to a
position.
Position Management— The arranging of duties and responsibilities among positions in such a
manner as to achieve maximum economy and efficiency in recruiting , developing, motivating,
and retaining competent employees.
Position Review— A review by a supervisor or position classification specialist to determine the
accuracy and adequacy of a position or to develop information for the preparation of a position
description.
Responsibilities— Obligations to carry forward assigned tasks to a successful conclusion, meet
deadlines, adhere to specifications or administer programs.
Standardized Position Description— A single position description used for a number of like
positions. Standardized position descriptions are not intended to limit the duties that may be
assigned locally to a position, nor do they represent a requirement that all the duties be placed in
the local position. If the duties of the SPD do not conform to those required by the position, an
individual position description should be prepared locally. The classification specialist
determines if a standard position description is appropriate for the work situation.
USAFEI36-718 23 APRIL 2012                                                                9


Statement of Difference— A position description used for developmental positions which
usually references duties of the higher graded target position being performed with a lesser
degree of responsibility and independence.
