BY ORDER OF THE                                              HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                               ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 33-301

                                                                           10 SEPTEMBER 2010

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                 ADMINISTERING THE COMMAND DETAIL
                                                                         PROGRAM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 ABW/CCEA                                                       Certified by: 10 ABW/CCS
Supersedes: USAFAI 33-301,                                                   (CMSgt Stef Dunson)
            7 June 2006                                                                   Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information Management,
and establishes responsibilities and procedures for requesting, assigning, and performing
command details. It applies to all permanent-party personnel assigned to the USAF Academy
including Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes the primary approval or disapproval authority to 10 ABW/CC for details (paragraph 2.)
including requests for waivers or excusals (paragraph 6.); adds that the supervisor of the detail is
responsible to provide roll call and feedback to the 10 ABW/CCS (paragraphs 4.8.1.-4.8.3.);
adds that unit detail monitors or first sergeants are responsible to provide detailee with all
pertinent information about the detail (paragraph 5.1.1.).
1. What is a Command Detail? A command detail is a function or task essential to the
Academy's mission, which an Academy organization requests and cannot perform using people
or financial resources under the requester's control. Command details normally include duties
 2                                                      USAFAI33-301 10 SEPTEMBER 2010


that may be filled by members from any organization. However, they may request specific
skills, AFSCs, or knowledge.
2. Managing the Program:
     2.1. 10th Air Base Command Chief (10 ABW/CCM). 10 ABW/CCM acts for the 10th
     Air Base Wing Commander (10 ABW/CC) in monitoring and tasking Academy
     organizations for requested details.
     2.2. 10 ABW/CCS:
        2.2.1. Inputs organizational strength data, provided by the Military Personnel Section
        (10 FSS/FSMP) on a quarterly basis, into a “Details” computer program that assists in
        determining which organization is next to fill a detail and the number of people required
        from that organization. Although civilians may be used to fill a detail where appropriate,
        their numbers are not added to the organization’s strength data.
            2.2.1.1. Tasking frequency and magnitude will be adjusted for organizations with
            disproportionate numbers of officers or enlisted when the tasking is predominantly
            directed at either group (e.g., enlisted luggage handler or escort officer).
        2.2.2. Documents any deviations or exemptions from the computer's tasking and tasks
        the organization on the next detail processed.
        2.2.3. Updates data with each detail and gives detail credit on the estimated number of
        hours it takes to accomplish the detail. For example, if the detail takes an estimated 4
        hours, 10 ABW/CCS gives 4 hours of credit; if the detail takes an estimated 3 days
        (based on an 8-hour day), 10 ABW/CCS gives 24 hours of credit. It does not credit
        organizations failing to support assigned details.
        2.2.4. Forwards a copy of the detail delegation memorandum to the AFGE Local 1867 so
        they can track the assignment of civilians.
        2.2.5. Will provide/add 10 ABW/CCEA to the detail tasker message for documentation
        and tracking.
            2.2.5.1. 10 ABW/CCEA will track all detailees and send the detail requester a
            compiled list of detail personnel by the detail tasker message deadline.
3. Who May Request Detail Personnel. The Commandant of Cadets, the Dean of Faculty, the
Director of Athletics, the 10 ABW Commander, the Preparatory School Commander, 306 Flying
Training         Group,         and      the         USAFA           Staff       elements
(A1/FM/HC/HO/IG/JA/PA/RR/SE/CCP/A5A8A9/IP/CM/A6).
4. Requesting Details. Detail requesters:
     4.1. Exhaust all available internal manpower resources (military and civilian), possible
     contract/service agreements, or any other means to accomplish the task before requesting
     command details. Since the Academy's manpower pool will not always be available,
     commanders and supervisors must actively try to accomplish their missions other than
     through the Command Detail Program.
     4.2. 10 ABW/CV or a designated representative must approve all requests, except
     CORONA, graduation, parents weekend, COSAS and cadet/cadet candidate in-processing.
USAFAI33-301 10 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                    3


      4.2.1. Disinterested party inventories and cash verifications.
      4.2.2. Supporting official visits and conferences.
      4.2.3. Financial liability officers under Reports of Survey.
      4.2.4. Summary Court Officers.
      4.2.5. Courts-martial support personnel (other than members).
      4.2.6. Inspection/exercise augmentees.
   4.3. Make your request for detail support, using the format in Attachment 1, as far in
   advance as possible (but not less than 30 days). In the cases of those details occurring on
   short notice (for example, Summary Courts Officer and some directed by 10 ABW/CC),
   notify 10 ABW/CV as soon as notification is made. After approval, fax or telephone
   10 ABW/CCS to expedite processing time.
   4.4. Organization requesting detail is responsible for arranging all meetings and briefings for
   tasked individuals.
      4.4.1. Organization requesting detail will identify Point-of-Contact and collect names of
      detailees.
      4.4.2. Organization requesting detail will notify 10 ABW/CV or                    designated
      representative if required detailees are not identified by the required date.
   4.5. Immediately notify 10 ABW/CCS if detail is cancelled or changed.
   4.6. Make sure all tasked individuals get a proper briefing on their duties to include job
   safety training as outlined in AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety,
   Fire Prevention and Health (AFOSH) Program, Attachment 2, emphasizing safety-related
   issues.
   4.7. As necessary, issue all required Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE) to detailed
   personnel to safely accomplish the task; i.e., foot, eye, and hearing protection, gloves, traffic
   vests, flashlights, etc. Requestor is responsible for supplying the necessary equipment.
   4.8. Appoint detail supervisor and ensure individuals are supervised at all times.
      4.8.1. The supervisor for each detail will provide feedback to the 10 ABW/CCS so credit
      can be given.
      4.8.2. The supervisor will do a roll call to ensure detailers are present. If they do not
      show up, provide that feedback at the end of the detail to the 10 ABW/CCS.
      4.8.3. Advise the tasked organization's Unit Detail Monitor/First Sergeant when detailed
      personnel fail to report at the proper time and date.
5. Responding to Requests for Detail Personnel. The tasked agency's commander, first
sergeant, or detail monitor:
   5.1. Uses the following criteria when deciding eligibility:
   5.1.1. Unit detail monitor, first sergeant, or requesting agency will provide the detailee with
   all pertinent detail information (reporting instructions, uniform to be worn, etc.)
 4                                                      USAFAI33-301 10 SEPTEMBER 2010


        5.1.2. All permanent-party enlisted (AB through SMSgt) and officer (2d Lt through Lt
        Col) personnel are eligible for command details. You may assign appropriated fund
        civilians details according to their grades and job descriptions. Use volunteers, when
        possible, before using mandatory tasking for civilians. Do not assign civilians to details
        that would require personal expenses such as obtaining clothing their jobs do not
        normally require. Use the following pay grades as military grade equivalents when
        tasking civilians:
 E-1 through E-8                       O-1 through O-5
 GS-01 to GS-07                        GS-08 to GS/GM-12
 WG-01 to WG-15                        WS-11 to WS-15
 WL-01 to WL-15
 WS-01 to WS-10

        5.1.3. Senior enlisted, officers, and civilians. You may assign a detail to Chief Master
        Sergeants, senior officers (colonel and above), and civilians (GM/GS-13, WS-16, and
        above) only when a detail specifically requires those grades. The 10 ABW/CCS does not
        count these people in the manpower resources. However, organizations receive credit for
        details these people perform.
     5.2. Is responsible to provide a memorandum, approved by 10 ABW/CV, with a list of
     people who are exempt from details to the 10 ABW/CCS.
     5.3. Fills all quotas within the suspense date established by 10 ABW/CCS.
     5.4. Maintains an equitable system on each individual assigned and levies details
     accordingly.
     5.5. Sends written justification to 10 ABW/CCS for excusal from detail requirements if their
     organization cannot support the detail as tasked (see paragraph 6).
     5.6. Acts immediately when a requesting agency (requester) advises them that an individual
     fails to report for a detail by finding the missing individual or providing an acceptable
     substitute.
     5.7. Coordinates with 10 ABW/CCS for time periods during which they wish to speed up or
     delay their detail tasking because of mission requirements (see paragraph 6).
     5.8. Appoints, in writing, to 10 ABW/CCS a primary and alternate detail monitor and
     updates these memorandums as soon as changes occur.
6. Requesting Waivers or Excusals. Organizations requesting waivers or excusals from
performing command details must fully justify themselves, in writing, and acquire the
Commandant of Cadets, Dean of the Faculty, Director of Athletics, 10 ABW Commander,
Preparatory      School      Commander,       and     the     USAFA       Staff      elements
(A1/FM/HC/HO/IG/JA/PA/RR/SE/CCP/A5A8A9/IP/CM/A6) signature on their requests.
Include relevant information extracted from Air Force or higher headquarters directives, or on
local commitments. Send justifications to 10 ABW/CV for approval or disapproval. If there is a
specific time period during the year when a squadron needs to be excused from details, send a
USAFAI33-301 10 SEPTEMBER 2010                                                                    5


memorandum at least 30 days before the time period to 10 ABW/CV. Include in the
memorandum the specific time period of excusal, reason for excusal, and point of contact.
7. Granting Compensatory Time and Requesting Credit for Details:
   7.1. The Academy encourages supervisors to grant compensatory time off to eligible
   personnel who perform details during other than normal duty hours. Pay overtime to Federal
   Wage System and nonexempt employees if worked beyond normal duty hours.
   7.2. Academy organizations that directly task Academy people for specific details (safety
   investigations, escort officers, discharge boards, courts-martial, aircraft investigation boards,
   ground accident investigation boards, summary court officer duties, etc.) must report, in
   writing, to 10 ABW/CSS the name, grade, organization, dates of the detail, and number of
   estimated hours of credit to be given.
8. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   8.1. Prescribed Forms. No forms are prescribed by this instruction.
   8.2. Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                             TODD W. ROBISON, Colonel, USAF
                                             Vice Commander, 10th Air Base Wing
 6                                                        USAFAI33-301 10 SEPTEMBER 2010


                                            Attachment 1
                        SAMPLE DETAIL REQUEST MEMORANDUM

                                   (Use Appropriate Letterhead)

                                                                                     Date

MEMORANDUM FOR 10 ABW/CV

FROM: (Must be two-letter office symbol)

SUBJECT: Request for Command Detail Support

1. Under USAFAI 33-301, request command detail support for the following:

     a. Type of detail: (inventory, conference support, Graduation Week, CORONA, etc.)

  b. Authority for this request: (Reference the appropriate instruction, OPLAN, etc. DO NOT
USE THIS INSTRUCTION AS THE AUTHORITY.)

     c. Date and time detail is required:

     d. Number of personnel required:

     e. Number of estimated hours and/or days detail personnel will be used:

     f. Type of uniform to be worn:

     g. Place, date, time, and person to whom detail personnel will report:

     h. Detail supervisor/phone number:

     i. Date/time organizational meeting will be held:

     j. Other applicable information:

2. This detail is essential to the mission of the United States Air Force Academy. I have
exhausted all internal resources and I certify that this detail cannot be accomplished without the
support of the Command Detail Program.


                                               (Signature of individual at 2-letter office symbol)
