BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                              USAFE INSTRUCTION 36-722
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                                       30 JULY 2004
                                                                    Certified Current 28 November 2011
                                                                                             Personnel

                                                            LABOR LITIGATION NON-US CITIZEN
                                                                      EMPLOYEES (GERMANY)



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: HQ USAFE/A1CP                                                       Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1C
       (Ms Eva Schmitt-Vogeley)                                                     (GS-15 John C. Day)
Supersedes USAFE I 36-722, 25 May 1999.                                                       Pages: 13
                                                                                         Distribution: F

This instruction implements AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations and outlines and
implements the provisions of pertinent agreements that govern proceedings before German labor courts
and social courts arising from the employment of non-US citizen personnel by the US Forces in the Fed-
eral Republic of Germany (FRG). It applies to all US Air Force, and other Department of Defense (DoD)
elements serviced by an Air Force Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF) that employ such personnel under the
terms of the Collective Tariff Agreement (CTA II) or individual employment agreements related thereto.
This instruction does not apply to Air National Guard (ANG) or Air Force Reserve Command Units
(AFRC). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are main-
tained in accordance with AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at: .

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

Updates References. Reflects revised delegation of FRG representation in labor and social court litiga-
tions (paragraph 3.). Updates office symbols from DP to A1, and the designation of the responsible office
of the Controlling and Services Directorate from Defense Cost Administration to Foreign Forces Payroll
Office (FFPO).


1. Basic Reference.
   1.1. Article 44 and Article 56, paragraph 8, Supplementary Agreement (SA) with Germany to the
   North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement (NATO SOFA).
   1.2. Para 9, Protocol of Signature relating to Article 56, para 9, SA to the NATO SOFA.
2                                                                          USAFEI36-722 30 JULY 2004


2. General Principles.
    2.1. Paragraphs 1.1. and 1.2. establish the jurisdiction of German courts over individual and group
    disputes arising from the employment of non-US citizen personnel by the US Forces in the FRG. In
    any litigation, the FRG will act as the nominal defendant or respondent or plaintiff or petitioner for the
    United States. No agency or member of the US Forces or of its civilian component will formally act as
    litigant in court cases instituted by or against non-US citizen personnel. Hence, promptly refer any
    service of process, summons, or other court notification erroneously directed to an agency or member
    of the United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) to the responsible German authority through the
    servicing Civilian Personnel Flight (CPF).
    2.2. Rights or obligations established by decisions, decrees, orders, or compromise settlements origi-
    nating in court proceedings will accrue to or be met by the United States. The execution of final court
    rulings will rest with the concerned Air Force activity (see paragraph 5.).

3. Cooperation with German Authorities.
    3.1. The US Embassy for the US Forces, and the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMOF) for the FRG
    have concluded an administrative agreement concerning cooperation between the German authorities
    and the authorities of the US Forces and their civilian component in the settlement of disputes,
    (Attachment 2) is the English version of that agreement. Principles to be observed in the application
    of the agreement are laid down in an exchange of letters (Attachment 3).
    3.2. To meet the requirements of reference 1.2. and to prevent the need for individual requests, the
    FRG has agreed to generally act on behalf of the US Forces in all legal disputes under the German
    Federal Personnel Representation Law (FPRL) in which an agency of the US Forces or civilian com-
    ponent would be a participant (petitioner or respondent) in proceedings before a labor court.
    3.3. For litigations arising in the area of the US Forces, the FMOF has delegated its authority for rep-
    resentation of the FRG in proceedings before labor courts and social courts of all levels to the Ministry
    for the Interior and for Sports of Rheinland-Pfalz. They have sub-delegated this authority to the Con-
    trolling and Services Directorate - Foreign Forces Payroll Office (FFPO) - Kaiserslautern.

4. Policy.
    4.1. Supervisors and management officials at all levels will effectively contribute toward keeping
    labor court disputes to a minimum by strict compliance with governing German law, CTA II (USAFE
    Pamphlet 36-720, Tariff Agrements That Apply to Persons Employed by the U.S.Forces in Germany
    (English Translation)), and pertinent regulatory publications, maintenance of constructive employee
    and labor management relations, fair and equitable treatment of employees; and prompt consideration
    and processing of employee grievances and complaints filed in accordance with established internal
    procedures.
    4.2. Employees will not be encouraged to appeal any personnel or management decision to a labor
    court. On the other hand, employees resorting to this channel will not be subject to restraint, interfer-
    ence, coercion, discrimination or reprisal. Supervisory personnel will refrain from supporting an
    employee’s appeal to a labor court or prejudicing the official management or command position. Tes-
    timony given as a witness, whether in writing or during a court hearing, will be objective, factual, rel-
    evant, and precise.
USAFEI36-722 30 JULY 2004                                                                                   3


   4.3. To the maximum extent possible, employee court appeals found to be justified before the opening
   of or during legal proceedings will be settled by court compromise or formally documented
   out-of-court settlement. Final court decisions and decrees will be executed and complied with
   promptly in order not to put the integrity of the Air Force as an employer at stake.

5. Responsibilities.
   5.1. The Chief, Civilian Personnel and Personnel Resources (HQ USAFE/A1C), will:
       5.1.1. Exercise staff supervision and provide general guidance in the administration of legal
       actions covered by this instruction. Action agencies in paragraph 5.2. below may contact HQ
       USAFE/A1C for advice and assistance at any stage of proceedings, including pre-litigation. HQ
       USAFE/A1C will be contacted promptly whenever management actions based on specific word-
       ing of host country law, collective tariff agreements, USAFE policy or procedural instructions are
       challenged in court, or whenever there is reason to believe that adverse judgments/decrees are
       likely to involve controversial or precedent-setting issues with more than local implications.
       5.1.2. Determine, and render a decision regarding action-responsibility for processing court cases
       at the first appellate level, including decision to request initiation of appeal, where permissible, in
       the issues reported under instructions in last sentence of paragraph 5.1.1. above.
       5.1.3. In any case, determine the appropriateness of appeals to the Federal Labor or Social Court,
       where permissible, and decide on action-responsibility for processing appeals at that level for the
       command.
       5.1.4. Assume or delegate action-responsibility for processing at all labor court levels disputes
       arising from legal action taken by or against the Command Works Council (CWC) at HQ USAFE
       under provisions of the FPRL.
       5.1.5. Coordinate with the FMOF on all matters that require settlement under Attachment 2,
       paragraphs 2. or 4.4.
       5.1.6. Maintain a reference file of precedent setting appellate court decisions rendered in the area
       of jurisdiction of the United States or other Sending States Forces (SSF), and advise CPFs of such
       decisions, as appropriate.
   5.2. Commanders delegated authority for civilian personnel administration will, through their CPF,
   and unless action-responsibility is assumed or retained at HQ USAFE, administer labor and social
   court litigations at first, second, and, if directed, third level in coordination with the responsible Ger-
   man defense counsel (paragraph 3.3.). This responsibility will include:
       5.2.1. Investigation and documentation of underlying causes.
       5.2.2. Determination on the validity of an employee’s appeal (paragraph 4.3.).
       5.2.3. Preparation and timely transmission of defense writs, or petitions in decree proceedings to
       the defense counsel appointed, or lawyer hired by competent German authorities, (paragraph 3.3.)
       5.2.4. Nomination of suitable witnesses and making such witnesses available.
       5.2.5. Assistance to the German defense counsel or lawyer before court. Presence of a representa-
       tive of the CPF in all court sessions is essential to ensure prompt and competent reaction to state-
       ments and allegations of the other party in the proceedings, and to provide immediate response to
4                                                                         USAFEI36-722 30 JULY 2004


       the court to questions on employment details, working conditions, etc., that are not known to the
       German defense counsel.
       5.2.6. Determination on the feasibility to propose an amicable settlement or the acceptance or
       non-acceptance of a compromise proposal made by a first level or appellate court. Court compro-
       mises which involve precedent setting issues will be concluded on a conditional basis only, and
       HQ USAFE/A1CP will be consulted as to acceptance or non-acceptance to ensure due consider-
       ation of command interests. The same applies to other compromises that involve payments to a
       plaintiff at an amount exceeding indemnities provided for in the tariff agreement(s).
       5.2.7. Preview of judgments or decrees, determining whether appeal, if permissible, should be
       taken, and requesting responsible German authorities to file appeal, if appropriate. In situations
       covered by Attachment 2, paragraphs 2. and 4.4., the matter will be referred to HQ USAFE/A1C
       for action as stated in paragraph 5.1.5. There will be no direct contacts between local US Air Force
       elements and the FMOF on labor litigation other than through HQ USAFE/A1C.
       5.2.8. Taking all actions necessary to comply with a binding court decision or decree, and pro-
       cessing bills for costs of litigation in paragraph 7.2. below.
       5.2.9. On completion of a court case at local or first appellate level, furnishing HQ USAFE/A1CP
       one copy of any decision or decree on precedent setting issues (see last sentence of paragraph
       5.1.1.); decisions or compromise settlements on disputes that, before litigation, had been referred
       to HQ USAFE under formal cooperation or codetermination procedures for negotiation with the
       CWC; and first appellate court decisions or decrees or locally handled issues on which further
       appeal to the competent Federal Court is proposed by management or filed by an employee. In the
       latter case, HQ USAFE/A1CP will be promptly provided advance telephone information on pro-
       nouncement of a decision or awarding of a decree to ensure established deadlines for filing an
       appeal or complaint are met.
       5.2.10. Providing HQ USAFE/A1C with all information required by provisions in paragraph 6.2.

6. Dissolution of Employment Contract by Court Decision.
    6.1. When a German labor court decides that a notice of separation is not socially justified under the
    terms of the Protection against Dismissal Act, and, hence, does not terminate the employment con-
    tract, the employee must be reinstated unless dissolution of the employment contract is approved by
    the court on request of either management or the plaintiff based on Articles 9 and 10 of the same law.
    Approval or disapproval of such request is entirely at the discretion of the court and will depend on
    circumstances of the case. If a request for dissolution is approved, the court will “ex officio” provide
    for indemnification of the employee at an amount that is basically established in consideration of
    seniority in employment and age, and may involve payment of up to 18 months’ wages or salaries. In
    view of established deadlines for filing a dissolution request (Not later than during the last hearing at
    the first appellate court level) an appropriate determination as to whether continued employment or
    reinstatement of an employee would be detrimental to the best interests of the employing organization
    will be made at an early stage of proceedings. As a rule, properly supported requests will be filed with
    the court of first instance, preferably as part of the initial writ.
    6.2. In modification of legal provisions discussed in paragraph 6.1., the US Forces may request disso-
    lution of the employment contract based on paragraph 1 of Article 9 of the Protection against Dis-
    missal Act also “on the ground that the continuation of employment is precluded by military interests
USAFEI36-722 30 JULY 2004                                                                                   5


   particularly worthy of special protection”. In this event, the CPF will immediately inform HQ
   USAFE/A1CP and provide a statement signed by the responsible commander (paragraph 5.2.) justify-
   ing and explaining the reasons for the refusal to continue employment. HQ USAFE/A1C will be the
   OPR for coordinating and staffing a final determination with concerned staff offices whether the facts
   and circumstances of the case support this assertion and prepare a written declaration to the court
   establishing its creditability. In this case, proceedings before the court shall be held in camera. The
   legal basis for this modification is established in Article 56, paragraph 2, SA to the NATO SOFA, as
   amended effective 29 Mar 98. It does not apply to members of works councils.

7. Cost of Litigation.
   7.1. The FFPO will bill employing Air Force organizations for costs of litigations, which are reim-
   bursable by the US Air Force under paragraphs 8 or 9, and according to procedures in paragraph 12,
   Attachment 2 to this instruction.
       7.1.1. The term “appropriate authority” in Attachment 2, paragraph 9 refers to HQ USAFE.
       Responsible authorities of the FFPO (paragraph 3.3.) will direct requests for approval of payment
       to HQ USAFE/A1C before any action is taken that will result in costs, which do not constitute
       necessary costs of attainment of justice.
       7.1.2. The term “appropriate authority” in Attachment 2, paragraph 12., sentence 1, for the pur-
       pose of this instruction, refers to the CPF servicing the activity involved in the labor court action.
   7.2. The CPF will review the bill to determine whether all cost items are properly specified and doc-
   umented on vouchers and subject to reimbursement under provisions referenced in paragraph 7.1., if
   appropriate.
       7.2.1. Bills that are considered outside the scope of the agreement, or not properly specified, will
       be returned to the appropriate German authority with a statement of reasons for the return. Dis-
       putes concerning payment of bills, which cannot be resolved at the installation level, will be
       referred to HQ USAFE/A1C for settlement.
       7.2.2. If the bill is found correct, the CPF will execute and sign the following certification:
       “I certify that the bill is correct and payable under the terms of the administrative agreement
       between the FMOF and the US Embassy concerning the cooperation in the settlement of disputes
       of 30 January/17 April 1967 (USAFEI 36-722, Attachment 2).
       7.2.3. Bills referring to litigations that involve appropriated fund employees or a works council
       will be forwarded to the appropriate Accounting and Finance Officer for payment, together with
       the certification prescribed in paragraph 7.2.2. Processing of an SF 1034, Public Voucher for
       Purchases and Services other than Personal, will effect payment. Court costs are properly
       chargeable to the applicable Operation and Maintenance (O&M) appropriation, Element of
       Expense/Investment Code (EEIC) - 592. Labor court costs resulting from legal action instituted by
       or against a works council are chargeable to funds of the installation at which the respective coun-
       cil is established. Fiscal year funds current at the time the court action was finally concluded (that
       is, the date of entry into effect of an amicable settlement or legal validity of a court decision) will
       be cited. Costs so incurred will be considered as contractual services and recorded in the cost
       detail account of the activity involved.
6                                                                   USAFEI36-722 30 JULY 2004


    7.2.4. Bills payable by nonappropriated fund instrumentalities (NAFI) will be forwarded to the
    installation or servicing Nonappropriated Fund Resource Management Flight for payment,
    together with supporting documentation and the certification executed according to paragraph
    7.2.2. Costs are chargeable to the NAFI on whose payroll employees involved were carried. If that
    activity was dissolved pending court proceedings, the Nonappropriated Fund Resource Manage-
    ment Flight will forward the bill to Director of Services (HQ USAFE/A7S).



                                                ED KRINGER, Colonel, USAF
                                                Director of Personnel
USAFEI36-722 30 JULY 2004                                                                        7


                                          Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
German Federal Personnel Representation Law (FPRL)
Protection against Dismissal Act
NATO Status of Forces Agreement (NATO SOFA)
AFPD36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations
USAFE Pamphlet 36-720, Collective Tariff Agreement, CTA II (Tariff Agreements That Apply To Persons
Employed by the U.S. Forces in Germany (English Translation)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CTA II—Collective Tariff Agreement
CWC—Command Works Council
FFPO—Foreign Forces Payroll Office
FMOF—Federal Ministry of Finance
FPRL—German Federal Personnel Representation Law
FRG—Federal Republic of Germany
NAFI—Non-appropriated Fund Instrumentalities
NATO SOFA—NATO Status of Forces Agreement
SA—Supplementary Agreement
SSF—Sending States Forces
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
8                                                                         USAFEI36-722 30 JULY 2004


                                              Attachment 2

            ADMINISTRATIVE AGREEMENT FOR SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES
                         (30 JANUARY 1967/17 APRIL 1967)
Pursuant to Article 44 of the SA to the NATO SOFA concerning the cooperation between the German
authorities and the authorities of the US Forces and the civilian component in the settlement of disputes.
1. This Administrative Agreement pertains to disputes.
1.1. Arising from contracts concluded by the German authorities for the account of the authorities of the
US Forces or the civilian component (hereinafter referred to as the “Force”), including contracts entered
into by the German authorities in accordance with the German-American Administrative Agreements
concerning the execution of construction projects.
1.2. Arising out-of-work, personnel representation, or social insurance of civilian labor with the Force,
except insofar as the settlement of disputes is controlled by the “Agreement concerning Performance of
Payroll Office Functions for Personnel of the European Exchange System (EES).”
1.3. Referred to in subparagraph (c) of paragraph 1 of Article 62 of the SA to the NATO SOFA, i.e., cases
in which requisitioning procedures (“Anforderungsverfahren”) have been carried out on behalf of the
Force under German procurement legislation, with the exception of the Restricted Areas Law and Land
Procurement Law.
1.4. Arising from contracts for direct procurement of goods or services by the Force to the extent that they
contain no provisions for the settlement thereof and, hence, will be adjudicated in accordance with the
second sentence of Article 3 of the Agreement between the FRG and the United States of America on the
Settlement of Disputes Arising out of Direct Procurement of August 3, 1959.
2. The German authorities and the authorities of the Force shall at all times closely cooperate in order to
settle such disputes. In case of differences of opinion between the German authorities and the authorities
of the Force, which cannot be settled on the level of the subordinate agencies, agreement will be reached
between Headquarters, United States Army, Europe, APO AE 09403, or Headquarters, United States Air
Forces in Europe, APO AE 09094, and the competent highest German federal authorities. This does not
affect the instruction under No. 4.4.of this attachment.
3. Whether or not court proceedings are involved, the German authorities shall terminate such disputes
only in agreement with the authorities of the Force.
4. Where, as a result of such disputes, court proceedings have been instituted against the FRG as the nom-
inal defendant for the United States, the conduct of the litigation shall be as follows:
4.1. The competent authority of the Force (i.e., Headquarters, United States Army, Europe, APO AE
09403, or Headquarters, United States Air Force in Europe, APO AE 09094, or any agency designated by
these headquarters) shall be notified without delay of the lodging of a plaint or the serving of a payment
order. In labor and social court cases, this notification shall be addressed to the Civilian Personnel Office
of the military district or Air Force installation concerned. The competent authorities of the Force shall be
consulted at all material stages of the proceedings. For this purpose, it shall be provided as soon as possi-
ble with copies of the documents essential for the litigation, especially the plaint (Klageschrift) or pay-
ment order, the replay thereto (Klageerwiderung), appeals (Rechtsmittelschriften), briefs in support of
appeals (Rechtsmittelbegründungen), and replies thereto (Rechtsmittelerwiderungen), notification of liti-
gation (Streitverkündigungen), court decisions (gerichtliche Entscheidungen), protocols on the taking of
USAFEI36-722 30 JULY 2004                                                                                     9


evidence (Beweisaufnahmeprotokolle), proposals for compromise settlements (Vergleichsvorschläge)
and compromise settlements (Vergleiche).
4.2. When concluding a compromise settlement, the German authority shall reserve the right of revoca-
tion within an appropriate period and obtain the consent of the authority of the Force. The authority of the
Force shall furnish the German authority its decision in due time to allow a declaration of revocation to
the court within the revocation period.
4.3. If a decision is issued in favor of the opposing party, the German authority shall examine whether an
appeal is admissible and has prospects of success. It shall inform the authority of the Force without delay
of its opinion, forwarding a complete copy of the decision and stating the period for lodging an appeal.
4.4. The decision as to whether or not an appeal should be lodged shall be mutually agreed by the German
authority and the authority of the Force. Failing agreement, the German authority shall lodge an appeal if
the authority of the Force at the highest level confirms its essential interest in such action being taken. The
authority of the Force shall not object to the lodging of an appeal if an authority of the FRG at the highest
level confirms its essential interest in such action being taken. The party insisting on the appeal being
taken shall notify the other party, upon request, as to the reason for such appeal.
5. No. 4. of this attachment applies, mutatis mutandis, with respect to court proceedings instituted by the
FRG with the understanding that the principles set forth in No. 4.4. of this attachment shall also be applied
to the filing of complaints.
6. No’s. 4. and 5.of this attachment apply, mutatis mutandis, with respect to court proceedings for the
decision of disputes arising out of the personnel representation legislation (Beschwerdeverfahren) in
which the FRG takes part on behalf of the Force.
7. All rights or obligations established in favor of or against the FRG by judgments, decisions, orders, or
settlements (vollstreckbare Titel) in court proceedings arising from disputes referred to in No. 1. of this
attachment shall accrue to the United States or be met by them.
8. The Unites States will bear the expenditures, including attorney fees, incurred by the German authori-
ties in connection with these lawsuits and in taking actions pertaining to the execution of judgments, deci-
sions, orders, or settlements as a result of such lawsuits to the extent they constitute necessary costs of
attainment of justice (Rechtsverfolgung und Rechtsverteidigung) (Section 91, German Code of Civil Pro-
cedure) and provided that their payment can neither be demanded from, nor be enforced against, the other
party, and provided, in the latter case, that the bill for expenditure incurred is accompanied by a statement
confirming that collection efforts made have failed.
9. Costs which do not constitute necessary costs of attainment of justice will be borne by the United States
only if consent has been obtained from the appropriate authority of the Force prior their accrual.
10. Where, solely as a result of an authority of the Federal Republic at the highest level having confirmed
its essential interest in the lodging of a plaint or an appeal, the authority of the Force does not object to
that action being taken and if the plaint or appeal gives rise to additional costs in the court proceedings,
such additional costs shall be borne by the FRG unless otherwise agreed in the case concerned.
11. The United States shall not be responsible for reimbursement of costs of litigation to the extent to
which such costs are established to have been incurred as a result of deliberate intention or gross negli-
gence in the conduct of the litigation by the employees acting for the FRG in the litigation.
10                                                                        USAFEI36-722 30 JULY 2004


12. Amounts payable by the FRG to the opposite party as a result of judgments, decisions, orders or set-
tlements (vollstreckbare Titel) and costs of litigation which are reimbursable by the United States, will be
requested by the German authorities from the appropriate authority of the Force not later than 3 months
after the conclusion of court proceedings. The request shall be documented by attached vouchers. The
competent authority of the Force will pay the amount requested within one month after receipt of the
vouchers. In case of judgments, decisions, orders or settlements which are enforceable before they
become final (vorläufige vollstreckbare Urteile) payment shall be requested and effected if the opposing
party requests immediate payment and execution cannot be precluded otherwise. If in these cases a deci-
sion obligating the FRG to effect payment is later reversed, the FRG shall take all appropriate measures to
obtain a refund of the amount paid; the amounts reimbursed shall be credited to the Force.
13. If the opposing party is obligated to make payments as a result of judgments, decisions, orders or set-
tlements (vollstreckbare Titel) and does not pay voluntarily within an appropriate period, the German
authority will seek execution of such judgments, decisions, orders or settlements. The amounts collected
will be set off against those amounts reimbursable to the FRG with regard to the same litigation, and or
remitted to the Force.
USAFEI36-722 30 JULY 2004                                                                                  11


                                               Attachment 3

               SELECTION OF LEGAL COUNSEL AND DEFENSE PRINCIPLES
In exchange of letters between the US Embassy and the German Federal Government confirming the
administrative agreement (Attachment 2) the parties agreed to observe the following principles:
1. If in litigations the FRG is to be represented by legal counsel, the selection of counsel is the responsi-
bility of the German authority. In particular cases, the appropriate authority of the Force may recommend
the employment of a certain attorney whom it considers to be particularly qualified in the individual case
because of this specific knowledge. The German authority will take such recommendation into consider-
ation. If the German authority has objections to employing the recommended attorney, it will inform the
authority of the Force of its objections. In the event that differences of opinion in this respect remain
between the German authority and the authority of the Force, No. 2 of paragraph 2 of the administrative
agreement shall apply unless special arrangements (e.g., in the field of construction matters) already pro-
vide for cooperation between the appropriate highest German federal authority and the appropriate
authority of the Force in litigations.
2. If the authority of the Force desires that specific procedural steps be taken either in support or in
defense of a suit, the German authority will take such request into consideration. If the German authority
has objections to taking the measures suggested by the authority of the force, it will notify the authority of
the Force of these objections. In the event that differences of opinion remain between the German author-
ity and the authority of the Force, No. 2 of paragraph 2 of the administrative agreement shall also apply in
this case unless special arrangements (e.g., in the field of construction matters) already provide for coop-
eration between the appropriate highest Federal German authority and the appropriate authority of the
Force in litigations.
3. If the United States suffers damages attributable to fault by the attorney employed by the German
authority, the Federal Republic (FR) shall take all measures in the interest of the United States that are
necessary in order to obtain compensation for the damage incurred. The amounts paid will be credited to
the US Forces.
12                                                               USAFEI36-722 30 JULY 2004


                                                Attachment 4

     PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR PROCESSING COURT CASES AT BASE LEVEL


IF LAWSUIT             THEN
INVOLVED
                       Consult HQ USAFE/ Refer to HQ USAFE/ Inform HQ USAFE/ Provide copy
                       A1CP                A1CP for action/    A1CP                of decision/
                                           decision                                decree/
                                                                                   compro-mise
1. Application/        Promptly when filed Promptly on receipt ________________ On receipt
interpretation of law, ________________ of 1st level court     Promptly when filed
collective agreement,                      decision/ decree
or policy,
________________
Disputes previously
referred to HQ
USAFE for
negotiation with
Command Works
Council
2. Security dismissal Prior to declaration in                  Promptly on service Within one
                      1st level court (para                    of adverse decision week from
                      6.2.1., basic                                                receipt,
                      instruction)                                                 together with
                                                                                   supporting
                                                                                   statements/
                                                                                   documenta-ti
                                                                                   on (para
                                                                                   6.2.3., basic
                                                                                   instruction)
3. Conclusion of       Prior to final
compromise (only       conclusion
issues specified under
1., and when
payments to plaintiff
exceed those
provided for in the
tariff agreement(s)
(para 5.2.6., basic
instruction)
USAFEI36-722 30 JULY 2004                            13


IF LAWSUIT           THEN
INVOLVED
4. Need for                 Promptly
coordination with
FMOF under para 2
and 4.3., Attachment
1, and para 5.2.7.,
basic instruction
5. Appeal to Federal        Promptly on receipt
Labor Court,                of 1st appellate court
regardless of issue         decision
