Headquarters
United States Army Europe
                                                                                                   Army in Europe
Wiesbaden, Germany                                                                               Regulation 210-60*
Headquarters
United States Army Installation Management Command
  Europe Region
Sembach, Germany

Headquarters
United States Air Forces in Europe/
                                                                                                    USAFE/USAFAF
 United States Air Forces Africa                                                                Instruction 32-9001*
Ramstein, Germany
                                                                                                         18 June 2013

                                                          Installations

                              Establishing Exterior Protective or Safety Zones
                                       (Schutzbereiche) in Germany

                            *This publication supersedes USAREUR Regulation 210-60/
                                     USAFE Instruction 32-9001, 9 June 1997.

For the Director:

ROBERT C. MYERS
Chief of Staff

Official:




DWAYNE J. VIERGUTZ
Chief, Army in Europe
  Document Management


Summary. This publication prescribes procedures for developing, processing, and administering exterior
protective or safety zones (Schutzbereiche) for U.S. military facilities in Germany.

Summary of Change. This publication has been revised to convert USAREUR Regulation 210-60 to
AE Regulation 210-60. Administrative changes have been incorporated throughout.

Applicability. This publication applies to all U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force units in Germany.

Records Management. Records created as a result of processes prescribed by this publication must
be—

● Identified, maintained, and disposed of by Army in Europe units according to AR 25-400-2. Record
titles and descriptions are available on the Army Records Information Management System website at
https://www.arims.army.mil.



                                                                1
                                      AE Reg 210-60/USAFE-USAFAF Instr 32-9001 ● 18 June 2013
● Maintained by USAFE units in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located in the Air Force
Records Information Management System at https://www.my.af.mil/gcs-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

Supplementation. Commanders will not supplement this publication without approval of the Real Estate
Branch, Strategic Initiatives Group, Garrison Support Element, IMCOM-Europe.

Suggested Improvements. The proponent of this publication is the Real Estate Branch, Strategic
Initiatives Group, Garrison Support Element, IMCOM-Europe (DSN 496-5872). Users may send
suggestions to improve this regulation on DA Form 2028 to IMCOM-Europe (IMEU-GGR), Unit 23103,
APO AE 09136-3103.


                                                CONTENTS

1. Purpose
2. References
3. Explanation of Abbreviations and Terms
4. Responsibilities
5. General
6. Criteria for Establishing Restricted Areas
7. Requests for Establishing Restricted Areas
8. Preliminary Coordination with German Authorities
9. Reviewing and Processing Restricted-Area Requests
10. Canceling Restricted-Area Classification
11. Annual Inspections of Restricted Areas
12. Construction Requests in Restricted Areas
13. Surveillance of Restricted Areas

Glossary


1. PURPOSE
This publication—

    a. Is a guide for U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force personnel in Germany to identify the need for exterior
protective or safety zones (Schutzbereiche) for U.S. military facilities and installations in Germany.

   b. Prescribes procedures for requesting exterior protective or safety zones and for maintaining them.

2. REFERENCES

   a. Supplementary Agreement to the NATO Status of Forces Agreement.

  b. NATO Document AASTP-1, Manual of NATO Safety Principles for the Storage of Military
Ammunition and Explosives.

   c. NATO STANAG 7174, Airfield Clearance Planes.


                                                       2
                             AE Reg 210-60/USAFE-USAFAF Instr 32-9001 ● 18 June 2013
   d. AR 385-10, The Army Safety Program.

   e. Technical Manual 5-803-4, Planning of Army Aviation Facilities.

   f. AE Regulation 190-13, Army in Europe Physical Security Program.

    g. USAREUR Regulation 405-8/USAFE Instruction 32-9005, Acquiring, Managing, and Disposing
of Real Estate in Germany.

   h. USAREUR Regulation 405-11, Provision of Alternate Facilities in Germany.

   i. Air Force Manual 91-201 and USAFE Supplement 1, Explosives Safety Standards.

   j. USAFE Instruction 32-1007, Airfield and Heliport Planning and Design.

3. EXPLANATION OF ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS
The glossary defines abbreviations and terms used in this regulation.

4. RESPONSIBILITIES

    a. Commanders. In Germany, commanders of U.S. Army units and commanders of U.S. Air Force
units are responsible for identifying restricted areas (glossary) near installations their units occupy. If a
need exists, commanders will prepare requests for exterior protective or safety zones for submission to the
Real Estate Branch, Strategic Initiatives Group, Garrison Support Element, IMCOM-Europe (IMCOM-
Europe (IMEU-GGR), Unit 23103, APO AE 09136-3103).

       (1) U.S. Army units will submit requests through the United States Army garrison (USAG)
responsible for the area where the protective or safety zone is needed.

       (2) U.S. Air Force units will submit requests through one of the following, as applicable:

          (a) The Air Force Civil Engineering Center (AFCEC)/Environmental and Real Property
(CFEE) for restricted areas on United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE)/United States Air Forces
Africa (USAFAF) installations.

           (b) The USAG responsible for restricted areas for the applicable U.S. Army installation.

    b. USAG Commanders and AFCEC/CFEE. USAG commanders and AFCEC/CFEE will do the
following:

       (1) On receipt of a request to establish an exterior protective or safety zone—

           (a) Review, validate, and endorse the request. Requests that cannot be validated will be returned
to the requester.

        (b) Forward requests recommended for approval, together with an endorsement memorandum,
to IMCOM-Europe (IMEU-GGR), Unit 23103, APO AE 09136-3103.



                                                        3
                              AE Reg 210-60/USAFE-USAFAF Instr 32-9001 ● 18 June 2013
NOTE: USAFE/USAFAF installation commanders will send their requests to HQ USAFE/USAFAF/A7P
for technical review and to AFCEC/CFEE for coordination.

       (2) Review German construction requests or development plans that affect U.S. restricted areas on
U.S. Army installations.

NOTE: HQ USAFE/USAFAF/A7P will review German construction requests received by
USAFE/USAFAF if the request or development plan affects restricted areas for USAFE/USAFAF
installations.

       (3) Take measures to ensure that units with restricted areas apply continual vigilance over those
areas and that they report known or suspected violations of these areas in accordance with paragraph 13.

5. GENERAL

    a. Article 53 of the Supplementary Agreement to the NATO Status of Forces Agreement prescribes
German responsibility for establishing restricted areas close to U.S. facilities and installations. German
authorities normally set up a restricted area only on receipt of a U.S. request. German authorities may,
however, establish restricted areas to comply with German safety standards. The U.S. Government does
not acquire real estate in restricted areas.

   b. Restricted areas include areas near any of the following:

       (1) Airfields.

       (2) Air-defense sites.

       (3) Ammunition storage areas and basic-load storage areas.

       (4) Forward storage sites.

       (5) Radio-relay and other communications facilities.

       (6) Radar stations.

       (7) War-reserve sites.

   c. Restrictions are grouped in two general categories:

        (1) Effective Operations. These restrictions include limitations on construction that would
interfere with radio transmissions. They also apply to restraints on cultivation and construction to ensure
an unobstructed view.

       (2) Safety or Protective Criteria. These restrictions include safety zones for airfield approach-
and-departure areas, airfield-clear areas, ammunition storage areas and related explosive-safety-quantity
distances, force-protection zones, and traffic zones.

    d. Failure to obtain an adequate restricted area could affect operations at U.S. facilities and
installations. Commanders must therefore submit timely and accurate restricted-area requests to ensure full
use of the areas by the U.S. Forces.
                                                          4
                                AE Reg 210-60/USAFE-USAFAF Instr 32-9001 ● 18 June 2013
6. CRITERIA FOR ESTABLISHING RESTRICTED AREAS
Normally U.S. Forces standards are applied when establishing restrictions that involve safety measures.
Exceptions include NATO or German criteria. Army in Europe units may request details concerning
NATO, German, and U.S. standards by contacting the IMCOM-Europe Safety Office. Air Force units may
request the same information by contacting the HQ USAFE/USAFAF/A7P. Paragraph 2 lists references
that prescribe technical guidance for determining which areas are restricted.

7. REQUESTS FOR ESTABLISHING RESTRICTED AREAS

   a. Existing Operations. Restricted-area requests for operations at locations already under U.S. control
should include an installation-layout plan.

    b. New Construction or Facilities Modification. New constructions or modifications to existing
facilities may affect existing restricted areas. The U.S. commander responsible for a new construction or a
modification must report any changes that affect an existing restricted area or that require establishment of
a new restricted area. In areas that affect class V storage or air-defense facilities, Army commanders must
request approval of the construction or modification from the USAREUR Safety Office and the DOD
Explosives Safety Board. Air Force units will follow procedures in Air Force Manual 91-201.

    c. New Construction on Land to be Acquired by the U.S. Forces. USAREUR Regulation 405-8/
USAFE Instruction 32-9005 provides guidance on the acquisition, management, and disposal of real estate
in Germany. If new construction with the accommodation-program request for the land to be acquired
requires a restricted area, the requirement will be sent to the Real Estate Branch (IMCOM-Europe (IMEU-
GGR), Unit 23103, APO AE 09136-3103). If the size of the restricted area depends on the final
construction layout and concurrent submission is not possible, the U.S. commander will submit the request
at the earliest possible date. If classV facilities are involved, the restricted-area requirement must include
consideration of the proposed loading and be approved by the IMCOM-Europe Safety Office.

8. PRELIMINARY COORDINATION WITH GERMAN AUTHORITIES
On receipt of a request for a restricted area—

   a. The USAG safety manager or AFCEC/CFEE will coordinate requirements for air-defense and
ammunition-storage facilities with the Wehrbereichskommando (WBK) (German Military District
Command) or Wehrbereichsverwaltung (WBV) (German Military District Administration) to establish
mutually acceptable boundaries or zones. This coordination is only for development purposes. U.S.
commanders will not confirm any needs until the Real Estate Branch validates the requirement.

    b. The USAG safety manager or HQ USAFE/USAFAF/A7P will ensure that the safety zones for
external-exposure areas comply with prescribed German and U.S. criteria.

  c. The USAG safety manager or AFCEC/CFEE will forward the request to IMCOM-Europe (IMEU-
GGR), Unit 23103, APO AE 09136-3103.

9. REVIEWING AND PROCESSING RESTRICTED-AREA REQUESTS

    a. Requests should clearly state the intent to limit only construction or cultivation. Designating an area
as a “restricted area” does not result in establishing realty rights for the land that comprises the restricted
area.


                                                         5
                               AE Reg 210-60/USAFE-USAFAF Instr 32-9001 ● 18 June 2013
       (1) Responsible commanders will submit requests only if the requirement is critical to the safe
operation and effectiveness of their facilities.

        (2) Requests that would deny public access to or involve U.S. control over areas around military
installations are not considered requests for restricted areas. These requests are for acquisition of sole use
and occupancy rights by the U.S. Forces.

    b. Commanders will send restricted-area requests by memorandum to IMCOM-Europe (IMEU-GGR),
Unit 23103, APO AE 09136-3103, through the channels prescribed in paragraph 4. Requests must include
the following:

       (1) Transmittal Memorandum. The memorandum must be signed by the requesting commander
and include the following statements:

           (a) Terrain configuration and local conditions were considered when planning the restricted
area.

           (b) The requested restriction represents the minimum requirement.

       (2) Narrative Data Sheet. This sheet must be an enclosure to the transmittal memorandum ((1)
above) and include the following:

           (a) Type and location of the U.S.-controlled facility.

            (b) Location and extent of the restricted area (square area or linear distance). Specific reference
points will be used (for example, antenna dish, storage magazine).

           (c) Specific limits to be imposed.

           (d) Length of time the restricted area is required.

        (3) Maps and Plans.

            (a) Map Scale. Maps of the U.S. facility or installation and restricted areas must be plotted on a
scale of 1:10,000, 1:25,000, or 1:50,000.

           (b) Map Colors. The following color codes will be used in maps of restricted areas:

               1. Dark yellow: U.S. installation boundary.

               2. Blue: Zone III public road.

               3. Red: Zone IV inhabited building or restricted area.

               4. Green: Zone V special object.

      (4) Required Copies. Each request must comprise one original and eight copies. All copies of
maps must be in color.


                                                         6
                               AE Reg 210-60/USAFE-USAFAF Instr 32-9001 ● 18 June 2013
   c. The Real Estate Branch will give the responsible USAG directorate of public works copies of
approved restricted-area requests and copies of accompanying maps and plans.

10. CANCELING RESTRICTED-AREA CLASSIFICATION
To cancel a restricted-area classification when a restricted area is no longer needed, the commander of the
U.S.-user organization will immediately send a memorandum requesting cancellation through the channels
described in paragraph 4 to IMCOM-Europe (IMEU-GGR), Unit 23103, APO AE 09136-3103. The Real
Estate Branch will review the request and, if approved, send it to the German authorities for action, with a
copy furnished to the requester.

11. ANNUAL INSPECTIONS OF RESTRICTED AREAS

    a. German regulations require the German restricted-area authority (glossary) to inspect restricted areas
once a year. The purpose of these inspections is to detect restricted-area violations and to take corrective
action.

   b. The German restricted-area authority will notify the Real Estate Branch before a planned inspection.
The Real Estate Branch will then inform the USAG closest to the restricted area or AFCEC/CFEE and
provide the dates of the inspection. In response, the applicable USAG or AFCEC/CFEE will—

       (1) Notify the U.S.-user unit of the upcoming inspection.

        (2) Ensure that a U.S. representative accompanies the German inspectors or acts as the U.S. POC
during the inspection. The U.S. representative should be prepared to answer questions and report suspected
violations or noted irregularities inside the restricted area and outside but near the restricted area.

    c. U.S. commanders will work with the German officials who conduct these inspections. Inspectors
usually limit their activities to a walk-through or drive-through of the restricted area. The German
inspectors will—

       (1) Let the U.S. user of the restricted area know when the inspection will start.

        (2) Meet the U.S. representative (b(2) above) at the entrance of the U.S. facility nearest the
restricted area where the inspection will be conducted.

       (3) Carry official German armed-forces identification and show this identification on request.

12. CONSTRUCTION REQUESTS IN RESTRICTED AREAS

   a. The categories of German construction requests that affect restricted areas are—

        (1) German construction or zoning and utilization plans that may have an adverse effect on a
restricted area.

       (2) Construction or development projects in a restricted area.




                                                        7
                              AE Reg 210-60/USAFE-USAFAF Instr 32-9001 ● 18 June 2013
   b. The following procedures apply to processing German construction requests:

       (1) U.S. Army commanders will immediately review the request and send it, with an appropriate
recommendation, through the commander of the USAG that would be affected by the construction to the
Real Estate Branch for decision. The USAG commander will always send recommendations to the Real
Estate Branch for decision, regardless of where the request originated.

        (2) If proposed construction, zoning, or utilization plans are expected to partially or fully impede
U.S. operations, the commander receiving and forwarding the request will include requirements for
alternate facilities as defined in USAREUR Regulation 405-11 with his or her recommendation.

       (3) The WBV, through the responsible air-traffic-control office, normally submits requests for
evaluation of proposed obstructions in restricted areas established for airfields to IMCOM Europe (IMEU-
GGR). The IMCOM Europe Real Estate Branch will then request that the United States Army
Aeronautical Services Detachment, Europe, and the Aviation Operations Branch, Office of the Deputy
Chief of Staff, G3, HQ USAREUR, evaluate the potential obstruction and provide a consolidated response
to appropriate German officials.

    c. Air Force agencies and affected installations under USAFE/USAFAF control that receive requests in
the categories described in a(l) or a(2) above will send the requests, with appropriate comments or
recommendations, to HQ USAFE/USAFAF/A7P, Unit 3050, APO AE 09094. On receipt of the request,
the HQ USAFE/USAFAF/A7P will respond to the German authorities or issue instructions to the
responsible Air Force unit.

13. SURVEILLANCE OF RESTRICTED AREAS
Surveillance of restricted areas is basically the responsibility of German authorities. German Federal
authorities have asked the U.S. Forces to help by reporting suspicious construction or activity in restricted
areas. U.S. commanders will help keep watch over restricted areas. This participation is limited. The U.S.
Forces may not enter restricted areas to patrol or inspect them. If violations are suspected—

    a. U.S. Army units will immediately report the suspected violation to the Real Estate Branch. A layout
plan or mapsheet showing the approximate location of the suspected violation must be sent with the report.

   b. Units on U.S. Air Force installations will follow the procedures in Air Force Manual 91-201.




                                                        8
                              AE Reg 210-60/USAFE-USAFAF Instr 32-9001 ● 18 June 2013
GLOSSARY

SECTION I
ABBREVIATIONS


AASTP                        allied ammunition storage and transport publication
AFCEC                        Air Force Civil Engineering Center
AR                           Army regulation
CFEE                         Environmental and Real Property
DOD                          Department of Defense
HQ USAFE/USAFAF              Headquarters, United States Air Forces in Europe/United States Air Forces
                               Africa
HQ USAREUR                   Headquarters, United States Army Europe
IMCOM-Europe                 United States Army Installation Management Command, Europe Region
NATO                         North Atlantic Treaty Organization
STANAG                       standardization agreement
U.S.                         United States
USAFE/USAFAF                 United States Air Forces in Europe/United States Air Forces Africa
USAG                         United States Army garrison
USAREUR                      United States Army Europe
WBK                          Wehrbereichskommando
WBV                          Wehrbereichsverwaltung

SECTION II
TERMS

● English:

German restricted-area authority
The German Military District Administration (Wehrbereichsverwaltung (WBV)), the German Military
District Command (Wehrbereichskommando (WBK)), and component agencies. These agencies are
administrators of restricted areas for defense installations.

restricted area
A defined area near a U.S. Forces facility or installation on which German authorities impose restrictions.
These restrictions maintain the safety and effectiveness of the U.S. facility or installation and its
operations. Restricted areas defined in this regulation are not the restricted areas defined in AR 190-13, AE
Regulation 190-13, or Air Force Instruction 31-101V1.

● German:

Schutzbereich
Restricted area.

Wehrbereichskommando
German Military District Command.

Wehrbereichsverwaltung
German Military District Administration.
                                                        9
                              AE Reg 210-60/USAFE-USAFAF Instr 32-9001 ● 18 June 2013
