BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 32-7001

                                                                               9 JANUARY 2012

                                                                               Civil Engineering

                                                     NATURAL RESOURCES ON THE USAF
                                                                          ACADEMY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 CES/CEAN                                                     Certified by: 10 CES/CEAN
                                                                                 (Mr. Phil Marne)
Supersedes:    USAFAI32-7001,                                                           Pages: 10
               15 August 2006


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 32-70, Environmental Quality,
and the Colorado wildlife laws, which apply to the U.S. Air Force Academy’s (USAFA) Natural
Resources program. It instructs how to administer the program and describes the rules that apply
to fishing, hunting, and the protection of natural resources on USAFA, including Farish
Recreation Area and Bullseye Auxiliary Airfield. Other corresponding guidance is outlined in
the USAFA Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan and in Air Force Instruction (AFI)
32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management. This instruction applies to anyone
assigned to or residing on USAFA and all persons authorized to fish, hunt, or otherwise utilize
USAFA’s natural resources and open space. This publication applies to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and
conflicts between this and other publications to 10 CES/CEAN, 8120 Edgerton Drive, Suite 40,
USAF Academy, Colorado 80840-2400, on Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates paragraphs 2.1.1., 2.2.1., 2.2.2., 2.2.3., 2.3.1., 2.3.10., and 2.3.11.
concerning fishing permits and new fishing regulations; paragraphs 2.4.1. and 2.4.4. concerning
 2                                                           USAFAI32-7001 9 JANUARY 2012


handicap access and lake restrictions; paragraph 3.4.3. concerning the road kill salvage
procedures; paragraph 8.1., 8.2., and 8.3. concerning use of the official recreational trails; and
updated and added new definitions in Attachment 1.
1. Administration of the Natural Resources Program:
     1.1. The Commander of the 10th Civil Engineer Squadron (10 CES/CC) is responsible for
     the fisheries, wildlife, range, and forestry management programs and oversees the
     implementation of the USAFA Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan (INRMP).
     1.2. Natural Resources (10 CES/CEAN) implements the INRMP and conducts daily
     management and operations through a Cooperative Agreement with the US Fish and Wildlife
     Service (USFWS) and Colorado Parks and Wildlife (CPW). The agreement with USFWS
     also includes providing professional Department of the Interior staff to carry out the USAFA
     natural resources management function.
     1.3. Security Forces (10 SFS), CPW and USFWS are responsible for enforcing all applicable
     fishing, hunting, and other wildlife laws and regulations (see Attachment 2).
     1.4. The Force Support Squadron (10 FSS) issues the USAFA Form 130, USAF Academy
     Fishing Permit, and collects fishing and hunting related fees, including the sign-up fee for the
     annual elk hunt drawing. The collection of fees is authorized by the Sikes Act Improvement
     Act (Section 670a-670o of Title 16, United States Code (U.S.C.)), with the receipts being
     deposited for 10 CES/CEAN in a reimbursable conservation program account (57x)
     administered by the Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment (AFCEE).
     1.5. The 10 CES/CEAN, 10 SFS, Farish Recreation Area (10 FSS), CPW, USFWS, and
     approved volunteers are authorized to check USAFA fishing and hunting permits and assist
     with other aspects of the hunting and fishing program (e.g., guiding hunters, collecting creel
     data). The above organizations and volunteers may also report fish and wildlife violations to
     10 SFS, CPW, and USFWS, as appropriate.
2. Fishing on the USAFA:
     2.1. Persons Authorized to Fish:
        2.1.1. The following categories of individuals are eligible to purchase or receive a free
        annual fishing permit for USAFA: Active duty military, USAFA cadets, Preparatory
        School students, military retirees, USAFA civil servants, USAFA non-appropriated fund
        employees, Army and Air Force Exchange Service personnel, visiting professors
        assigned to USAFA faculty, USFWS creel census volunteers, persons or groups with
        special authorization from 10 CES/CC, Purple Heart award recipients, persons with a
        60% or higher service connected disability documented by the Department of Veterans
        Affairs, military reservists with temporary duty orders for USAFA, and their immediate
        family members (see Attachment 1).
     2.1.2. Guests of the individuals in the categories listed in paragraph 2.1.1., and all other DoD
     civilian employees (and their guests) are only eligible to purchase one-day fishing permits.
        2.1.3. Overnight guests at Farish Recreation Area (i.e., occupants of the camping or
        lodging facilities) that are not eligible for a USAFA fishing permit based on paragraph
        2.1.1. may purchase a one-day fishing permit for each day of their stay, including the day
        of checkout.
USAFAI32-7001 9 JANUARY 2012                                                                       3


  2.2. Purchasing a USAFA Fishing Permit (USAFA Form 130, USAF Academy Fishing
  Permit):
     2.2.1. Annual permits and one-day permits, USAFA Form 130, USAF Academy Fishing
     Permit, are sold at the USAFA Outdoor Recreation Center, Farish Recreation Area, and
     the Peregrine Pines FamCamp. An annual permit is valid from 1 January to 31
     December. A second rod permit, good only for the USAFA and Farish Recreation Area
     lakes, may also be purchased which allows a fisherman to simultaneously have two
     fishing rods in the water, but does not increase the daily creel limit.
     2.2.2. If an eligible fisherman (see paragraph 2.1.1.) is under 16 years of age, a USAFA
     fishing permit is not required, but the youth can only take one-half of the normal daily
     creel limit. A youth fisherman must purchase a second rod permit (see paragraph 2.2.3.)
     if fishing with two rods simultaneously. A fisherman under 16 years of age can take a
     normal daily creel limit if an annual or one-day fishing permit is purchased.
     2.2.3. Persons with 60% or more service connected disability can receive a free lifetime
     USAFA fishing permit by visiting 10 CES/CEAN (Building 9030, Natural Resources)
     with the appropriate disability rating documentation from the Department of Veterans
     Affairs. Second rod permits are not included with the free disabled permit, and must be
     purchased separately at the USAFA Outdoor Recreation Center, Farish Recreation Area,
     or the Peregrine Pines FamCamp.
  2.3. Rules Pertaining to Fishing on the USAFA:
     2.3.1. All fishermen must possess the appropriate USAFA fishing permit and optional
     second rod permit as required by this instruction. A USAFA fishing permit is still
     required during the State’s free fishing weekend offered annually in June.
     2.3.2. A valid form of identification to confirm eligibility (see paragraph 2.1.1.) is
     required to purchase a USAFA fishing permit. Fishermen must also carry valid
     identification while fishing. Sponsors do not need to accompany family members or
     guests that are fishing, but family and guests must provide contact information for their
     sponsor (name, address, phone number, affiliation, etc.) if requested by an authorized
     official.
     2.3.3. Fishing is prohibited in the golf course ponds and non-potable reservoirs.
     2.3.4. Fishing is allowed during all hours of the day, unless the area is otherwise posted.
     2.3.5. Ice fishing is prohibited on the USAFA lakes. Ice fishing is allowed at Farish
     Recreation Area only when 10 FSS staff has determined that the ice conditions are safe.
     2.3.6. Chumming and the use of minnow traps, seines, trotlines, or floating jugs are
     prohibited.
     2.3.7. Corn or live fish (e.g., minnows) is prohibited as bait.
     2.3.8. The intentional dumping or introduction of fish or other aquatic animals and plants
     into the lakes or streams is prohibited.
     2.3.9. Grass carp, stocked for aquatic weed control, must be immediately released back
     into the lake from where they were caught.
 4                                                          USAFAI32-7001 9 JANUARY 2012


        2.3.10. Crayfish (crawdads) may be taken by hand, one baited line, trap, pot, or dip net.
        Crayfish tackle may not be left at the lakes overnight or unattended. There is no daily
        limit on crayfish, but a USAFA fishing permit is required.
        2.3.11. The daily aggregate creel limit is three catfish and four trout, including only one
        trout over 14 inches in length. The daily creel limit is the maximum number of fish you
        may take per day regardless of any disposition of the fish during that day. Other special
        restrictions may be posted as conditions require.
        2.3.12. Trash must be properly disposed of in the available garbage receptacles.
        Cleaning fish at the lakes or streams is prohibited.
     2.4. Other Rules Pertaining to the USAFA Lakes:
        2.4.1. Swimming, boating, rafting, tubing, or any other floatation device (excluding float
        tubes and rental paddleboats at Farish) is normally prohibited on the USAFA lakes and
        streams. A Coast Guard approved personal flotation device is required when using a
        paddleboat or float tube. Use of the lakes for USAFA-approved events and activities, to
        include swimming and boating, must be coordinated with 10 CES/CEAN.
        2.4.2. Vehicles must park in designated areas and may not be parked on the handicap
        fishing piers (unless displaying a handicap placard or license plate) or boat ramps.
        2.4.3. Camping and open fires are prohibited near the USAFA lakes and streams.
        2.4.4. Handicap accessible fishing piers are reserved for disabled fisherman. Mobility-
        impaired fishermen who have a handicap parking placard or license plate can request
        access through the airfield proximity card gate to drive to the Kettle Lakes. Disabled
        fishermen must obtain a USAFA Form 106, Application for Proximity Access Card, from
        10 CES/CEAN to be issued an airfield proximity card at the USAFA Pass and
        Registration Center.
3. Hunting, Trapping, and Care and Handling of Injured or Deceased Wildlife:
     3.1. The USAFA does not approve of or practice the indiscriminate killing of wildlife.
     Hunting, trapping, harassing, or dispatching nuisance or injured wildlife must be authorized
     by 10 CES/CEAN. Additional authorization from CPW or USFWS may be required
     depending on the species of concern.
     3.2. Hunting of Wildlife:
        3.2.1. The 10th Air Base Wing Commander (10 ABW/CC) is responsible for the
        approval of all USAFA hunting activities. All hunting access is at the discretion of the
        10 ABW/CC. Hunting is prohibited at Farish Recreation Area and Bullseye Auxiliary
        Airfield.
        3.2.2. Hunters must possess the appropriate State license and USAFA access permit and
        must sign a USAFA liability waiver prior to hunting.
        3.2.3. Hunting must be conducted in accordance with all USAFA safety requirements,
        CPW, and USAFA wildlife management objectives, and State or Federal wildlife laws.
        3.2.4. Information on how to obtain a State hunting license for USAFA is published each
        year in the various CPW game brochures and on the CPW website. Further details about
USAFAI32-7001 9 JANUARY 2012                                                                   5


     hunting on USAFA are available on the 10 CES/CEAN website at
     http://www.usafa.edu/10abw/10msg/ce/ces/cev/natural_resources.cfm?catname=10C
     ES, or by calling Natural Resources at (719) 333-3308.
  3.3. Trapping of Wildlife:
     3.3.1. Trapping of wildlife (other than for pest management or permitted scientific
     studies) is prohibited unless 10 CES/CEAN or other organizations (e.g., Department of
     Biology) have received approval from the appropriate State or Federal agencies.
  3.4. Care and Handling of Injured or Deceased Wildlife:
     3.4.1. Organizations and contractors that dispose of or handle any wildlife must possess
     the appropriate Federal and State permits. These organizations and contractors must
     maintain a log of all wildlife handling or disposal activities, including information on the
     species involved, cause of death or injury, individual disposing of the animal, and the
     method of disposal. Copies of the log must be provided to 10 CES/CEAN monthly.
     3.4.2. Persons involved in a wildlife-vehicle accident resulting in the injury or death of
     large mammals (fox, coyote, deer, elk, bear, mountain lion, etc.) must report the accident
     to 10 SFS, who will then report the incident to 10 CES/CEAN.
     3.4.3. Road-killed deer and elk are salvageable, but a Road Kill Wildlife Possession
     permit must be obtained from 10 CES/CEAN or CPW within 48 hours of possessing the
     animal. The 10 SFS maintains a list of people desiring to salvage road kill, with a new
     list of 30 names and contact information generated each August.
     3.4.4. The 10 SFS personnel responding to incidents of injured wildlife have the
     discretion to determine if an animal needs to be dispatched. Injured wildlife appearing to
     have a reasonable chance of survival will be left to recover on their own. If 10 SFS
     believes that an animal may have been killed or injured illegally (i.e., poaching),
     10 CES/CEAN and CPW will be notified immediately. In order to protect any evidence,
     the animal will not be disturbed or moved until CPW has had an opportunity to survey
     the scene of the incident. The 10 SFS will report all deceased and dispatched wildlife to
     10 CES/CEAN to ensure proper disposal of dead animals.
  3.5. Reporting and Controlling Potentially Dangerous or Nuisance Wildlife:
     3.5.1. The USAFA does not destroy, trap, or relocate wildlife that is not posing a direct
     and confirmed threat to human health or public safety. Any necessary relocation of
     animals off of USAFA must be approved by 10 CES/CEAN and CPW.
     3.5.2. Animals creating a possible danger or safety hazard (e.g., rattlesnakes, black bears,
     mountain lions, and injured wildlife) should be reported immediately to 10 SFS. Bear
     and other wildlife sightings can also be reported to 10 CES/CEAN at
     Bear.Watch@usafa.af.mil.
     3.5.3. Birds and their nests, eggs, feathers, and other body parts are protected by Federal
     and State laws and shall not be disturbed or possessed without 10 CES/CEAN approval
     and the necessary permits.
  3.6. Feeding and Possessing Wildlife:
 6                                                            USAFAI32-7001 9 JANUARY 2012


        3.6.1. Feeding or possessing wildlife is prohibited by State law, unless the necessary
        permits or approvals have been obtained.             The USAFA personnel (excluding
        10 CES/CEAN), housing residents, and visitors are prohibited from providing feed,
        mineral supplements, salt blocks, or other attractants to wildlife.
        3.6.2. Feeding of birds is permissible, but the number of feeding devices should be
        limited to prevent attracting larger wildlife or rodents that may present a dangerous or
        nuisance situation. Bird feeding devices may be directed to be removed by
        10 CES/CEAN or the Housing Office to prevent wildlife conflicts.
4. Protection of Other Natural Resources:
     4.1. The destruction or removal of plants (including tree limbs, bark, pinecones, flowers,
     etc.), rocks, soil, cultural resources, archeological resources, and fossils is prohibited without
     a permit or 10 CES/CEAN approval.
     4.2. Firewood and transplant trees are available for sale through 10 CES/CEAN.
     4.3. Open dumping of yard waste, household waste, or other refuse on USAFA is prohibited.
5. Off-Road Vehicle (ORVs) Restrictions:
     5.1. Off-road vehicle travel is prohibited unless authorized and necessary for official
     business or military training. Off-road vehicle (ORV) use is defined as any licensed or
     unlicensed motorized vehicle traveling on other than maintained roads. Unlicensed,
     nongovernment motorized bikes, motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, and snowmobiles are
     prohibited on all areas of USAFA. Authorized ORV users must avoid unnecessary impact to
     soils, vegetation, wildlife, or other natural or cultural resources.
6. Controlling Domestic Animals:
     6.1. Domestic pets must be under the control of the owner at all times. Stray or nuisance
     domestic animals should be reported to 10 SFS and 10 CES/CEOP (333-2790).
     6.2. Dogs must be leashed or kept in a fenced area. Dogs are allowed to swim in the
     USAFA lakes, but they may not interfere with fishermen or disturb waterfowl. It is unlawful
     for any person to allow or direct a dog under their control to chase or harass wildlife.
     6.3. Free-roaming cats are prohibited on USAFA. All cats must be kept indoors, or may be
     outdoors, but only under the constant supervision of their owner.
     6.4. Horses may only be ridden on the USAFA unpaved roads and recreational trails.
     Horses must be kept out of and away from the lakes.
7. Camping:
     7.1. Camping is only authorized in designated areas at Farish Recreation Area, Peregrine
     Pines FamCamp, and the Scout camping area near the B-52 display. Prior approval from
     USAFA Public Relations/Community Relations (HQ USAFA/PAC) at (719) 333-7482 or
     pa.comrel@usafa.af.mil is necessary to reserve space in the Scout camping area.
     7.2. The USAFA Fire Chief (10 CES/CEF) must approve open fires within the designated
     camping areas or elsewhere on USAFA.
USAFAI32-7001 9 JANUARY 2012                                                                        7


8. Recreational Trail Use:
   8.1. Hikers, runners, and cyclists must yield to horses, and cyclists must yield to pedestrians
   on all USAFA trails. Mountain bikers must maintain speeds appropriate for the sight
   distance and terrain to avoid collisions with other trail users.
   8.2. Creating new, unauthorized trails, or shortcutting between existing trails is prohibited.
   8.3. Large, USAFA-sponsored events (e.g., races, trail rides) that utilize the official trail
   system must be coordinated with 10 CES/CEAN. Events that cause new or excessive trail
   wear-and-tear may be required to reimburse 10 CES for trail maintenance and repair.




                                             MARK A. RUSSO, Lt Col, USAF
                                             Commander, 10th Civil Engineer Squadron
 8                                                       USAFAI32-7001 9 JANUARY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 September 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 32-70, Environmental Quality, 20 July 1994
DoDI 4715.03, Natural Resources Conservation Program, 18 March 2011
Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan/Environmental Assessment for the U.S. Air
Force Academy, Colorado Springs, CO, September 2008
Sikes Act Improvement Act, Section 670a-670o of Title 16, United States Code (U.S.C.)
Prescribed Forms
USAFA Form 130, USAF Academy Fishing Permit
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
USAFA Form 106, Application for Proximity Access Card, 26 September 2011

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
CPW—Colorado Parks and Wildlife (formerly Colorado Division of Wildlife, CDOW)
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USFWS—United States Fish and Wildlife Service
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy

Terms
Annual Fishing Permit—A USAFA permit allowing fishing from 1 January to 31 December.
Float tube—A floating device specifically designed for fishermen that suspends a single person
in the water from the waist down and is not propelled by oar, paddle, or motor.
Guest—A visitor, other than a family member, who is sponsored by an eligible user.
USAFAI32-7001 9 JANUARY 2012                                                                    9


Immediate Family Members—A lawful spouse; unmarried children under 21 years of age,
including adopted children, stepchildren, or wards (foster and preadoptive children) that depend
on the sponsor for over half of their support; unmarried children 21 years of age or older who
depend on the sponsor for over half of their support because of mental or physical handicaps;
unmarried children under 23 years of age enrolled full-time at an approved college, university, or
trade school; parents, including father, mother, stepparent by adoption, and parents-in-law who
depend on the sponsor for over half of their support.
One—Day Fishing Permit—A USAFA permit allowing fishing only on the day(s) listed on the
permit.
Second Rod Permit—A USAFA permit allowing a fisherman to have two rods in the water
simultaneously to catch fish. The USAFA second rod permit is not valid outside the installation
and does not increase the daily creel limit.
 10                                                  USAFAI32-7001 9 JANUARY 2012


                                     Attachment 2
               FISH AND WILDLIFE VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES

A2.1. Fishing without a USAFA permit - $50. 00. Pursuant to Title 10, United States Code,
Section 2671(c).
A2.2. Hunting without a USAFA access permit - Big game - $250. 00, Other - $50.00.
Pursuant to Title 10, United States Code, Section 2671(c).
A2.3. Trespassing onto USAFA for the purpose of hunting or fishing without the required
USAFA permit - $50. 00. Pursuant to Title 18, United States Code, Section 1382.
