BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                       INSTRUCTION 36-713
EUROPE (USAFE)
                                                                             1 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                         Personnel

                                                          STAFFING OF NON-US POSITIONS
                                                                            (GERMANY)



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFE/A1KC                                                  Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1K
                                                                         (Ms. Monique F. Botting)
Supersedes:    USAFEI36-713, 25 July 1997                                                Pages: 6


This instruction implements AFPD 36-1, General Civilian Personnel Provisions and Authorities.
It establishes policy and procedures for internal placement as well as external recruitment of
Non-US employees in Germany. The provisions of this policy apply with respect to all Non-US
civilian employees/positions of US Forces and Department of Defense (DoD) elements in
Germany who are administered and serviced by a USAFE Civilian Personnel/Human Resources
element under the terms of the Collective Tariff Agreement of 16 Dec 1966 for the Employees of
the Sending States Forces in the Federal Republic of Germany (CTA II). It does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) units. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in the publication are maintained in accordance with
Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance
with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located in AFRIMS:
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. The revision
reduces the geographical area of application to Germany, and deletes references to Greece, Italy,
and Spain. It expands the procedural application and newly includes provisions and procedures
for the filling of positions through external candidate sources. To reflect these changes, the title
changes from Merit Promotion and In-Service Placement Program (Non-US Citizen Employees)
to Staffing of Non-US Positions. References and administrative procedures are updated
throughout the document.
 2                                                          USAFEI36-713 1 DECEMBER 2011


1. Purpose:
     1.1. To establish policy and procedures for the filling of Non-US positions through internal
     and external recruitment sources.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Commanders, supervisors, and selecting officials will:
        2.1.1. Forecast personnel needs and initiate timely recruitment action.
        2.1.2. Ensure selections of applicants are based on qualification in terms of education,
        experience, skills, professional development, and demonstrated performance.
        2.1.3. Ensure selections are free of discriminatory considerations in accordance with
        applicable laws and regulations, and without regard to such factors as ethnic origin, sex,
        religion, or world view, disability, age, or sexual identity.
        2.1.4. Refrain from hiring, promoting, favoring or supporting the employment of their
        family members and relatives (nepotism). As family members/relatives in this respect are
        to be considered: Father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, first cousin,
        nephew, niece, husband, wife, father-in-law, mother-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
        brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother,
        stepsister, half brother, half sister, as well as companions in life.
        2.1.5. Accept surplus Non-US employees referred based on a mandatory placement right
        due to reduction in force (RIF).
        2.1.6. Accept placement of employees incapacitated to perform in their current position
        due to medical reasons or disability if a suitable position is or becomes available within
        the same organization. Give priority consideration to employees referred for placement
        due to medical reasons or disability from outside the organization. Make efforts to return
        employees with pay protection to their original pay grade.
        2.1.7. Provide the Civilian Personnel/Human Resources office a detailed justification if
        none of the referred candidates is considered or, as required, in support of the selection in
        individual cases.
        2.1.8. Not restrain employees from applying for positions or expose them to any adverse
        actions because of their application for other positions.
        2.1.9. Assure employees selected for promotion or reassignment, are released within 30
        calendar days after completion of the selection process. The release date must be
        mutually agreed on by the losing and gaining supervisors and, whenever feasible, should
        coincide with the beginning of a calendar month.
     2.2. Civilian Personnel/Human Resources offices will:
        2.2.1. Provide advice and assistance to commanders, supervisors, selecting officials and
        applicants/employees on all aspects of the staffing process.
        2.2.2. Ensure mandatory placement rights and other legal and/or regulatory requirements
        are observed.
USAFEI36-713 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                    3


       2.2.3. Ensure through effective recruitment procedures that selecting officials are
       provided with quality candidates, and current employees are given opportunities for
       advancement.
3. Staffing Procedure.
   3.1. Recruitment Sources:
       3.1.1. Non-competitive/exempt from announcement):
           3.1.1.1. Priority (mandatory) placement of available RIF candidates.
           3.1.1.2. Priority placement/placement consideration of current employees for medical
           reasons, disability or under pay protection.
           3.1.1.3. Name request. Request for assignment of an individual employee to a vacant
           position or assignment of higher level duties within the same organizational element
           when all other employees performing the same duties within that organizational
           element were given due consideration. A written justification to that effect will be
           submitted together with the request.
       3.1.2. Competitive recruitment. The competitive recruitment process is initiated by the
       position announcement. There are two categories of announcements, which can be
       advertized simultaneously:
           3.1.2.1. Internal (US Forces) announcement. Separate internal announcements are
           required for the following positions, except for positions to be filled without a
           material reason on a temporary basis: All positions in wage- and salary grades C, D,
           K, P, and ZB, and all positions starting at wage- and salary gradesA-7, H-2, T-3, and
           ZP-4.
              3.1.2.1.1. Areas of consideration:
Area I: The respective organization where the vacancy exists (e.g. when budgetary or manning
restrictions preclude filling of vacancies from outside the organization)
Area II: Comprises all organizations serviced by the respective Civilian Personnel/Human
Resources office (e.g. Ramstein, Spangdahlem).
Area III: Comprises all US Forces organizations in country. Announcement in this area will be
made for all position vacancies at pay grade C-8 or equivalent, and above.

              3.1.2.1.2. The minimum announcement period is 10 workdays.
           3.1.2.2. General announcement. Civilian Personnel/Human Resources offices will:
              3.1.2.2.1. Publish lower graded positions and positions for which the internal
              announcement is not likely to produce candidates or a sufficient number of
              candidates in weekly vacancy lists.
              3.1.2.2.2. Publish positions with a traditionally high turnover rate by open
              continuous announcements for a minimum period of three months.
              3.1.2.2.3. Publish announcements to host nation authorities in accordance with
              legal requirements.
 4                                                        USAFEI36-713 1 DECEMBER 2011


     3.2. Application. Applicants will submit USAFE Form 201, Application for Employment
     with the US Air Force in Germany (Non-US), together with supporting testimonials and
     certificates of qualification to the announcing Civilian Personnel/Human Resources office.
     Internal applicants will, in addition, submit USAFE Form 10, Request for Placement
     Consideration (Non-US). Employees who have not yet completed their probationary period
     are to be considered like external applicants.
     3.3. Screening and Referral. The responsible staffing specialist will:
        3.3.1. Screen application documents and/or the employee’s official personnel records to
        determine the qualifications according to USAFEI 36-703 Qualification Standards for
        Non-US Positions in Germany, position announcement using USAFE Form 260, Record
        of Qualification as a rating device and documentary proof of meeting requirements.
        3.3.2. Refer qualified candidates for mandatory placement.
        3.3.3. Refer qualified applicants identified on USAFE Form 355, Referral and Selection
        Register.
     3.4. Selection and appointment process.
        3.4.1. Selecting officials have the option and are highly encouraged to interview
        candidates referred for selection. Provided the selecting official decides to conduct
        interviews, the following minimum requirements are established:
            3.4.1.1. Internal recruitment: If an internal position announcement produces up to
            five applicants, who meet the basic qualification requirements, they must all be
            interviewed. If more than five applicants are referred for selection, the
            supervisor/selecting official must interview at least five applicants.
            3.4.1.2. General recruitment: If the general position announcement produces up to
            three applicants meeting basic qualification requirements, they must all be
            interviewed. If more than three applicants are referred for selection, at least three
            must be interviewed.
        3.4.2. Upon receipt of supervisor’s selection, the Civilian Personnel/Human Resources
        office will:
            3.4.2.1. Initiate appropriate works council coordination (USAFE Form 179,
            Notification of Proposed Personnel Action (Benachrichtigung Über Eine
            Beabsichtigte Personalmassnahmne).
            3.4.2.2. Notify the candidate selected only upon receipt of the works council’s
            concurrence and start the placement/in-hiring process (to include the Local National
            Screening (LNS) procedure).
            3.4.2.3. Notify non-selected applicants by appropriate letter and return application
            documents (except USAFE Form 201 and USAFE Form 10 expeditiously, if possible
            within 4 weeks.
4. Safeguarding Application Documents. To ensure information or referral registers and
qualification records are not disclosed to unauthorized personnel, the following procedures
apply:
USAFEI36-713 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                    5


   4.1. Hand carry or send referral registers and any attachments to selecting officials in sealed
   envelopes and return to the CPF in the same manner. Supervisors and personnel specialists
   must not discuss the contents of these documents with unauthorized personnel.
   4.2. Limit applicant’s/employee’s access to information available to all competitors.
5. Records Maintenance. Civilian Personnel/Human Resources offices will establish and
maintain a folder for each position fill action. Include a copy of the announcement, the
completed referral register, and all documents issued for each candidate referred for
consideration including copies of non-selection letter.




                                            JOSEPH M. MASTRIANNA, Colonel, USAF
                                            Director, Manpower, Personnel, and Services
 6                                                   USAFEI36-713 1 DECEMBER 2011


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Forms Prescribed:
USAFE Form 10, Request for Placement Consideration (Non-US), 1 July 2001
USAFE Form 355, Referral and Selection Register (Non-US), 21 January 2004
Forms Adopted:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
USAFE Form 179, Notification of Proposed Personnel Action (Benachrichtigung Über Eine
Beabsichtigte Personalmassnahmne), 10 July 2006
USAFE Form 201, Application for Employment with the U.S. Air Forces in Germany (Non-US),
1 November 2007
USAFE Form 260, Record of Qualification (Non-US), 15 November 2008
