BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                      INSTRUCTION 51-701
EUROPE
                                                                                 27 JUNE 2011

                                                                                            Law

                                                            NEGOTIATING, CONCLUDING,
                                                          REPORTING AND MAINTAINING
                                                          INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no Releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFE/A8Z                                                        Certified by: USAFE/A8Z
                                                                       (Colonel John L. Parker)
Supersedes:   USAFEI 51-701, 12 April 2005                                            Pages: 21


This is the only USAFE instruction concerning International Agreements and is applicable to all
USAFE staff agencies, commands, units, and activities. It establishes procedures for negotiating,
concluding, reporting and maintaining International Agreements within USAFE’s area of
responsibility. This document delegates the authority to negotiate and conclude certain types of
International Agreements but does not create substantive authority for this purpose. Do not
enter into any binding discussions without first coordinating with USAFE/A8Z. USAFEI
51-701 does not apply to United States Air Force Reserve Command (ARFC) or Air National
Guard (ANG) units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)       Records     Disposition      Schedule      (RDS)      located      at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

This instruction implements AFPD 51-7, International Law. Additionally, this document is in
compliance with policy issued in AFI 51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting and
Maintaining International Agreements, Department of Defense (DoD) Directive 5530.3,
International Agreements, and ED 5-13, International Agreements, Authority and
Responsibilities.
 2                                                                                                USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication has been substantially revised for clarity and must be completely reviewed.
This version clarifies coordinating procedures required for international agreements and changes
Plans and Programs Directorate to Plans, Programs and Analyses Directorate (HQ USAFE
A5/8/9) and HQ USAFE/A5Z to HQ USAFE/A8Z (Bases and Forces).

        1.      Scope. .....................................................................................................................    2
        2.      Definitions and Guidance. .....................................................................................                 2
        3.      Format. ...................................................................................................................     3
        4.      Categories of IAs within USAFE Negotiating Authority. .....................................                                     3
        5.      Agreements Not Normally Considered IAs. ..........................................................                              4
        6.      Advance Payment Terms. ......................................................................................                   4
        7.      Basic Requirements. ..............................................................................................              5
        8.      Responsibilities at USAFE Level. .........................................................................                      5
        9.      Delegation to NAFs. ..............................................................................................              7
        10.     Responsibilities at the NAF and Lower Levels. ....................................................                              7
        11.     Procedures. .............................................................................................................       8

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                                 13

Attachment 2—SAMPLE INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT FORMAT                                                                                             14

Attachment 3—INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT CHECKLIST                                                                                                 17

Attachment 4—REPORTING INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS                                                                                                19

Attachment 5—SAMPLE MEMORANDUM FOR FOREIGN LANGUAGE AGREEMENT                                                                                  21


1. Scope. The USAFE Commander has delegated authority to USAFE A5/8/9 as the OPR for
all international agreements command-wide. All USAFE staff agencies, commands, units, and
activities will comply with this instruction.
2. Definitions and Guidance.
     2.1. International Agreement (IA). An agreement concluded with one or more foreign
     governments (including their agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions) or with an
     international organization which is intended to commit all parties to a given course of action
     and is characterized by those elements that give it recognition as an IA by the community of
     nations (see paragraph 4 for specific categories and examples of IAs). Most agreements
     concluded with a foreign government constitute an IA and are reportable as such. Therefore,
     treat all proposed agreements with foreign governments as IAs, and coordinate through
     USAFE/A8Z prior to any binding discussions.
USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011                                                                       3


   2.2. Concept of Negotiations. USAFE/A8Z may help determine who will negotiate and in
   appropriate cases, may act as the lead negotiator. However, the basic policy for negotiating
   and concluding IAs is one of centralized direction and decentralized execution. Therefore,
   the conduct of negotiations is normally accomplished by the functional/organizational
   elements or agents that are most knowledgeable of matters pertinent to the subject of the
   negotiation. In any case, appropriate functional area representatives will participate fully in
   the negotiating process.
   2.3. Preliminary (Nonbinding) Discussions. Preliminary/exploratory discussions or routine
   meetings where no draft documents are discussed, so long as such discussions are conducted
   with the understanding by all parties that the views communicated do not commit any side
   legally or otherwise. Contact the Foreign Disclosure Office (USAFE/A2A) for releasability
   approval prior to conducting preliminary discussions.
   2.4. Negotiations. A proposal or an offer to a foreign representative for acceptance,
   comment, or counterproposal constitutes negotiation even though the resulting agreement is
   understood to be subject to final staffing or approval of higher authority. Negotiations may
   also include the provision of a draft agreement or other document, the acceptance of which
   would constitute an agreement. Procedural authority is required to negotiate an IA.
   2.5. Procedural Authority. The authority necessary to begin the negotiations according to
   AFI 51-701, ED 5-13, and this instruction. USAFE A5/8/9 will grant procedural authority,
   when appropriate.
   2.6. Substantive Authority. The legal authority necessary to make a commitment or
   obligation. Sources include the United States Constitution, federal statutes, or higher-level
   IAs.
   2.7. Conclusion. The act of signing, initialing, responding, or otherwise indicating the
   acceptance of an IA by the United States. Substantive authority is required to sign an IA.
3. Format. Format, as such, is not normally an important factor; however, it is beneficial to use
a standard format within the command or functional area. As a minimum, all agreements will
contain the information listed in Attachment 2.
4. Categories of IAs within USAFE Negotiating Authority.
   4.1. Technical, operational, working, or similar agreements or arrangements that are
   predominantly Air Force matters, concluded pursuant to a treaty or executive agreement that
   involve implementing arrangements.
   4.2. Arrangements with allied or friendly countries or organizations involving predominantly
   Air Force matters for cooperative or reciprocal operational, logistical, or other military
   support. These include arrangements for the shared use or licensing of military equipment,
   facilities, services, and nonphysical resources.
   4.3. Agreements that involve predominantly Air Force matters related to combined military
   planning, command relationships, military exercises and operations, minor and emergency
   force deployment, or officer exchange programs with air forces of other governments.
   4.4. Agreements involving predominantly Air Force health and medical matters, provided
   such agreements are not implemented through the Security Assistance Program. These
 4                                                                  USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011


     health and medical activities include research, development, data exchange, and related
     licensed production and standardization agreements.
     4.5. When delegated by United States European Command, Logistics Directorate
     (USEUCOM/ECJ4), Mutual Support Agreements (MSA), Acquisition and Cross-Servicing
     Agreements (ACSA) and their sub-tier Implementing Arrangements that allow for the
     execution of transactions under the NATO Mutual Support Act (NMSA), as amended, and
     which are accomplished according to AFI 25-301, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing
     Agreements (ACSA).
     4.6. For purposes of this instruction, an amendment or addition (including appendix, annex,
     etc.) to an IA is itself an IA and must be treated as such.
     4.7. Units may not negotiate or conclude any of the previous types of agreements without
     prior written approval from USAFE A5/8/9. USAFE/A8Z will coordinate and submit
     requests as required to the appropriate higher or lateral organization, as necessary. All
     requests to initiate intelligence agreements will be forwarded to the Director of Intelligence
     (USAFE/A2).
5. Agreements Not Normally Considered IAs.
     5.1. Contracts concluded under authority of United States procurement statutes and the
     Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).
     5.2. Foreign military sales (FMS) cases, leases, and other transactions covered under the
     Arms Export Control Act.
     5.3. NATO Standardization Agreements (STANAG) or other multi- or bilateral agreements
     that merely record the adoption of like or similar military equipment, ammunition, supplies
     and stores, or operational, logistical, and administrative procedures. However, a STANAG
     that provides for mutual support or cross-servicing (MSA or ACSA and their Implementing
     Arrangements) of military equipment, ammunition, supplies and stores, or for mutual
     rendering of defense services, including training, is an IA. ACSA orders or transactions
     pursuant to those agreements are not considered IAs.
     5.4. Arrangements for the acquisition of real estate or installations and facilities according to
     procedures prescribed in existing treaties or agreements, such as accommodation program
     requests.
     5.5. Agreements concluded solely to define administrative procedures (e.g., an agreement
     that simply identifies the appropriate office to contact for a particular matter, specifies
     format, or provides an estimate of processing time).
6. Advance Payment Terms. Advance payments to foreign governments and international
organizations are authorized under Title 10 U.S.C. 2396, Advances for payment for compliance
with foreign laws, rent in foreign countries, tuition, and pay and supplies of armed forces of
friendly foreign countries and advance payments, or Title 10 U.S.C. 2307, Contract financing.
Advance payments are the least desirable method of financing and should be used only to
comply with foreign country's laws and ministerial directives. In those cases where USAFE
A5/8/9 concurs with a proposal to include advance payment terms in an international agreement,
the unit will obtain authorization to include such provisions by requesting, through the Director
of Financial Management and Comptroller (USAFE/FM), approval from Secretary of the Air
USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011                                                                          5


Force, Directorate of Accounting, Policy, and Reporting (SAF/FMPR). The advance payment
request should contain, as a minimum, the following information (NOTE: because circumstances
vary, SAF/FMPB may require additional information).
   6.1. The foreign law or ministerial directive that requires payment in advance.
   6.2. Location and description of project being financed.
   6.3. Cost of the project and amount of advance needed.
   6.4. Name and location of the organization designated as recipient of the advance.
   6.5. Scheduled dates for the advance payments and the start of the project.
   6.6. Detailed description of the payment and recoupment/reconciliation procedures.
   6.7. Provisions of interest, if any, to be accrued from the funds advanced.
   6.8. Name and address of the organization negotiating the advance.
   6.9. Appropriation funding the project.
   6.10. Statement indicating project funding status (that is, fully, partially, or not funded).
7. Basic Requirements.
   7.1. USAFE personnel shall neither negotiate nor conclude an IA (including amendments)
   without specifically obtaining prior written approval from USAFE A5/8/9.
       7.1.1. If negotiation of an IA falls under the purview of a NAF and is written to
       implement authority of the ACSA, the organization sponsoring the agreement must
       ensure the Implementing Arrangement establishes procedures to ensure financial data for
       all logistics support services are reported to Logistics Readiness Division (USAFE/A4R).
   7.2. Likewise, a statement of nonapplicability of AFI 51-701 and ED 5-13 will be obtained
   from USAFE A5/8/9 before negotiation of any agreement with foreign nations that is not
   considered an IA as described in paragraph 4 of this instruction. NOTE: A statement of
   nonapplicability is not required in the case of procurement contracts pursuant to FAR, FMS
   cases, leases under Title 10 U.S.C. 2667, Leases non-excess property of military departments
   and Title 10 U.S.C. 2675, Leases: foreign countries, accommodation program requests, and
   routine orders under an existing NMSA implementing arrangement.
   7.3. USAFE personnel will not negotiate or conclude verbal agreements.
   7.4. USAFE units may not terminate IAs in force without notifying USAFE A5/8/9.
8. Responsibilities at USAFE Level.
   8.1. USAFE A5/8/9 is the OPR for monitoring IAs for the command. Bases and Forces
   Division (A8Z) will:
       8.1.1. Assist in preparing draft agreements and negotiating positions and lead negotiating
       teams, as appropriate.
       8.1.2. Provide advice and assistance; and clarify or forward for higher-level attention,
       questions or problems that cannot be resolved at MAJCOM level.
       8.1.3. Determine IA status of documents submitted to USAFE/A8Z for review.
6                                                               USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011


       8.1.4. Issue clearances to negotiate agreements when negotiations will be conducted by
       other USAFE agencies, or statements of nonapplicability if, after review, a document is
       not considered an IA.
       8.1.5. Issue clearances to conclude agreements to USAFE agencies conducting the
       negotiations.
       8.1.6. Maintain a central repository of all IAs negotiated and concluded by USAFE
       headquarters and subordinate units.
       8.1.7. Maintain to the extent possible, treaties and other government-level agreements, as
       well as USEUCOM, United States Army Europe (USAREUR), and United States Naval
       Forces Europe (USNAVEUR) agreements that relate to or have an effect on USAFE
       operations.
       8.1.8. Maintain a command-wide master index of IAs and provide a copy to USEUCOM
       as required.
       8.1.9. Report all concluded agreements to higher headquarters (Attachment 4).
    8.2. The Staff Judge Advocate (USAFE/JA) will:
       8.2.1. Consult with USAFE/A8Z during the review of documents submitted for
       determination of IA status.
       8.2.2. Determine the legal propriety and sufficiency of agreements.
       8.2.3. Assure agreements conform to international law, obligations of the United States
       and United States law, and other applicable regulations and directives.
       8.2.4. Assist in drafting agreements, and participate, as required, in negotiations as the
       legal representative.
       8.2.5. Prepare and provide legal memoranda for IAs that will be concluded at USAFE
       level. These memoranda will specify the legal authority that authorizes USAFE to enter
       into and carry out the agreement, specifying both the procedural authority and the
       substantive legal authority for each obligation undertaken on behalf of the United States
       under the agreement.
    8.3. Director of Financial Management and Comptroller (USAFE/FM) will:
       8.3.1. Advise and assist in formulating and coordinating agreement provisions which
       pertain to funding, billing, and payment procedures for agreements involving financial
       commitments/ cost-sharing arrangements.
       8.3.2. Provide a fiscal memorandum for all agreements designated in paragraph 4.
       USAFE/FMA or Wing FMA offices will provide the appropriate level of financial review
       for all agreements. The financial review will include an examination of financial
       accounting procedures and budgetary impact. If no funds are expended, a no-cost
       financial review/fiscal memorandum as required will be provided, stating expenditure of
       United States funds is not required.
       8.3.3. Provide an evaluation of the financial review performed by the NAF/base level
       comptroller for agreements designated in paragraph 4 that are originated at the NAF or
       lower level.
USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011                                                                      7


   8.4. Foreign Disclosure Office (USAFE/A2A) will review all agreements (classified and
   unclassified) to determine releasability to foreign nationals.
   8.5. Logistics Readiness Division (USAFE/A4R) will:
      8.5.1. Assist USAFE/A8Z by acting as Office of Coordinating Responsibility (OCR) for
      the drafting, negotiating and concluding of all Implementing Arrangements that are
      written to implement MSAs/ACSAs.
      8.5.2. Comply with all procedures identified in paragraph 11 when developing IAs
      written to implement the NATO Mutual Support Act, as amended.
9. Delegation to NAFs. The authority to negotiate and conclude IAs delegated to the USAFE
Commander is hereby delegated to commanders of NAFs subject to the following conditions:
   9.1. NAFs may negotiate and conclude IAs without expressed delegation of authority from
   USAFE A5/8/9 when the requirement for such an agreement originates at the NAF or lower
   level, unless the agreement falls into one of the following categories (in which case the
   agreement will be forwarded to USAFE/A8Z for review and approval to negotiate and
   conclude):
      9.1.1. Agreements that involve the expenditure of funds above and beyond NAF control.
      9.1.2. Agreements that cross NAF boundaries.
      9.1.3. Agreements that are of a sensitive political nature or involve principles, policies,
      or precedents that have command-wide impact or application.
      9.1.4. ACSA Implementing Arrangements pursuant to cross-servicing agreements
      concluded by USEUCOM. To comply with USEUCOM and Air Force directives,
      USAFE A5/8/9 must obtain approval from USEUCOM to initiate negotiations and must
      coordinate proposed IAs with United States European Command Logistics and Security
      directorate (USEUCOM/ECJ4) prior to concluding each ACSA Implementing
      Arrangement.
          9.1.4.1. When authority to negotiate an ACSA IA is delegated to a NAF or lower
          level, the organization requiring/sponsoring the IA will coordinate assignment of an
          ACSA code number with USEUCOM/ECJ4, provide a copy of the concluded IA to
          USAFE/A4R.
      9.1.5. Agreements which otherwise address issues that must, as required by Air Force or
      USEUCOM directives, be worked at USAFE level.
   9.2. When the requirement for an IA originates at USAFE or higher-level, the NAFs may
   negotiate and conclude such agreements when authority to do so is expressly redelegated to
   the NAF by USAFE A5/8/9. Conversely, when it is deemed there is a significant USAFE
   interest in a particular agreement normally under the purview of the NAF, USAFE may
   request review or retain negotiating/conclusion authority.
10. Responsibilities at the NAF and Lower Levels.
   10.1. The director of plans or equivalent, is the OPR for monitoring international
   negotiations within the NAFs, and is the OPR for this regulation at the NAF level. The base
   level staff judge advocate is the OPR for monitoring international negotiations and is
 8                                                               USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011


     designated OPR for this regulation at that echelon. When appropriate, the NAF director of
     plans will:
        10.1.1. Issue clearances to negotiate and conclude IAs to NAF or lower level OPRs.
        10.1.2. Help draft agreements, lead negotiating teams and provide advice and assistance
        to NAF/ base level agencies on matters pertaining to IAs.
        10.1.3. Maintain a central repository of all IAs negotiated and concluded by the NAF
        headquarters and subordinate units. Maintain to the extent possible, treaties and other
        government-level agreements, as well as other NAF, USAFE, USNAVEUR, USAREUR,
        and USEUCOM agreements that relate to or affect NAF and subordinate unit operations.
        10.1.4. Maintain a NAF index of IAs. USAFE A5/8/9 will include the NAF indexes as
        part of the command-wide master index provided to USEUCOM.
        10.1.5. Maintain background papers, legal memoranda, fiscal memoranda/reviews, and
        negotiating history on all agreements negotiated by the NAF or NAF subordinate
        agencies.
        10.1.6. Report all IAs negotiated and concluded at the NAF or lower level, according to
        Attachment 3.
        10.1.7. Additionally, request a fiscal memorandum from USAFE/FM for those
        agreements.
        10.1.8. If the agreement involves the purchase of material, supplies, services, or support,
        a letter must be forwarded to USAFE/FMA or appropriate NAF/base level comptroller,
        stating funds will be available/included in the budget of the responsible USAFE
        organization under the memorandum of understanding.              The appropriate level
        comptroller will ensure USAF financial obligations are included in the proper execution
        plan.
     10.2. Designated NAF/JA or subordinate (e.g., base level) JAs, as appropriate, will prepare
     an appropriate legal memorandum.
     10.3. NAF will notify USAFE A5/8/9 prior to entering into or granting authority to conduct
     negotiations. NAF will notify USAFE A5/8/9 immediately upon conclusion of the
     agreement and date on which reporting procedures were completed.
11. Procedures.
     11.1. Planning. Proper staffing will ensure agreements contain sufficient detail, including
     procedures to be followed, which will preclude later conflict in interpretation or
     implementation. The agreement process can be, and often is, lengthy and time-consuming.
     Responsible planning leading to the negotiation and conclusion of an agreement should
     include allowing adequate lead time based upon the urgency of the agreement objectives.
     11.2. Coordination. The functional/organizational elements responsible for the subject
     matter of a proposed IA will accomplish the following:
        11.2.1. Before initial contacts with foreign nations or with international commands and
        organizations, organizational elements seeking to negotiate an agreement will consult
USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011                                                                    9


     with USAFE/A8Z or the appropriate NAF director of plans (see Attachment 2 for format
     example).
     11.2.2. If requested, the functional/organizational element responsible for the subject
     matter of a proposed IA will assist in obtaining copies of associated documents. These
     may include any treaties or government-level IAs which the proposed agreement will
     implement; higher-level directives (DoD, Joint Chiefs of Staff, USEUCOM) which the
     proposed agreement will implement or which authorized the commitments proposed to be
     made; or provisions of US law which authorize the commitments proposed in the
     agreement, such as the NATO status of forces agreement, ACSA, etc.
     11.2.3. Conduct preliminary nonbinding discussions with the foreign representative as
     necessary to determine which party will draft the proposed agreement, general issues to
     be included, and scope of proposal.
     11.2.4. Coordinate the draft with all affected staff agencies, higher-level commands, and
     elements as required by this instruction. (Ensure a copy of the background paper, used to
     obtain authority to negotiate, is provided with the draft.) Designate a support base in
     instances where real estate or installations and facilities are required.
     11.2.5. USAFE A5/8/9 will submit requests to Headquarters United States European
     Command Strategy, Policy and Assessments Directorate (USEUCOM/ECJ5/J8) for
     negotiation authority for multi-service agreements.   A draft agreement, legal
     memorandum, and fiscal memorandum will be provided to USAFE/A8Z for inclusion in
     the request.
  11.3. Clearance to conduct Preliminary Discussions. Prior to conducting preliminary
  discussions, contact the Foreign Disclosure Office, USAFE/A2A, for identification of any
  United States military information (classified or unclassified) to be released to foreign
  governments, foreign representatives, or international organizations. USAFE/A2A is the
  command authority for release of any United States information to a foreign government.
  11.4. Clearance to Negotiate. Before initiating negotiations, USAFE A5/8/9 or the NAF
  plans office must ensure the proposed negotiation is appropriate. To obtain clearance to
  negotiate, the Deputy Chief of Staff (DCS) or NAF organization or similar organization
  requiring/sponsoring the IA, will submit a written request to USAFE A5/8/9 or NAF plans
  office, as appropriate. At a minimum, the request will contain:
     11.4.1. A background paper on the proposed agreement. As a minimum the background
     paper will include the following information:
         11.4.1.1. Specify the countries or international organization(s) that are party to the
         agreement.
         11.4.1.2. List all United States and foreign governmental agencies or units or
         international organizations responsible for carrying out the agreement.
         11.4.1.3. Specify the subject of the agreement and summarize the agreement.
         11.4.1.4. Explain why the agreement is being negotiated now and what the effect of
         the agreement is likely to be, including benefits to each party.
         11.4.1.5. Indicate geographic location where the agreement will be signed.
10                                                                 USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011


         11.4.1.6. Identify the full titles and dates of any agreements, if any, upon which this
         agreement is based or amends.
         11.4.1.7. Identify any conditions for entry into force.
         11.4.1.8. Specify the organization responsible for maintaining the negotiating
         history. NOTE: This information is required as part of a letter of transmittal from
         USAFE A5/8/9 or NAF plans office to report the IA to the Department of State.
     11.4.2. A draft agreement. To the extent possible, the draft agreement will adhere to the
     format at Attachment 2. Use the checklist at Attachment 3 in developing and
     standardizing IAs to ensure requirements are fulfilled. Contact the Negotiations Section
     of USAFE/A8Z or the NAF plans office for assistance in developing the agreement.
     11.4.3. A financial review for all agreements and a preliminary fiscal memorandum for
     those agreements (make reference to foreign currency payment provisions if applicable).
     11.4.4. A preliminary legal memorandum. This memorandum will specify the legal
     authority that authorizes USAFE to enter into and carry out the agreement, specifying
     both the procedural authority and the substantive legal authority for each obligation
     undertaken on behalf of the United States under the agreement, and an explanation of
     other relevant legal considerations.
     11.4.5. Identification of any US military information (classified or unclassified) to be
     released to foreign governments, foreign representatives, or international organizations.
     Releasability will be certified by the Foreign Disclosure Office, USAFE/A2A before
     release to any foreign official.
     11.4.6. A statement of environmental impact (see E.O. 12114, 4 Jan 79, Environmental
     Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions and AFI 32-7061, The Environmental Impact
     Analysis Process for guidance) if necessary.            The Director of Civil Engineer
     (USAFE/A7C) will assist in determining requirements for environmental review. If the
     agreement has no environmental impact, the organization sponsoring the agreement will
     state there is no environmental impact in their request to negotiate.
  11.5. Clearance to Conclude the Agreement. The following procedures for concluding an
  agreement are established to ensure that lawful agreements are concluded and reported within
  the strict time limits established in paragraph 11.10. When agreement has been reached, and
  prior to signature of the agreement by either party, the DCS or NAF organization or similar
  organization requiring/sponsoring the IA will accomplish final staffing if necessary, and will
  submit a written request to USAFE/A8Z or NAF plans office, as appropriate, requesting
  authority to conclude. At a minimum, the request will contain:
     11.5.1. Update any information that may have changed to the background paper provided
     prior to negotiating the agreement (paragraph 11.4.1).
     11.5.2. A final agreement.
     11.5.3. A final financial memorandum.
     11.5.4. A final legal memorandum.
     11.5.5. Specify the agency/organization designated OPR for execution and maintenance
     of the agreement throughout its duration.
USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011                                                                      11


     11.5.6. A memorandum stating the foreign language text and the English text conform to
     each other and that both have the same meaning in all substantive respects (see example
     at Attachment 5 and language requirements at paragraph 11.7).
  11.6. Negotiating History. The functional OPR for the IA will retain all correspondence,
  internal working papers, minutes of meetings, etc., in a history file for the duration of the
  agreement, or until they have no further legal significance.
  11.7. Language. Agreements will be concluded in English text only, or contain a provision
  that the English language text is accepted as the governing text of the parties in the event
  there is conflict between English and foreign language texts. If this is not possible and an
  agreement is concluded in both English and a foreign language, a person qualified in that
  language will certify by memorandum (Attachment 5) that the foreign language text and the
  English text conform to each other and that both have the same meaning in all substantive
  respects. The memorandum will be dated and signed by an approved translator who is
  considered qualified by United States DoD/State Department standards in English and the
  applicable foreign language. The memorandum will accompany the request to conclude the
  agreement (paragraph 11.5.6). In this case, wording will be included in the agreement stating
  that the agreement is concluded in both languages and each version is equally authentic.
  11.8. Concluding the Agreement. After authority to conclude the agreement has been
  obtained, the USAFE negotiator will submit the approved final text to the foreign
  representative for agreement or comment/counterproposal. If the agreement is accepted
  without change, signature on behalf of the other party will be requested. If changes result
  from further negotiations after conclusion authority is granted, they must be approved by
  USAFE/A8Z or NAF plans office, as appropriate, prior to signature. During negotiating
  sessions, the USAFE negotiator may agree in principle to changes in the draft agreement
  provided it is made clear to the other party that agreement is conditional upon final staff
  approval.
  11.9. Signature. The United States signature will be the last signature affixed to the
  agreement as United States reporting time requirements begin with date of the last signature.
  If the agreement must be signed last by a foreign representative, the organization responsible
  for the agreement will request approval from USAFE A5/8/9 or the NAF plans office;
  explaining the requirements for the foreign representative to sign the agreement last and how
  they will ensure the reporting time requirements in paragraph 11.10 are met.
  11.10. Reporting the Agreement. The USAFE representative responsible for concluding an
  agreement will deliver the original agreement (in both languages if applicable), the final legal
  memorandum, the final financial memorandum, and eight certified copies of the agreement
  (in both languages if applicable) to USAFE/A8Z or appropriate NAF plans office within 3
  working days after the last signature (Attachment 3, paragraph A3.4). The copies will be
  certified by the negotiating/concluding or other appropriate authority who will certify the
  copies with their signature on the last page of each copy, under the following statement:
  "Certified to be a true and complete copy of the original." All copies must be legible.
  USAFE/A8Z or appropriate NAF plans office will accomplish a letter of transmittal
  (Attachment 4) and ensure the agreement is reported in time to arrive at the Office of the
  Assistant Legal Advisor for Treaty Affairs, Department of State, not more than 20 calendar
  days after the last signature. To ensure this strict time requirement is met, the agreement
12                                                             USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011


  must be mailed no later than 15 days after the last signature. NOTE: Prompt reporting is
  critical. If an agreement is reported late, the Executive Office must explain to Congress why
  it is late. If an agreement is reported more than 15 days after the last signature, the
  transmittal document will fully and completely describe and justify the reasons for the late
  transmittal.
  11.11. Amendment of Agreements. Amendments or additions to an existing agreement must
  follow the same procedures as those for establishing new agreements.
  11.12. Termination of Agreements. To avoid doubt as to whether and when an agreement is
  terminated, include specific provisions in the agreement on terminating the agreement.
  When an agreement is terminated prior to an established termination date in the agreement,
  the organization responsible for terminating the agreement must report the termination to
  USAFE/A8Z or the NAF plans office. If the termination must be negotiated, the provisions
  of paragraph 7.1 apply. When a new agreement replaces an existing agreement, the new
  agreement will contain a statement to the effect that the old agreement is terminated. Include
  this information in the letter of transmittal.




                                           MARK O. SCHISSLER, Brigadier General, USAF
                                           Director of Plans, Programs and Analyses
USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011                                                                      13


                                         Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Title 1 United States Code, Section 112b, United States international agreements; transmission
to Congress
Title 10 United States Code, Section 2304 (c) (4), Contracts: competition and requirements
Title 10 United States Code, Section 2307, Contract financing
Title 10 United States Code, Section 2396, Advances for payments for compliance with foreign
laws, rent in foreign countries, tuition, public utility services, and pay and supplies of armed
forces of friendly foreign countries
Title 10 United States Code, Section 2667, Leases: non-excess property of military departments
and Defense Agencies
Title 10 United States Code, Section 2675, Leases: foreign countries
E.O. 12114, Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions
DoDD 2010.9, Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreements
DoDD 5230.11, Disclosure of Classified Military Information to Foreign Governments and
International Organizations
DoDD 5530.3, International Agreements
DoDI 7000.14, DoD Financial Management Policy and Procedures
ED 5-13, International Agreements; Authority and Responsibilities
AFI 25-301, Acquisition and Cross-servicing Agreements (ACSA), 5 May 2011
AFI 32-7061, The Environmental Impact Analysis Process, 12 Mar 2003
AFPD 51-7, International Law, 5 Feb 2009
AFI 51-701, Negotiating, Concluding, Reporting, and Maintaining International Agreements, 6
May 1994
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation For Change Of Publication, 22 Sep 2009
 14                                                                USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011


                                           Attachment 2
                   SAMPLE INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT FORMAT

A2.1. The following example (with sample clauses) provides guidance for the format of an
IA. The sample clauses are guidelines and may be adapted to meet individual functional
requirements.
                                           TITLE PAGE

                                           (Arrangement)

                                              Between

                   (Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE))

                                                 and

                                            (Other Party)

                                            Concerning

                                        (Title of Agreement)

                                              Article I

                                              Purpose

This agreement establishes the terms and conditions for (describe purpose of agreement) between
the (list full name of parties), henceforth referred to as "the parties."

                                              Article II

                                             Authority

The Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe (COMUSAFE), represented by (name
applicable office), and (title of other party) pursuant to (cite applicable legal authority, e.g., The
North Atlantic Treaty of April 4, 1949, NATO Status of Forces Agreement of 19 June 1951, etc.)
enter into this agreement.

                                             Article III

                                           Responsibility

The parties agree to abide by the following terms and conditions; (list terms and conditions for
both parties). Be specific about time, quantity, and methods of performance. (For NATO
Mutual Support Act arrangements see AF1 25-301.)
USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011                                                                            15



                                              Article IV

                                      Financial Responsibilities

Either:

Neither party shall incur any financial obligations as a result of this agreement.

Or:

Financial obligations will accrue to (list applicable party) upon (list all acts, dates, or other
conditions necessary to give rise to financial obligation, e.g., completion of performance as
signified by presentation of appropriate documentation). The financial obligation of (party) will
be satisfied by payment to (list name, address, and phone number of applicable agency) in
(specify currency) within (specify time period) of receipt of (specify documentation). The
parties agree to the following method of pricing:

(Specify method of pricing, e.g., price lists.)

(List other applicable financial conditions and remedies, i.e., foreign currency payment
provisions.) An Anti-Deficiency act clause according to national laws/appropriation procedures
is suggested for all agreements (e.g., All financial obligations assumed by the participants are
conditioned upon authorization and appropriation of funds in accordance with applicable
national laws).

                                              Article V

                                       Settlement of Disputes

Disputes will be resolved by negotiations between the parties at the lowest level possible.
Disputes that cannot be resolved at lower levels will be referred to higher-levels within their
governments (or organizations, as appropriate) for resolution. Disputes will not be referred to
arbitration, litigation, or other resolution by a third party. Inconsistencies between the present
agreement and other existing agreements will be resolved through consultation between the
parties.

                                              Article VI

                                     Modification of Agreement

This agreement may be amended or supplemented at any time upon mutual consent of both
parties. Amendments and supplements must be in writing and will include full title and date of
conclusion of the agreement being amended.
 16                                                                USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011


                                            Article VII

                               Inception, Duration, and Termination

This agreement will become effective upon the date of the last signature. It will remain in effect
for (e.g., 5 years).

This agreement may be terminated immediately if both parties consent in writing to immediate
termination or by either party giving (e.g., 6, 9, 12) months written notice to the other party.
This agreement may be extended upon mutual written consent of the parties.

This agreement is done in (number) original copies; (number) in the English language (and
number in the foreign language, if applicable). In the event of conflict, the English text is the
governing text (or, each text is equally authentic).

FOR THE UNITED STATES                                 FOR (LIST AGENCY AND NATION)
AIR FORCES IN EUROPE

Signed by: (Typed Name/Title/ Signed by: (Typed Name/Title/ Office Symbol) Office Symbol)
at: (Location) at: (Location) on: (Day/Month/Year) on: (Day/Month/Year) Annex A

                                             Definitions
                       (List definitions of appropriate terms and acronyms).

                                       Annex B Instructions
                 (Include detailed instructions not included in basic agreement.)

                            Annex C Form or forms (specify by name)
                                    (Attach relevant forms)
USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011                                                                      17


                                         Attachment 3
                     INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT CHECKLIST

A3.1. Phase 1—Prenegotiation.
   A3.1.1. Define the objective, and determine requirements to attain the objective.
   A3.1.2. Determine releasability to foreign nationals of classified and unclassified data with
   USAFE/A2A.
   A3.1.3. Conduct preliminary nonbinding discussions with counterparts and determine who
   will draft the proposed agreement, issues to be covered, and scope of the agreement
   (paragraph 11.2.3).
   A3.1.4. Prepare a background paper on the proposed agreement (paragraph 11.4.1).
   A3.1.5. Prepare a draft agreement (paragraph 11.4.2).
   A3.1.6. Request a financial review and a preliminary fiscal memorandum for those
   agreements. (paragraph 11.4.3).
   A3.1.7. Request preliminary legal memorandum from the appropriate JA office (paragraph
   11.4.4)
   A3.1.8. Determine environmental impact of any action that will result from implementing
   the agreement (paragraph 11.4.6).
   A3.1.9. Request authority to negotiate from USAFE/A8Z or NAF plans office (paragraph
   11.4).
A3.2. Phase 2—Negotiation.
   A3.2.1. Provide a copy of the draft agreement (retaining all other documents, e.g.,
   background papers, legal memorandum, financial review) to your foreign nation counterpart
   for their approval.
   A3.2.2. Negotiated for final agreement.
   A3.2.3. Coordinate any changes/revisions to the agreement with appropriate USAFE or NAF
   agency.
A3.3. Phase 3—Agreement.
   A3.3.1. Ensure English is the governing language (so stated in the text) if the agreement is to
   be signed in two or more languages. If this is not possible, have the foreign language text of
   the agreement compared to the English language text and attach a language certification
   statement (paragraph 11.7 and Attachment 5).
   A3.3.2. Once the agreement is acceptable to all parties, request authority to conclude from
   USAFE/A8Z or NAF plans office (paragraph 11.5).
   A3.3.3. After receiving authority to conclude, have the other party sign two originals, in both
   languages as applicable, and return them to USAFE or NAF for countersignature.
   A3.3.4. Return one original (for each language if applicable) of the signed agreement to the
   other party. Retain one signed original (in each language if applicable) for the US. This
 18                                                        USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011


   original agreement will be provided to USAFE/A8Z or NAF plans office during Phase 4
   Reporting.
A3.4. Phase 4—Reporting.
   A3.4.1. Deliver the original agreement and eight certified copies of the agreement to
   USAFE/A8Z or NAF plans office within 3 days after the last signature (paragraph 11.10).
   A3.4.2. USAFE/A8Z or NAF plans office will report the agreement according to Attachment
   4.
USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011                                                                          19


                                          Attachment 4
                    REPORTING INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS

A4.1. Reporting. All IAs concluded by USAFE will be reported by either USAFE/A8Z or if
negotiated at the NAF level, by the appropriate NAF office. The agreement must arrive at the
Office of the Assistant Legal Advisor for Treaty Affairs, Department of State, not later than 20
calendar days after signature of the agreement. The letter of transmittal will be prepared in the
following format:

Table A4.1. Addresses.
Department of State                               Original letter of transmittal and 2 certified
Attn: Assistant Legal Advisor                     copies of the agreement.
Treaty Affairs
Washington D.C. 20520
DoD General Counsel                               1 copy of the letter of transmittal and 2
1600 Defense Pentagon                             certified copies of the agreement
Washington D.C. 20301-1600
Office of the General Counsel                     1 copy of the letter of transmittal and 1
Secretary of the Air Force                        certified copy of the agreement.
1740 Air Force Pentagon
Washington D.C. 20330-1740
International and Operations Law Division         1 copy of the letter of transmittal and 1
Office of The Judge Advocate General              certified copy of the agreement.
1420 Air Force Pentagon
Washington D.C. 20330-1420
HQ USEUCOM/ECJA                                   1 copy of the letter of transmittal and 1
Unit 30400                                        certified copy of the agreement.
APO AE 09131
HQ USEUCOM/ECJ5                                   1 copy of the letter of transmittal only.
Unit 30400
APO AE 09131
(For NAFs):                                       1 copy of the letter of transmittal and original
USAFE/A8Z                                         agreement (in each language).
Unit 3050 Box 145
APO AE 09094-0145
(For USAFE/A8Z):                                  1 copy of the letter of transmittal and 1
To applicable NAF plans office                    certified copy of the agreement
A4.2. Letter of Transmittal. The letter of transmittal will include the following:
   A4.2.1. Identifies type of agreement: bilateral or multilateral.
   A4.2.2. Specifies the countries or international organization(s) that are party to the
   agreement.
   A4.2.3. Lists all US and foreign governmental agencies or units or international
   organizations responsible for carrying out the agreement.
20                                                               USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011


  A4.2.4. Specifies the full title and security classification of the agreement.
  A4.2.5. Specifies the subject of the agreement and summarizes the agreement.
  A4.2.6. Explains why the agreement was concluded now and what the effect of the
  agreement is likely to be, including benefits to each party.
  A4.2.7. Indicates geographic location where the agreement was signed.
  A4.2.8. Specifies the legal authority that authorized the DoD to enter into and carry out the
  agreement (specifying both the procedural authority under this regulation and the substantive
  legal authority for each obligation undertaken on behalf of the United States under the
  agreement).
  A4.2.9. States the date of entry into force.
  A4.2.10. States the date of termination.
  A4.2.11. Prints the names of all signing officials, their titles and the offices they represent,
  and their countries or international organization.
  A4.2.12. States the full titles and dates of any agreements, if any, upon which this agreement
  is based or amends.
  A4.2.13. States the date of signature of this agreement.
  A4.2.14. States any conditions for entry into force.
  A4.2.15. Specifies the organizational element responsible for maintaining the negotiating
  history.
USAFEI51-701 27 JUNE 2011                                                                         21


                                           Attachment 5
        SAMPLE MEMORANDUM FOR FOREIGN LANGUAGE AGREEMENT

A5.1. Memorandum. To be attached to translation of foreign language Test of Agreement.
Date

I certify that the (foreign language) text and the English language text of the (title of agreement)
are in conformity with each other and that both texts have the same meaning in all substantive
respects.

Signed, (Title)
