BY ORDER OF THE                                                                  HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                                                   ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 51-601

                                                                                                          5 DECEMBER 2013

                                                                                                                                  Law

                                                                USAF ACADEMY MANAGEMENT AND USE
                                                                                   OF GIFT FUNDS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/CMA                                                                         Certified by: HQ USAFA/CMA
                                                                                                         (Mr. Brian Binn)
Supersedes:   USAFAI51-601,                                                                                     Pages: 19
              5 January 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-6, Civil Law for
Organizational Activities. This instruction implements United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA) policy for the management and use of gift funds and it applies to all USAFA agencies.
USAFA accepts gift funds under the authority of 10 USC 2601, General Gift Funds; AFI 51-601
and AFI 51-601_USAFASUP, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force; and AFI 34-201, Use of
Non-Appropriated Funds. This instruction does not authorize the solicitation of gifts by Air
Force (AF) personnel. This instruction applies to all United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA) personnel. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
units and the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and conflicts between
this and other publications to Development and Alumni Affairs Division (HQ USAFA/CMA),
2304 Cadet Drive, Suite 3200, USAF Academy CO 80840, on Air Force (AF) Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.

       1.     Acceptance Authority. ...........................................................................................     2
       2.     Process for Gift Fund Need/Opportunity Identification. .......................................                        2
 2                                                                                  USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013


        3.      Gift Fund Management. .........................................................................................             4
        4.      Process for Obtaining Approval, Obligating, and Expending Gift Funds. ............                                          5
        5.      Stewardship. ...........................................................................................................    8
        6.      Guidance for Using Gift Funds. .............................................................................                8

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                             12

Attachment 2—GIFT OPPORTUNITIES LIST FORMAT                                                                                                15

Attachment 3—SAMPLE OFFER OF GIFT                                                                                                          16

Attachment 4—CONSIDERATIONS FOR AUTHORIZING MPALS AT EVENTS WITH
             CADETS                                                                                                                        17

Attachment 5—GIFT OPPORTUNITIES LIST PROCESS                                                                                               19


1. Acceptance Authority.
     1.1. Gifts to the Air Force. AFI 51-601 and USAFA Supplement, Gifts to the Department of
     the Air Force, establish procedures for receiving, accepting, and processing gifts offered to
     the AF and USAFA.
     1.2. Gifts to the Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentalities (NAFI). AFI 34-201, Use of Non-
     Appropriated Funds, contains the authority to accept gifts to NAFIs. Procedures for the
     acceptance and use of gifts to USAFA NAFIs (10th Force Support Squadron (FSS)) are
     contained in AFI 34-201 and the USAFA Supplement thereto and not this instruction.
     1.3. USAFA Gifts and Memorials Board. Gifts conditioned on memorialization require
     review and approval in accordance with guidance specified in AFI 36-3108, Memorialization
     Program and Ceremonies, USAFAI 36-3102, USAF Academy Gifts and Memorial Board,
     and USAFAI 16-501, Strategic Planning and Programming.
     1.4. Obligation Authority. 10 USC 2601 authorizes the Secretary of the Air Force to accept,
     hold, administer and spend any gift, devise, or bequest of real property made on the condition
     that the gift be used for the benefit, or in connection with the establishment, operation or
     maintenance, of any organization within the AF. This authority has been implemented by the
     referenced AF instructions along with this instruction. This obligation authority extends to
     the Federal fiscal and contract law authorities necessary to obligate the funds as Gift Funds.
     The obligation of Gift Funds accepted by the USAFA or other proper authority for the use
     and benefit of the USAFA are set forth in this instruction.
     1.5. Contracting Authority. Gift funds, for recurring services, are considered government
     funds. Thus, although these funds have not been appropriated by congress, appropriated fund
     procedures IAW the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) is the applicable guidance for
     these contracting actions ( gift funds follow AFI 34-301 and AFM 64-302 contracting
     actions). Organizations should consult with USAFA/FM and the 10th Contracting Squadron.
     Follow the guidance in paragraph 4.3., Coordination of Gift Fund Expenditures, for all other
     gift fund requirements.
2. Process for Gift Fund Need/Opportunity Identification.
USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  3


  2.1. Gift Opportunities List.
     2.1.1. Development and Alumni Programs (HQ USAFA/CMA) will request inputs to the
     Gift Opportunities List from Mission Elements (ME) [Commandant of Cadets (CW),
     Dean of the Faculty (DF), Department of Athletics (AD), 10th Air Base Wing (10 ABW),
     Preparatory School (PL)], and the Director of Staff (DS) in November for the following
     academic year. The 306th Flying Training Group (306 FTG) may submit opportunities
     through the Commandant of Cadets (CW) who will be responsible for accountability of
     CW gifts (e.g., equipment and supplies). The above organizations, through their
     Resource Advisors (RA), will request inputs from subordinate organizations, validate
     those inputs, and submit them to HQ USAFA/CMA. Submissions from the Director of
     Staff (DS) organizations [primarily Public Affairs (PA), Admissions (RR), Chaplain
     (HC), Protocol (DSP), and Diversity Office (CDO)] should be routed through DS and
     Vice Superintendent (CV) for approval prior to submission to CMA. Format for
     submission is in Attachment 2. HQ USAFA/CMA will then have them reviewed by HQ
     USAFA/JA and HQ USAFA/FM and then return them to the MEs and DS for
     prioritization.
         2.1.1.1. Inputs should, for the most part, be for “margin-of-excellence”
         programs/projects such as, but not limited to, cadet functions, official TDYs,
         conference/symposium support, equipment, guest speaker honoraria, cadet clubs
         support, recruiting materials, character and leadership development programs, etc.,
         but cannot be for anything that violates AF instructions or the Joint Ethics Regulation
         (JER) (e.g., personal gifts).
         2.1.1.1.1. Margin of Excellence programs are nominally defined as those programs
         which substantially enhance the cadet experience and contribute to their academic,
         athletic, military character and leadership, spiritual, and social growth.
         2.1.1.2. There may be programs/projects that would fall into “mission,” but would be
         so low on the mission fund priorities, they would likely not receive funding.
         Submissions of this type should be limited, but are not precluded.
         2.1.1.3. Each input requires a budget or breakdown of the estimated funding level,
         how the money will be spent, the timeline it will be required, the benefit to cadets,
         and whether it is considered “margin of excellence” or “mission” (Appropriated
         Funds (APF)).
     2.1.2. Following prioritization of inputs from the MEs and DS, HQ USAFA/CMA will
     meet with the HQ USAFA/CV Working Group to develop the Academy’s top 30
     priorities. The process will then continue in accordance with the Gift Opportunities List
     Process flow chart as depicted in Attachment 5.
     2.1.3. Upon approval by the USAFA Senior Steering Group (SSG)/HQ USAFA/CC,
     HQ USAFA/CMA will forward the coordinated Gift Opportunities List to organizations
     who have requested the list and the MEs and DS. The private organizations may use this
     list to designate programs they wish to support through gift funds. If USAFA receives a
     notification of intent to support a program through future gifts, HQ USAFA/CMA will
     notify the appropriate RA and organization that they may benefit from these future gifts
     so they can consider these potential gift funds in their strategic plans.
 4                                                         USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013


     2.2. Out-of-Cycle Gift Needs/Opportunities (not identified on the Gift Opportunities List).
     Needs that were not identified during the annual process can be submitted to HQ
     USAFA/CMA at any time throughout the year in the same format and process as a
     submission processed IAW Para 2.1.1. This will ensure the MEs or DS are advised that by
     approving an out-of-cycle request, additional funds may become available or funds already
     allocated to one of their programs could be re-directed. It also ensures that HQ USAFA/JA
     and HQ USAFA/FM have determined that the request is valid and legal and provides
     required documentation.
     2.3. Gift Offers for Items or Programs Not Identified on the Gift Opportunities List.
        2.3.1. If HQ USAFA/CMA receives an Offer of Gift (Attachment 3) restricted for a
        specific organization, but not restricted for a specific program within that organization,
        the gift may be applied toward something already approved on the Gift Opportunities List
        for that organization. For example, if an unrestricted gift is offered to a specific faculty
        department, that gift could be applied to something the department had previously
        submitted on the Gift Opportunities List. The organization may also elect to submit an
        out-of-cycle request rather than apply the gift toward something already approved on the
        Gift Opportunities List. If the organization has not submitted an input to the Gift
        Opportunities List or if all identified needs have been funded, HQ USAFA/CMA will
        ask the organization for an out-of-cycle request, approved by the ME or DS and
        coordinated on by HQ USAFA/JA, HQ USAFA/FM, and HQ USAFA/CMA.
     2.4. Academic Chairs. Gift offers of funds for Academic Chairs will be forwarded to the
     Secretary of the Air Force/General Council (SAF/GC) for approval in accordance with AFI
     51-601, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force.
     2.5. Gratuitous-Volunteer Service Agreements (GSA) DD Form 2793 – Volunteer
     Agreement. Personal services offered pursuant to a GSA, under circumstances where a third
     party is paying the volunteer, must be forwarded through MEs to HQ USAFA/CMA for
     processing to SAF/GC.
3. Gift Fund Management.
     3.1. Gift Fund Accounts. HQ USAFA/FM will establish and monitor Gift Fund accounts to
     track the use of Gift Funds. Under the circumstance identified in paragraph 6.1.1., Gift
     Funds may be co-mingled with Official Representation Funds (ORF) with prior approval
     from the Secretary of the Air Force Administrative Assistant (SAF/AA).
        3.1.1. A gift account will be established for all conditional and unconditional gifts to
        ensure the funds are used for the purpose intended by the donor.
        3.1.2. HQ USAFA/FM and HQ USAFA/ will monitor the use of gift funds to ensure
        adequate funds are available to cover Gift Fund obligations/requests.
     3.2. Review Process. HQ USAFA/CMA will receive an Offer of Gift for support of a
     designated program from a donor organization or individual donor and prepare an acceptance
     package coordinated through HQ USAFA/JA, with copies to the ME or DS and organization
     benefiting from the offer. The package will consist of an Air Force Form 1768, Staff
     Summary Sheet, acceptance letter to the donor for signature by the appropriate acceptance
     authority, the Offer of Gift, instructions to obtain approval of expenditures prior to
USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  5


   obligation, instructions on providing information regarding how the donation was used, and a
   HQ USAFA/CV guidance on appropriate stewardship. A check may be considered a gift
   offer if there is a notation in the “for” line designating which program it supports.
      3.2.1. Accepted Gift Funds. If accepted, HQ USAFA/CMA will deposit the check to the
      General Gift Fund account maintained by the Defense Finance and Accounting Service
      (DFAS) using a DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher. HQ USAFA/FM will track
      the funds in the Gift Fund accounts described in Paragraph 3.1. above.
      3.2.2. Custodial Accounts. A check received without an Offer of Gift being previously
      accepted will be deposited into a Suspense Account maintained by the DFAS for
      custodial purposes.
   3.3. Notice of Availability of Gift Funds. HQ USAFA/CMA will notify the organization
   that submitted the input to the Gift Opportunities List when the gift funds are available.
   Organizations are then authorized to submit funding approval requests for items identified in
   the Gift Opportunities List. The organization may then access the money IAW paragraph 4.
   below.
   3.4. Processing Excess Gift Funds. In the event an entire restricted gift cannot be spent for
   the purpose it was intended, HQ USAFA/CMA will contact the funding organization/donor
   to determine if an alternate use for an item on the Gift Opportunities List is acceptable. If
   there is not an appropriate alternate use, the gift may be returned to the funding
   organization/donor. If the donor is deceased, HQ USAFA/JA will determine if the remainder
   of the gift may be used for a different purpose.
4. Process for Obtaining Approval, Obligating, and Expending Gift Funds.
   4.1. Authorized Purpose. The Gift Opportunities List identifies programs that are in need of
   financial support from monies that are donated to USAFA. Gift funds may only be used for
   authorized expenses. Expenses for purposes inconsistent with Department of Defense
   (DoD)/AF regulations including the JER will not be approved. In order to be certain the
   expenditure is authorized, organizations must submit a Staff Summary Sheet (SSS) through
   HQ USAFA/JA, HQ USAFA/FM, and HQ USAFA/CMA to their ME and/or HQ
   USAFA/CC/CV, as required, for approval (DS organizations will submit the SSS to the HQ
   USAFA/CV, through JA, FM, CMA, and the DS). The SSS will include all pertinent
   information concerning the requested expenditure.
      4.1.1. Unauthorized Obligations and/or Expenditures. Approval of expenditures and
      notice of availability of funds must be received before any funds are obligated or
      committed. Organizations that receive approval should take caution when committing
      funds or making expenditures. Committing funds without authorization can result in
      individual pecuniary liability. An example of committing funds without authorization is
      personally signing an agreement with a hotel to provide food and services for a
      symposium without prior approval.
      4.1.2. Unrestricted Funds for USAFA Organizations. Occasionally, a donor or donor
      organization will offer a gift of unrestricted funds to the MEs or DS organization. The
      intent of these unrestricted funds is to allow MEs or DS organizations to support official
      events not eligible for ORF or Non-Appropriated Fund (NAF) funding and
      unprogrammed requests that could not be determined when the Gift Opportunities List is
6                                                         USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013


       published. Paragraph 6.3. provides examples of “authorized” and “unauthorized” uses of
       these funds.
    4.2. Use of Government Purchase Card (GPC) to Obligate Gift Funds. HQ USAFA/CC’s
    Enlisted Aides are authorized to use a Gift Fund Government Purchase Card (GPC) for
    official events held only at the Carlton House. Purchases may be made up to the approved
    Single Purchase Limit (SPL). The items authorized are limited to the following: food, non-
    alcoholic beverages, plastic ware, paper ware, linens, candles, and flowers.           HQ
    USAFA/CMA – Development Specialist (Gifts and Memorials) is the Approving Official
    (AO) who will be responsible for approval of all purchases made with the Gift Fund GPC.
    The AO will coordinate with HQ USAFA/JA before authorizing such purchases. No
    purchases may be made without the prior coordination of HQ USAFA/CMA, AO and HQ
    USAFA/JA.
    4.3. Coordination of Gift Fund Expenditures.
       4.3.1. For an event. If funds are to be spent on an event to which guests are invited (e.g.,
       conference, symposium, award recognition, etc.), the SSS should include the purpose and
       date of the event, break-down of costs, and a guest list. If, after consultation with HQ
       USAFA/FM and the 10th Contracting Squadron IAW paragraph 1.5. above, it is
       determined a contract needs to be negotiated, the requesting organization should notify
       their Resource Advisor and forward the package to the 10th Contracting Squadron for
       assistance. For events not conducted under a negotiated contract, invoices/receipts along
       with a copy of the approved SSS should be submitted to HQ USAFA/CMA for payment
       following the event.
       4.3.2. For academic excellence and character development services. Examples include
       Oral History, Scholarship of Teaching and Learning, Just-in-Time Teaching, Digital
       Library and Social Decorum. The requesting organization should notify their RA and
       forward a purchase request (PR) package to the 10th Contracting Squadron via the
       Automated Business Service System (ABSS). The ABSS flow should include manpower
       approval verifying the requirement does not circumvent established hiring processes.
       Contracts will be awarded in accordance with the FAR subject to competition
       requirements on the type of goods and services purchased using appropriated funds.
       4.3.3. For other purposes. For approval to obligate gift funds for other purposes
       identified in the Gift Opportunities List (i.e., travel, honoraria, mementos, equipment,
       books, etc.), submit a SSS to verify appropriateness of expenditure and availability of
       funds to HQ USAFA/JA, HQ USAFA/FM, and HQ USAFA/CMA for coordination and
       to the ME for approval. DS organizations should include DS for coordination and CV as
       the approving authority. Mission Elements may approve honoraria paid with gift funds up
       to $2,000 per individual (excludes other travel expenses). All other honoraria paid with
       gift funds must be submitted for HQ USAFA/JA and HQ USAFA/CMA for review, and
       for HQ USAFA/CV approval.
           4.3.3.1. Only the CC, CV, and MEs or their designees may approve the use of gift
           funds. Any delegations by CC, CV, and MEs must be in writing and a copy provided
           to HQ USAFA/CMA and HQ USAFA/JA.
    4.4. Accountability Procedures. HQ USAFA/CMA will:
USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                7


     4.4.1. Track payments and TDY expenses on the Commander’s Resource Integration
     System (CRIS) site.
     4.4.2. Periodically run a report from the DFAS website to verify payments are posted to
     the correct gift accounts.
        4.4.2.1. In the event the wrong gift account is charged for a payment by DFAS, HQ
        USAFA/CMA will submit a Journal Voucher to HQ USAFA/FMA for processing.
        Reports will be reviewed 7-10 days following to ensure the correction has been made.
     4.4.3. Provide account status to gift recipients on a quarterly basis.
  4.5. Processes for Obligating Gift Funds and Paying for Approved Expenditures for Goods
  and Services.
     4.5.1. Payments to Vendors. Organizations may submit requests to HQ USAFA/CMA to
     pay vendors directly for goods and services. The organization will use the following
     process:
        4.5.1.1. Obtain an invoice from the vendor/supplier. Ensure the vendor/supplier is
        registered on the System for Award Management at https://www.sam.gov and that
        the registration has not expired.
        4.5.1.2. Prepare a SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchases and Services Other Than
        Personal, attach the invoice, and submit to HQ USAFA/CMA electronically. If the
        invoice cannot be sent electronically, a hard copy of the SF 1034 and invoice must be
        sent to HQ USAFA/CMA.
            4.5.1.2.1. HQ     USAFA/CMA         will   submit    a     Miscellaneous
            Obligation/Requirement Document (MORD) in the Automated Business Services
            System (ABSS) that must be certified by         HQ USAFA/FM and then
            obligated by DFAS.
            4.5.1.2.2. After the MORD is obligated, HQ USAFA/CMA will submit the SF
            1034 to       HQ USAFA/FM for submission to DFAS.
            4.5.1.2.3. The entire process can take 4-6 weeks.
     4.5.2. Reimbursement. An organization will first confirm the appropriateness of the
     expenditure with HQ USAFA/CMA and HQ USAFA/JA, and then pay for the item(s).
     Organizations should also ensure any expenditures that may require contracting action
     are coordinated with the 10th Contracting Squadron.
        4.5.2.1. Prepare and submit to HQ USAFA/CMA a SF 1164, Claim for
        Reimbursement for Expenditures on Official Business, attaching the paid
        invoice/receipts and guest list (if applicable).
     4.5.3. Travel Orders. Travel Orders will be accomplished using the Defense Travel
     System (DTS).
        4.5.3.1. Organizations must contact HQ USAFA/CMA so that funds can be loaded to
        the correct line of accounting prior to creating the orders in DTS. Organizations will
        create an approval routing list in DTS that includes HQ USAFA/CMA coordination
        when Gift Funds are being used.
 8                                                          USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013


5. Stewardship.
     5.1. The organization receiving the benefit of the gift will, upon notification that they have
     received the gift, send a thank you letter to the donor, providing a copy to HQ USAFA/CMA
     for file within 30 days. If appropriate, the organization shall invite the donor and spouse to
     participate or observe the program made possible or enriched by the gift.
     5.2. After the gift has been used, the organization receiving the benefit of the gift will
     provide a gift worksheet to HQ USAFA/CMA regarding how the donation benefited USAFA
     and the Cadet Wing.
6. Guidance for Using Gift Funds. Gift funds are to be used for the benefit of the Academy,
subject to the terms of the gift, devise, or bequest. They are not to be used for any purpose: (a)
that is extremely dangerous or in poor taste, (b) that calls into question the business relationship
between the AF and the donor, or (c) when the use of gift funds for a particular purpose would
not be in the best interest of the USAFA or the AF. Determining what is in the best interest of
the USAFA is a discretionary matter, and the exercise of that discretion should include
consideration of public perception and legislative or regulatory intent against certain
expenditures.
     6.1. Regulation Prohibitions.
        6.1.1. Gift funds cannot be combined with Official Representation Funds (ORF) to fund
        the full cost of an ORF event without prior approval of SAF/AA. (see paragraph 8.1.4,
        AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds – Guidance and Procedures). If gift funds are
        deposited in an APF or NAF account, the rules applicable to those respective funds will
        apply to the gift funds deposited.
        6.1.2. When using conditional Gift Funds, the funds must be spent in accordance with
        the conditions set by the donor. However, gifts of money accepted by the USAFA are
        government funds, and a donor cannot authorize an impermissible use of these funds
        (AFI 51-601).
        6.1.3. A government employee may not spend government funds with the primary
        purpose of gaining personal benefit for themselves, their family, or friends (JER).
        6.1.4. A government employee should avoid any action that creates even the appearance
        of legal or ethical violations (JER).
     6.2. Discretionary Considerations. Prior to spending Gift Funds, an organization should
     consider the following factors:
        6.2.1. Is the purpose of the expenditure official in nature?
        6.2.2. If an individual benefits from the expenditure of funds, is that individual's
        participation in the event required?
        6.2.3. Would the general public perceive that the amount of the expenditure and/or the
        per capita benefit wasteful or extravagant?
        6.2.4. Are there specific limitations on spending other government funds for the
        proposed purpose?
        6.2.5. Does the expenditure create an appearance of misuse of position?
USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                   9


     6.2.6. Is the individual approving the use of gift funds the primary beneficiary?
     6.2.7. Funds shall not be spent to directly benefit spouses and family members if their
     participation is voluntary and not required.
  6.3. Appropriate/Inappropriate Uses.
     6.3.1. Appropriate Uses.
         6.3.1.1. The donor may designate the purpose; however, all discretionary
         considerations will be taken into account (i.e., donor intent does not make an
         inappropriate expenditure appropriate).
         6.3.1.2. Projects or programs detailed on the Gift Opportunities List (i.e., Academic
         Excellence, Character Development, Athletic Development, Institutional
         Advancement, Heritage, Admissions and Military Training Programs).
            6.3.1.2.1. Proposed expenditures must be coordinated on by HQ USAFA/CMA
            and HQ USAFA/JA, and approved by the ME commander.
         6.3.1.3. USAFA events that are not eligible for appropriated or non-appropriated
         funding (e.g., graduation social activities, Parents’ Weekend activities, cadet or donor
         recognition events, events held in conjunction with sports, etc.).
         6.3.1.4. Support for visitors to USAFA who are not eligible for appropriated or non-
         appropriated funding (e.g., donors, parents, distinguished graduates, etc.).
         6.3.1.5. USAFA personnel invited as co-hosts must be designated in writing by the
         MP commander hosting the event. DoD spouses may be included in the official party
         at such events when (a) a spouse/spouses of authorized guests are invited and
         expected to attend and the authorized host determines that attendance of DoD spouses
         is appropriate and desirable under the circumstances, or (b) when cadets will be
         present and the ME commander determines that it is appropriate for spouses to attend
         consistent with the guidance found in Attachment 4. Ratio of co-hosts to guests
         should be taken into consideration by the ME commander. Exceptions must be
         coordinated through the appropriate ME commander, HQ USAFA/CMA, HQ
         USAFA/JA and approved by the HQ USAFA/CC or designee.
         6.3.1.6. Cadet attendance at official functions (this does not usually include
         organizational/squadron dining-outs or dining-ins or events that cadets attend
         voluntarily).
         6.3.1.7. HQ USAFA/CC or the ME commander will make the decision considering
         the criteria in Attachment 4 if meals for senior staff, and possibly spouses, in the
         developmental and mentoring situations with cadets is appropriate. If deemed
         appropriate the per-person of meals using gift funds may not exceed $20.00.
         Exception must be coordinated through the appropriate ME commander, HQ
         USAFA/JA, HQ USAFA/CMA and approved by the HQ USAFA/CC or designee.
         6.3.1.8. HQ USAFA/CC or the ME commander will make the decision considering
         the criteria in Attachment 4 if alcoholic beverages for receptions/meals in conjunction
         with developmental and mentoring situations with cadets is appropriate. This
         includes events hosted at the Carlton House, the Otis House, and the Heritage House.
10                                                       USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013


        If appropriate, beverages purchased with gift funds are limited to non-alcoholic
        beverages, beer, and wine. The per-person cost for beverages using gift funds may
        not exceed $5.00. Exceptions must be coordinated through the appropriate ME
        commander, HQ USAFA/JA, HQ USAFA/CMA and approved by the HQ
        USAFA/CC or designee.
        6.3.1.9. An organizational off-site meeting may be considered an official function,
        and gift funds may be used to secure the venue. However, gift funds are not generally
        appropriate to pay for meals for those attending. The planning organization should
        consult with HQ USAFA/JA prior to commitment of funds.
        6.3.1.10. Light refreshments at workshops, conferences and symposia.
        6.3.1.11. Mementos for official visitors.
            6.3.1.11.1. Mementos cannot be presented to staff members and must be limited
            to under $20 for any active duty member or DoD employee.
            6.3.1.11.2. Mementos (including coins) purchased with gift funds must be
            controlled prior to presentation. Accountability logs for mementos presented
            should include recipient’s name, reason for presentation, date, and presentation
            location.
        6.3.1.12. Honoraria and travel for visiting speakers. MEs may approve honoraria
        paid with gift funds up to $2,000 per individual (excludes any other travel costs). All
        other honoraria paid with gift funds must be submitted to HQ USAFA/JA, HQ
        USAFA/CMA, and HQ USAFA/CV for approval.
        6.3.1.13. Travel for official business or cadet club activities.
        6.3.1.14. Purchase of equipment or accountable property that increases the
        productivity or effectiveness of an organization or morale of a squadron.
            6.3.1.14.1. Equipment or property purchased for either APFs or NAFs must be
            coordinated with the organizational custodians for accountability purposes to
            preclude possible audit write-ups and origin of acquisition issues.
            6.3.1.14.2. Once transferred to the APF or NAF organization, the equipment or
            property becomes the sole responsibility of the receiving organization.
        6.3.1.15. Floral arrangements in observance of a deceased individual who has made a
        significant contribution to USAFA as determined by HQ USAFA/CC.
        6.3.1.16. Other purposes deemed appropriate by a ME upon coordination by
        USAFA/JA.
     6.3.2. Inappropriate Uses.
        6.3.2.1. Purposes outside the parameters of the gift offer.
        6.3.2.2. Expenses that do not specifically support an official event.
            6.3.2.2.1. Miscellaneous expenses charged to hotel rooms by guests of USAFA;
            e.g., telephone calls, movie rentals, sundries.
        6.3.2.3. Organizational or squadron dining-in, dining-out or picnics.
USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                               11


       6.3.2.4. Meals or refreshments for an organizational or department function unless it
       is an officially sanctioned awards recognition ceremony.
       6.3.2.5. Expenses for social events intended primarily for the entertainment or benefit
       of DoD officials and employees, their families, or personal guests.
       6.3.2.6. Meals for spouses or family members who are attending an official event
       voluntarily and not in an official capacity. Consideration should be made consistent
       with the guidance found in Attachment 4 and in Paragraph 6.3.2.1. of this instruction.
       Exceptions to this policy must be coordinated through the appropriate ME
       commander, HQ USAFA/JA, HQ USAFA/CMA and approved by the HQ
       USAFA/CC or designee.
       6.3.2.7. Expenses for the cost of meals and refreshments for DoD employees in
       connection with routine working meetings (e.g., staff meetings, hot washes, faculty
       orientations, etc.).
       6.3.2.8. Expenses for the cost of meals or lodging for DoD employees on TDY
       status. (Note: In certain cases, gift funds may be used for travel expenses).
       6.3.2.9. Mementos, farewell, or retirement gifts to members of USAFA staff.
       6.3.2.10. Expenses incurred which do not take all discretionary considerations into
       account.
       6.3.2.11. Gift funds should not be used to support fundraising for private
       organizations, i.e., AOG, Falcon Foundation, etc.




                                         DAVID K. CANNON, GS-15, USAF
                                         Director of Strategic Communications
 12                                                    USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
10 USC 2601, General Gift Funds, 13 October 2013
AFI 34-201, Use of Non-Appropriated Funds, 17 June 2002
AFI 36-3108, Memorialization Process and Ceremonies, 31 Aug 2011
AFI 36-3501, Air Force Academy Operations, 28 April 2008
AFI 51-601, General Gift Funds, 26 November 2003
USAFAI 51-601_USAFASUP, Gifts to the Department of the Air Force, 21 February 2008
AFI 65-603, Official Representation Funds – Guidance and Procedures, 24 August 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management and Records, 1 March 2008
AFMD 12, United States Air Force Academy, 17 December 2007
AFPD 51-6, Civil Law for Organizational Activities, 18 October 1993
USAFAI 16-501, Strategic Planning and Programming, 10 November 2011
USAFAI 36-3102, USAF Academy Gifts and Memorial Board, 18 June 2008
Adopted Forms
DD Form 2793, Volunteer Agreement
AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet
AF Form 4009, Government Purchase Card Fund Cite Authorization
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher
SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchase of Services and other than Personal
SF 1164, Claim for Reimbursement for Expenditures on Official Business

Abbreviations and Acronyms
10 ABW—10th Air Base Wing
306 FTG—306th Flying Training Group
ABSS—Automated Business Service System
AD—Athletic Director
AFAAA—Air Force Academy Athletic Association
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013                             13


AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—Approving Official
APF—Appropriated Fund
CC—Commander/Superintendent
CDO—Chief Diversity Officer
CM—Director of Strategic Communications
CMA—Chief, Development and Alumni Programs
CV—Vice Superintendent
CW—Commandant of Cadets
DF—Dean of Faculty
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DS—Director of Staff
DSP—Protocol
DoD—Department of Defense
DTS—Defense Travel System
FAR—Federal Acquisition Regulations
FM—Directorate of Finance
FMA—Directorate of Finance Accounting Liaison Division
FSS—Force Support Squadron
GPC—Government Purchase Card
GSA—Government Services Administration
HQ—Headquarters
JA—Judge Advocate
JER—Joint Ethics Regulations
MIT—Monitoring and Implementation Team
MORD—Miscellaneous Obligation/Requirement Document
MP—Mission Element
NAF—Non-Appropriated Fund
NAFI—Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality
 14                                                  USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013


ORF—Organizational Representation Fund
PA—Public Affairs
PL—Preparatory School
PR—Purchase Request
RA—Resource Advisor
RR—Directorate of Admissions
SAF/AA—Secretary of the Air Force/Administrative Assistant
SAF/GC—Secretary of the Air Force/General Counsel
SSG—Strategic Steering Group
TDY—Temporary Duty
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                        15


                                           Attachment 2
                           GIFT OPPORTUNITIES LIST FORMAT

                        AYxx/xx GIFT OPPORTUNITIES SUBMITTAL

                                         ANNUAL NEED


                                                                      Priority # (DF-#, CW-#, AD-#)
                                                         Gift Account: (2-letter Gift Account or New)


TITLE: Title of program or project

PILLAR(S) SUPPORTED: List all that apply: Military Training, Academic Excellence, Athletic
Development, Character Development, Institutional Advancement and Support

DESCRIPTION OF NEED/PROJECT: Provide a complete description of the need or project. This will
enable a potential donor to make an informed decision concerning funding.

MARGIN OF EXCELLENCE: _________                MISSION: ___________

CADET BENEFIT: State the overall benefits to be realized by cadets/graduates/USAFA if the need is
met. Include approximate numbers where applicable.

POINT OF CONTACT: List the name, office symbol, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the program/project.

TOTAL AMOUNT OF MONEY NEEDED: Total dollar figure of the request. Include maintenance and
any potential hidden costs.

ESTIMATED BREAKDOWN OF TOTAL AMOUNT: Break out each cost associated with the program
or project separately. Be specific. Simply listing “Travel, honoraria and other costs” is too vague.

ACCEPTABILITY OF PARTIAL FUNDING: Indicate whether an amount smaller than the total would
be acceptable. If there is a minimum acceptable amount, indicate that amount.

ONE-TIMP OR RECURRING NEED: State whether the requirement is needed only once or on a
recurring basis. NOTE: Funding in one year does not imply continual funding for that need—each need
must be evaluated on an annual basis.

CURRENT STATUS: State whether this is a new need, an enhancement, or a continuation of an existing
need. Additionally, identify if a particular donor has supported this need in the past.

DATE OF NEED: Provide the month/year when the gift will be needed. If timing is not critical put “As
soon as funds are available.”
 16                                                        USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013


                                           Attachment 3
                                  SAMPLE OFFER OF GIFT

OFFER OF GIFT
KNOW ALL MPN BY THESE PRESENTS:

That I,____________________, the owner of the property listed below, do hereby voluntarily
give, transfer, convey and assign said property, free and clear of all encumbrances, to the
Secretary of the Air Force, acting on behalf of the United States of America, to have and to hold
the same forever, relinquishing for myself, my executors, administrators, heirs and assigns all
ownership, rights, title, interest and possession therein to the donee absolutely:

Description of Property:




The herein described gift and transfer of said property does not entail the granting by the donee
of special concessions or privileges to me or my executors, administrators, heirs and assigns.

The herein described gift and transfer of said property is made for the benefit of, or use in,
connection with the establishment, operation, or maintenance of the United States Air Force
Academy or other institution or organization under jurisdiction of the Department of the Air
Force, in conformance with 10 U.S.C. 2601.




<Signature>_______________________________


<Dated>___________________




                                      Witness: _____________________________
                                      <Signature>
USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013                                                                  17


                                         Attachment 4
   CONSIDERATIONS FOR AUTHORIZING MPALS AT EVENTS WITH CADETS

A4.1. The Department of Defense’s gift fund statute (10 USC 2601) provides that the Secretary
of the Air Force may spend any gift accepted, on the condition that the gift is used for the
benefit, or in connection with, the establishment, operation, or maintenance of an Air Force
institution or organization. As such, gifts accepted by USAFA can be spent for the benefit of, or
in connection with, the operation or maintenance of USAFA. The Superintendent is responsible
for preparing future officers in all respects to lead a widely diverse military force operating
globally, strengthening their foundation for leadership, professionalism and the Airman’s
perspective necessary for operational success. (AF Mission Directive 12, United States Air
Force Academy) The Superintendent is also responsible for developing and mentoring cadets,
and for ensuring the entire staff has that same focus and objective (AFI 36-3501, Air Force
Academy Operations).
A4.2. The Superintendent may determine that spending gift funds to purchase meals for senior
staff, and possibly their spouses, is necessary to further USAFA’s purpose of effectively
developing and mentoring cadets in various official and social situations and that the USAFA’s
functions could not be accomplished as satisfactorily or as effectively from the government’s
standpoint without spending these funds. It is reasonable to believe that cadets may be more
comfortable talking to senior leadership and other adults whom they do not know or with whom
they have little in common in these less formal social settings. Developing that skill set is an
important part of officer development, since these are social scenarios common in the active-duty
Air Force. It is likewise common at these events for senior leadership’s spouses to be present,
along with the spouses or “significant others” of military personnel attending.
A4.3. Food is normally considered a personal expense for military personnel. However, there
are times when appropriated funds are authorized to purchase food for military personnel. AFI
65-603, Official Representation Funds – Guidance and Procedures, discusses uses and
constraints on appropriated “official representation funds,” which includes authorizing the
payment of meals and refreshments for the hosting official, senior members of their staff and
spouses in certain circumstances. While the purposes for this exception are likely varied, one
reasonable purpose would be to ensure that those senior officials who have a heavy
representational role do not get monetarily penalized based on the significant number of official
functions they are required to attend. The “representational meals” served to these senior
officials often greatly exceed what they would spend if they were dining in their own homes in
the vast majority of instances. This same rationale could be applied to justify the purchase of
meals for USAFA’s senior leaders and their spouses, who attend many dozens (if not hundreds)
of functions with cadets and others, solely in an official developmental or mentoring role.
Donors likely contemplate this type of social interaction between senior officials and cadets.
A4.4. The Government Accountability Office guidance indicates that the criteria for
discretionary expenditures from gift funds is that they must be necessary (not just desirable) to
further an official purpose of the agency and that the agency’s functions could not have been
accomplished as satisfactorily or as effectively from the government’s standpoint without the
expenditure. The Superintendent, and those senior leaders he designates, is responsible for
making the decision as to whether an expenditure of USAFA’s gift funds is necessary to further
an official USAFA purpose, and whether USAFA’s functions could not have been accomplished
 18                                                     USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013


as satisfactorily or as effectively from the government’s standpoint without the expenditure of
those gift funds. These decisions would include whether gift funds should be spent on meals for
senior personnel, and possibly their spouses, and whether spouses should attend events with
cadets.
USAFAI51-601 5 DECEMBER 2013                        19


                               Attachment 5
                  GIFT OPPORTUNITIES LIST PROCESS
