BY ORDER OF THE                                          HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
SUPERINTENDENT                                                            INSTRUCTION 36-2016
                                                                                       12 DECEMBER 2007

                                                                                                    Personnel

                                                                        THE CADET ESCORT PROGRAM



                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: USAFA/CWTS                                            Certified by: USAFA/CWT (Col Robert Huber)
Supersedes USAFAI36-179, 17 July 2002                                                       Pages: 5

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military
Personnel, and prescribes procedures for USAF Academy or outside agencies to request the use of cadets
as escorts. It establishes the source of authority for determining the specific use of cadets as escorts, eligi-
bility requirements, and limitations on requests for cadet escorts. Agencies requesting cadet escorts will
comply with the authorizations, precedence, eligibility requirements, and procedures contained in this
instruction. This instruction does not apply to individual cadets requesting permission to conduct escort
duties for personal reasons in the cadet area on USAFA. Approval authority for individual cadets to con-
duct personal escort duties in the cadet area on USAFA belongs to the respective cadet squadron Air
Officer Commanding (AOC). This instruction was established by consolidating previous guidance in
USAFAI 36-2014, Allocation of Cadet Time, Commandant's Policy letter, dated 2 Jan 02, and USAFA
Scheduling Committee policies. This instruction applies to all United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA) personnel. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance
with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims,amc.af.mil. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This publication has been renumbered from USAFAI 36-179 to USAFAI 36-2016 to align with the AFPD
being implemented. This instruction states that requests for Scheduling Committee action are accom-
plished electronically in the Cadet Administrative/Management Information System (CAMIS) (para.
1.5.). States USAFA agencies requesting by-name cadet escorts and panel members must provide names
to the Cadet Scheduling Office at least 3 weeks before the event (para. 1.6.1.), and that the requesting
agencies must meet the minimum 3 week approval requirement identified in para. 1.5. (para. 1.7.3.). A bar
( | ) indicates revisions from the previous edition.
2                                                                USAFAI36-2016 12 DECEMBER 2007


1. Use of Cadets as Escorts for Visiting Groups and Individuals:
    1.1. Requesting Cadet Escorts. Any USAF Academy agency or any outside agency may request
    cadets to act as escorts for visiting groups and dignitaries if these visitors and groups provide a direct
    benefit to the cadet wing. For example, requests for Board of Visitors, Congressional Staffer visits,
    Educator visits, and Admissions Liaison Officer training will normally be approved.
    1.2. Approving Cadet Escorts. The USAFA Scheduling Committee screens all agency requests for
    cadet escorts during the academic year and will grant approval for those deemed appropriate. The
    standard ratio will be one cadet escort for every three visitors (1:3). Agencies submitting requests for
    cadet escorts are encouraged to use a higher ratio whenever possible. The Committee may make
    exceptions to this policy if extenuating circumstances occur. Direct requests or tasking for cadet
    escorts made to cadets, AOCs, or Group secretaries will not be honored. In addition, the USAFA
    Scheduling Committee will not approve escorts for holidays, final exam or summer periods.
    1.3. Filling Requests for Cadet Escorts. USAFA/CWTSA, Non-academic scheduling (333-2586)
    processes completed cadet escort requests in CAMIS during the academic year. The Cadet Scheduling
    Office (333-0336) works with USAFA/CWTSA and the cadet wing throughout the academic year to
    assign cadet escorts in support requirements identified in submitted CAMIS requests.
    1.4. Escort Approval Outside of Academic Semesters. Requests for escorts made during the sum-
    mer and transition periods are not placed in CAMIS. Agencies making requests for escorts during
    these timeframes will make direct contact with the Cadet Scheduling Office to coordinate the request.
    If the request is supportable with respect to cadet availability and cadet mission requirements/opera-
    tions, the Cadet Scheduling Office will contact the Cadet Wing Commander or the Summer Program
    Commander, as appropriate, to match escort requests with volunteers.
    1.5. Escort Requirements. During the academic year, as soon as a requirement is known, requesting
    agencies enter the request into CAMIS Cadet Excusal System (CES) for appropriate notification to
    the Cadet Scheduling Office through USAFA/CWTSA. In order to ensure the requested numbers of
    potential volunteers are contacted, the request for cadet escorts must arrive at USAFA/CWTSA a min-
    imum of 3 weeks prior to the date the escorts are needed.
       1.5.1. Requesting agencies must specify the cadet escort type required (by-name or volunteer),
       and number of cadet escorts desired. The Cadet Scheduling Office will support requests for cadet
       escorts by attempting to meet all requirements outlined in every request. Ultimately, however,
       requesting agencies must accept the final number of cadet escorts assigned. Second requests for
       additional cadet escorts will not normally be honored.
       1.5.2. If a requesting agency does not have access to CAMIS, the agency should contact USAFA/
       CWTSA for further guidance.
    1.6. Requesting Agency Responsibilities. Agencies requesting by-name cadet escorts or panel
    members for Educator visits, Congressional Staffer visits, and Admissions Liaison Officer training,
    etc. should identify cadets by name, squadron, and class in CAMIS. These requests must be submitted
    to USAFA/CWTSA in CAMIS at least 3 weeks before the event. This lead-time is necessary in order
    to notify cadets of escort requirements and ensure availability. If the by-name request for cadet escorts
    exceeds 20 names, contact USAFA/CWTSA directly (prior to entering the request in CAMIS) to
    coordinate submitting the request.
    1.7. Cadet Scheduling Office Responsibilities.
USAFAI36-2016 12 DECEMBER 2007                                                                           3


       1.7.1. Brief the escort program and procedures to the Cadet Executive Officers at the beginning of
       each semester.
       1.7.2. Once a request is approved by the Scheduling Committee, the Cadet Scheduling Office
       contacts the four Cadet Group Executive Officers and provides written instructions for each
       requested escort duty. These instructions contain the number of cadets needed, times and dates,
       locations, special instructions, uniforms, etc.
       1.7.3. The Cadet Scheduling Office will furnish requesting agencies cadet escort names not later
       than 2 days prior to scheduled duty providing the requesting agency met the 3-week minimum
       approval requirement specified in paragraph 1.5. A list of cadet names will be forwarded only
       when requested by the requesting agency.
   1.8. Cadet Group Executive Officer Responsibilities.
       1.8.1. Cadet Group Executive Officers are responsible for administering the escort program
       through the cadet wing. If circumstances warrant, they may designate an alternate to act as the
       Escort Cadet in Charge (CIC).
       1.8.2. Cadet Group Executive Officers or Escort CICs are responsible for meeting suspenses set
       by the Cadet Scheduling Office.
       1.8.3. Cadet Group Executive Officers or Escort CICs will ensure that escort duty notifications
       and associated instructions are passed on to designated squadron personnel. Working through the
       cadet chain of command, squadron personnel will request volunteers for escort duty and/or vali-
       date availability of cadets when by-name requests have been made.
       1.8.4. Squadron personnel will notify Cadet Group Executive Officers or Escort CICs of cadets
       agreeing to perform escort duty and availability of requested by-name cadets. Cadet Group Exec-
       utive Officers or Escort CICs will forward above information within suspense date to the Cadet
       Scheduling Office.
   1.9. Ineligible/Excused Escorts.
       1.9.1. On season intercollegiate athletes are not permitted to escort.
       1.9.2. The USAFA Scheduling Committee may impose additional constraints or provide excep-
       tions to current escort policies depending on the nature of the request.
   1.10. Cadet Escort Attendance Procedures.
       1.10.1. Unless otherwise directed by the cadet scheduling office, the standard uniform for escort
       duty is service dress, service cap and white gloves.
NOTE: Black gloves may be worn during winter months or as cold weather conditions require.
       1.10.2. Cadets may not miss scheduled classes or training to perform escort duty.
       1.10.3. Cadet escorts will adhere to instructions provided by the Cadet Scheduling Office that per-
       tain to cadet responsibilities while performing escort duties. Examples include, but are not limited
       to, reporting time, reporting location, and any additional specific duties/responsibilities required
       of cadets assigned to perform escort duties.
       1.10.4. Cadet escorts must request permission from their instructors before bringing visitors to
       class.
4                                                             USAFAI36-2016 12 DECEMBER 2007


       1.10.5. Cadet Escort duty becomes mandatory for a cadet when the Cadet Group Executive
       Officer/Escort CIC submits a cadet’s name to the Cadet Scheduling Office. Cadet Group Execu-
       tive Officers/Escort CICs must forward requests for excusal from cadet escort duty to the Cadet
       Scheduling Office NLT 48 hours prior to the scheduled escort duty. Cadet Group Executive Offic-
       ers/Escort CICs are responsible for ensuring the validity of requested excusal from cadet escort
       duty when forwarding escort’s name, assigned duty, and reason for excusal to the Cadet Schedul-
       ing Office.

2. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
    2.1. Prescribed Forms. No forms are prescribed by this instruction.
    2.2. Adopted Forms. AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication and USAFA Form
    17 (Electronic Only), Request for Scheduling Committee Action.



                                              SUSAN Y. DESJARDINS, Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Commandant of Cadets
USAFAI36-2016 12 DECEMBER 2007                                   5


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-20, Accession of Air Force Military Personnel
USAFAI 36-2014, Allocation of Cadet Time

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
CAMIS—Cadet Administrative Management Information System
CES—Cadet Excusal System
CIC—Cadet In Charge
LOS—Limited on Season
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
