BY ORDER OF THE                                             HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                             ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3508

                                                                                 7 APRIL 2005
                                                 Incorporating Through Change 2, 31 MAY 2011
                                                               Certified Current, 13 April 2012
                                                                                     Personnel

                                                  CADET ACCOUNTABILITY SYSTEM (CAS)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/DFRC                                                 Certified by: HQ USAFA/DFR
                                                                             (Dr. Dean H. Wilson)
Supersedes:    USAFAI36-185, 3 May 2001                                                   Pages: 6


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, and establishes the Cadet Accountability System (CAS). It outlines cadet, instructor,
and air officer commanding (AOC) responsibilities when a cadet is absent from or late to class.
It applies to all USAFA personnel who support the CAS. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard (ANG). Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of
references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change updates the opening paragraph. It also updates the office title from
Academic Scheduling to Academic Scheduling and Customer Services. The final update
rescinds USAFA Form 163 and includes a new report in Q2i with the same title. A margin bar
(|) indicates revisions from the previous edition.
1. General. The CAS is used to record cadet absences from or lateness to class. It is a
management tool upon which to base disciplinary action for unauthorized or excessive absences
or lateness. The CAS is the joint responsibility of the cadet, the instructor, and the AOC. Cadets
are not authorized to miss a class unless they have special permission according to USAFAI 36-
 2                                                             USAFAI36-3508 7 APRIL 2005


180, Allocation of Cadet Time. Cadets must attend the appointment or duty of highest
precedence and notify all other agencies or officials (as soon as they know a conflict does exist)
that they will be absent from the lower priority appointment or duty.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. The Cadet:
        2.1.1. Must be present for duty (class) unless excused by a proper authority. Obtains
        permission (or coordinates, e.g., emergency leave) to miss any class before the class
        meets.
        2.1.2. Notifies the affected Dean of Faculty (HQ USAFA/DF), Athletic Department
        (HQ USAFA/AD), instructor, the academic advisor, and the AOC or Academy Military
        Trainer (AMT) stating the reason for the absence prior to missing class. This is to be
        accomplished both verbally and via email. In extenuating circumstances only will the
        verbal notification be waived.
        2.1.3. Must account for absence as soon as possible in rare cases when pre-coordination
        is not possible. Provides specific reasons (not CAS codes) for the absence before
        readmission to class in accordance with USAFAI 36-180.
     2.2. The Instructor:
        2.2.1. Is the “on-site commander” and is responsible for cadets during scheduled classes.
        Will determine if an absence or lateness is “excused” or “unexcused” based upon the
        cadet’s stated reason. Under no circumstances will instructors accept an excusal reason
        category code (Attachment 2) as the stated reason.
        2.2.2. If an absence or lateness is determined to be “unexcused,” notify AOCs/MTLs via
        email or phone to discuss the unexcused absences and (or) lateness and communicate
        with AOCs/MTLs any other cadet performance issues. May also assign an “academic
        penalty” for unexcused absences in accordance with academic department’s policies.
        2.2.3. Records all absences and lateness on the Instructor Worksheet with the appropriate
        reason code (Attachment 2). This report can be found on the web computer program
        known as Q2. The instructor ensures that all CAS codes are transferred to the CAS
        database maintained by the Registrar’s Information Services Division (HQ
        USAFA/DFRI). Every five lessons, the instructors are reminded of this tasking via
        email.
        2.2.4. Must report the use of “other” excusals to their department head or a designated
        representative.
        2.2.5. After a cadet misses three consecutive classes, checks with the Registrar’s
        Academic Scheduling and Customer Service (HQ USAFA/DFRR) to determine the
        cadet’s status. If the cadet is enrolled, then the instructor tells the AOC/AMT of the
        prolonged absences.
        2.2.6. Requires the cadet to explain his or her absence or lateness before readmission to
        class if acceptable email was not received.
USAFAI36-3508 7 APRIL 2005                                                                  3


     2.2.7. Disposes of all Instructor Worksheets in accordance with the Air Force Records
     Disposition              Schedule             (RDS)              located           at
     https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
  2.3. Each Department Head and Athletic Programs (HQ USAFA/ADP):
     2.3.1. Ensures course attendance records are disposed of according to the Air Force
     Records         Disposition         Schedule        (RDS)          located       at
     https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
     2.3.2. Designates a department CAS monitor as a point of contact with the Registrar
     (HQ USAFA/DFRI).
     2.3.3. Ensures CAS data is submitted in accordance with schedules and procedures
     published by HQ USAFA/DFRI.
     2.3.4. Designates a representative to serve as the approving authority for the use of CAS
     codes “O” and “OL,” and ensure their use is not abused.
  2.4. Information Services (HQ USAFA/DFRI):
     2.4.1. Maintains the database of cadet attendance from department inputs.
     2.4.2. Upon request, provides attendance information to the Commandant of Cadets,
     (CW/CC), Commander, Training Group (CWT/CC); the Dean of the Faculty
     (HQ USAFA/DF); the Director of Athletics (HQ USAFA/AD); Department Heads;
     AOCs; or designated representatives.
     2.4.3. Distributes the computer software and required data files on course enrollment to
     all departments for their use in maintaining cadet attendance information.
     2.4.4. Distributes CAS report to AOCs/AMTs showing squadron totals by cadet (for the
     academic year), semester totals, totals report for each five lessons, and all unexcused
     absences and lateness by class and date for each occurrence. Resolves any discrepancies
     with instructors and AOCs/AMTs
     2.4.5. Provides the Instructor Worksheet to instructors at the start of each semester and
     when requested.
     2.4.6. Provides an annual audit due in June of each year reflecting number of CAS
     absences and the number of CAS-related honor cases displayed in a 5-year trend analysis.
     34th Training Wing Center for Character Development Honor Division
     (34 TRW/CWCH) will provide to HQ USAFA/DFRI an audit of all CAS-related honor
     cases for the past academic year NLT end of May each year.
  2.5. Commander, 10th Communications Squadron (10 CS/CC). The 10 CS/CC provides
  systems analysis and programming support to revise and maintain the programs necessary for
  an automated CAS involving the Cadet Administrative Management Information System
  (CAMIS).
  2.6. AOCs/AMTs:
     2.6.1. Review all emails for absences and (or) lateness and ensure punishments are
     awarded and served where applicable. Ensure processing and (or) closure is
     accomplished within 5 duty days (Class A/B hits), as prescribed by 34TRGOI 51-201,
 4                                                             USAFAI36-3508 7 APRIL 2005


        Cadet Counseling, Discipline, and Rehabilitation. File copies of all non-routine email
        messages until the beginning of the next academic year.
        2.6.2. Resolve discrepancies with the instructor before deviating from the standard
        disciplinary actions outlined in 34TRGOI 51-201. Request individual CAS audits from
        HQ USAFA/DFR when necessary.
        2.6.3. Determine if punishments are necessary for repeated CAS violations in accordance
        with 34TRGOI 51-201
        2.6.4. Document all corrective action even if the disciplinary action differs from
        34TRGOI 51-201, through mutual agreement of instructor and AOC.
        2.6.5. Review all HQ USAFA/DFRI reports summarizing unexcused absences and (or)
        lateness. Annotate the punishment awarded, initial the report, and return to the Group
        AOC by the suspense date. Group AOCs will maintain the completed reports for one
        semester.
        2.6.6. Do not have the authority to excuse cadets from classes. However, an AOC/AMT
        may allow a sick cadet to remain in bed until scheduled appointment time (reference
        AFCWMAN 36-3501, The Cadet Sight Picture).
3. Information Collections, Records, and Forms or Information Management Tools
(IMT).
     3.1. Information Collections. No information collections are created by this publication.
     3.2. Records. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
     publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
     Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
     Disposition             Schedule             (RDS)            located             at
     https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
     3.3. Forms or IMTs (Adopted and Prescribed).
        3.3.1. Adopted Forms or IMTs:        AF IMT 847, Recommendation for Change of
        Publication.
        3.3.2. Prescribed Forms or IMTs: No forms are prescribed.




                                             DANA H. BORN, Brig Gen, USAF
                                             Dean of the Faculty
USAFAI36-3508 7 APRIL 2005                                                                   5


                                        Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AOC—Air Officer Commanding
CAS— Cadet Accountability System
AMT—Academy Military Trainer

Terms
Absent—Cadets are absent when they arrive more than 15 minutes after a class or lab is
scheduled to begin or when they depart a class or lab before being dismissed by the instructor.
Excused— Cadets are excused from class when a higher priority appointment conflicts with a
scheduled class (according to the order of precedence established in USAFA 36-180), or when
Scheduling Committee action pre-approves the absence.
Late—Cadets are considered late when they arrive after, but within 15 minutes of, the class
beginning.
6                                                         USAFAI36-3508 7 APRIL 2005


                                     Attachment 2
                                 CAS REASON CODES

O    Other - For exceptional situations only such as sudden illness, personal problems that
     preclude class attendance, and circumstances beyond a cadet’s control.

OL   Other Late.

TD   Temporary Duty - Any trip. Must have Scheduling Committee Action (SCA).

TDL Temporary Duty Late.

MD Medical or Dental Appointment - Medical or dental appointments made for the cadet.
   Sick call. For AH excusals, cadet must present an AFCW Form 18, Cadet Injury/Illness
   Report.

MDL Medical or Dental Appointment Late.

HP   Higher Priority Duty - Includes the order of precedence outlined in USAFAI 36-180 and
     SCA-approved absences.

HPL Higher Priority Duty Late.

UA   Unexcused Absence.

UL   Unexcused Late.
