BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDERS                                                 USAFEI 51-709(I), AER 550-34,
USAFE/ USAREUR/ NAVCEUR                                                     COMUSNAVCEURI5840-12E
                                                                                        29 JANUARY 2007
                                                                            Certified Current 9 March 2011
                                                                                                       Law

                                                          REGULATION ON PERSONAL PROPERTY,
                                                        LOCAL CURRENCY, AND MOTOR VEHICELS
                                                               FOR U.S. PERSONNEL IN NORWAY

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/ JAI                                                             Certified by: HQ USAFE/JAI
                                                                                   (Mr. Randy L. Harshman)
Supersedes USAFEI51-709, 18 November 2003                                                         Pages: 7

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 51-7, International Law. This instruction
establishes guidelines and prohibitions concerning the acquisition and disposition of duty-free personal
property, the acquisition and possession of tobacco and alcoholic beverages and the import and export of
currency. It outlines requirements concerning the importation and registration of privately owned weap-
ons and the importation, registration, and inspection of privately owned vehicles (POV) and licensing of
drivers. The instruction provides a basis for punitive action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice
(UCMJ) for military personnel or a basis for administrative sanctions for military and civilian personnel
including but not limited to possible restrictions on or revocation of privileges. This instruction applies to
United States Air Force Europe (USAFE), Army, Navy, and Marine Corps units and civilian personnel
and their dependents in Norway except those assigned or attached to diplomatic and consular offices and
Security Assistance Organizations (SAO), who are governed by appropriate embassy directives. This
instruction also applies to Air National Guard (ANG) and Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units of
the United States. This Instruction applies to ANG units of the United States, as only Title 10 status
Guardsmen would be performing duties attached to Air Force units in Norway. Certain provisions of this
instruction are punitive. Violations of the specific prohibitions in paragraphs and related paragraphs 2.1.,
4.1., 4.2., 5.1., 6.1., and 6.2. of this instruction by military personnel may result in prosecution under Arti-
cle 92(1) and, or Article 134 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). Civilian personnel are sub-
ject to disciplinary action (including loss of logistic support privileges) for violations of these paragraphs
according to applicable service instructions on civilian misconduct and adverse administrative actions.
Civilians may also be subject to criminal prosecution by the host nation for violation of host nation laws.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of
Records, 31 Aug 1994 and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located in AFRIMS (AF Portal).
2                                                               USAFEI51-709(I) 29 JANUARY 2007



SUMMARY OF CHANGES
Changes name of Joint Headquarters North (JHQ North) to Joint Warfare Centre (JWC). Updates para-
graphs 3.1.1., 3.1.2. and 6.2.1. Revisions are indicated by a vertical bar (|) in the left margin.


1. Responsibilities:
    1.1. United States (U.S.) Country Representative (USCR). The senior U.S. military officer, Joint
    Warfare Centre (JWC), is the USCR, Norway, and is responsible for ensuring implementation of and
    compliance with this instruction, conducting an annual review of the instruction, drafting changes to
    the instruction as needed and coordinating proposed changes with the U.S. Defense Representative.
    The USCR, Norway, is authorized to issue supplementary instructions when considered necessary or
    desirable to disseminate more detailed guidance or to impose additional restrictions.
    1.2. Covered Personnel. Violations of the restrictions set out in this instruction may subject offend-
    ers to disciplinary action and, or loss of privileges.
    1.3. Supplements. U.S. military commanders are authorized to issue supplementary instructions to
    this instruction when considered necessary or desirable to disseminate more detailed guidance or to
    impose additional restrictions. No supplement may be issued which will relax restrictions or proce-
    dures set out in this instruction. Proposed supplements are to be coordinated with the USCR, Norway,
    before implementation. Supplement this instruction according to AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
    Program.
    1.4. Other Directives. Nothing in this instruction is intended to conflict with or relax policies and
    procedures established in other directives that are applicable to respective members of the individual
    armed services.

2. Acquisition and Disposal of Personal Property and Customs Control:
    2.1. General. All personnel are subject to Norwegian customs restrictions.
       2.1.1. Import of Household Goods. Permanently assigned personnel may import into Norway
       two shipments of household goods during their tour of duty for the duration of that tour; the first
       shipment must be within the first four months of arrival. These imports are considered temporarily
       duty and tax-free imports. All such items must be for the personal use of the assigned personnel or
       their dependents.
       2.1.2. Other Goods. Other than goods obtained through recognized military sales channels, all
       goods imported into the country by U.S. personnel on an individual basis are subject to Norwegian
       import directives and duties and must be cleared through Norwegian customs with the following
       exceptions: First, the U.S. Element at JWC may import goods duty-free by parcel post using the
       U.S. military postal system on behalf of the individual entitled members of the JWC for their own
       and their dependents’ use, provided the value of each importation does not exceed 1,500 Norwe-
       gian Kroner (NOK). Norwegian authorities may exercise customs controls and impose duties on
       personal parcels received through the military postal system (APO) if the value exceeds 1,500
       NOK. Second, the U.S. Element may import parcels over 1,500 NOK for entitled members using
       proper North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) customs forms and JWC procedures. Person-
USAFEI51-709(I) 29 JANUARY 2007                                                                        3


      nel will comply with applicable U.S. and Norwegian laws pertaining to customs controls and
      duties on personal property received through the APO in Norway. The APO in Norway will not
      accept cash on delivery (COD) parcels.
      2.1.3. In Country Purchases. Authorized U.S. personnel may purchase duty and tax free goods
      through recognized military sales channels (U.S., NATO, Norwegian military exchanges, commis-
      saries, or ship’s store) within Norway during their tour of duty. Authorized U.S. personnel may be
      reimbursed for Value Added Tax paid on certain in-country purchases. JWC and the U.S. Element
      administer this tax relief program. For motor vehicles, see paragraph 6. of this instruction.
      2.1.4. Export. Duty and tax free items imported or acquired during a tour of duty by authorized
      personnel must be exported from Norway upon departure from Norway or upon completion of the
      tour of duty, transferred to another individual authorized the same duty and tax free privilege, or
      disposed of according to paragraph 2.1.5.
      2.1.5. Disposal. Duty and tax free items imported or acquired during a tour of duty by authorized
      personnel and their dependents, regardless of the method or place of acquisition of such property
      or the length of time the property has been in the possession of the authorized person, will not be
      sold, traded, conveyed, or otherwise transferred to persons in Norway not entitled to the same duty
      and tax free privilege except as permitted by U.S. and Norwegian authorities. Duty and tax free
      items include items for which tax relief was obtained subsequent to the point of sale. Duty and tax
      free property shall not be disposed of to nonentitled persons by sale, barter, gift, conveyance or
      any other manner of transfer until Norwegian duties and taxes have been paid. Valuation at the
      time of disposal shall be determined by Norwegian customs valuation instructions. In disposing of
      any personal property, regardless of origin, personnel are prohibited from advertising before the
      general public or advertising in any manner that could be considered sensational. JWC and local
      U.S. service commanders may establish further specific guidelines for appropriate advertising.
      2.1.6. Aiding. No person authorized to import or purchase goods duty and tax free may aid or
      abet any other person in obtaining and/or transferring duty and tax free goods in contravention of
      this instruction.

3. Currency:
   3.1. U.S. and Norwegian Currency. United States currency is used in U.S. forces facilities. U.S.
   currency may also be used on the Norwegian economy; however, it is normally economically advan-
   tageous to exchange U.S. currency for Norwegian currency at the U.S. disbursing offices or facilities
   and use the Norwegian currency on the local economy.
      3.1.1. Import. Personnel may bring with them into Norway unlimited Norwegian kroner and
      unlimited foreign currency. But personnel importing Norwegian kroner (NOK) or foreign cur-
      rency in an amount exceeding 25,000 NOK are required to inform Norwegian Customs authori-
      ties.
      3.1.2. Export. Generally, no restrictions apply to the export of foreign currency. Authorized per-
      sonnel may carry up to and including 25,000 NOK out of Norway without restrictions. But person-
      nel exporting Norwegian kroner or foreign currency in an amount exceeding 25,000 NOK must
      receive permission from the Central Bank of Norway.

4. Weapons:
4                                                                 USAFEI51-709(I) 29 JANUARY 2007


    4.1. Privately Owned Firearms. Norwegian law requires permission be obtained from the Norwe-
    gian police in order to import privately owned firearms into Norway. In general, sporting guns are
    allowed although some types of shotguns are prohibited. If import permission is not obtained prior to
    arrival in country, the firearms will be confiscated on entry into Norway. Importation of privately
    owned ammunition is prohibited.
    4.2. Martial Arts Weapons. The importation into Norway of all martial arts weapons is prohibited.
    4.3. Further Controls. Commanders may prescribe further controls as required for firearms, ammu-
    nition, and other dangerous weapons.

5. Rationed Items:
    5.1. Tobacco and Alcoholic Items, General. The Norwegian Government controls the importation,
    acquisition and sale of duty and tax free alcoholic beverages (except beer) and duty and tax free
    tobacco products on an individual rationed basis. In addition, U.S. military directives may establish
    other controls. Personnel will comply with U.S. military directives and Norwegian laws pertaining to
    the importation, acquisition and disposal of duty and tax free alcoholic beverages and tobacco prod-
    ucts in Norway. Additionally, the rules in paragraph 2.1.5. apply to the disposal of duty and tax-free
    alcoholic beverages and tobacco products in Norway.
       5.1.1. Amounts. The following amounts may be purchased duty and tax free through recognized
       military sales channels: ten liters of wine and six bottles of distilled spirits, liqueurs or fortified
       wines per month per entitled member; one thousand cigarettes (or equivalent allocation for other
       tobacco products) per entitled member and each dependent over the age of 16, per month, aver-
       aged for the duration of the authorized member's tour.

6. Importation, Operation, and Control of Privately Owned Motor Vehicles (POV):
    6.1. Importation, Acquisition, Transfer and Disposal of POVs. Personnel assigned to NATO duty
    in Norway shall not acquire, import, transfer or in any other way dispose of a POV except as follows:
       6.1.1. U.S. personnel entitled to motor vehicles free of duties and taxes under Article 14-2 of the
       Supplementary Agreement may acquire such vehicles by importation or purchase from another
       entitled person or purchase on the Norwegian domestic market.
       6.1.2. Entitled personnel may own at any one time one duty free vehicle if unaccompanied or, if
       accompanied by dependents, two duty free vehicles. Vehicles must be registered to the entitled
       personnel.
       6.1.3. Duty and tax free vehicles may be replaced by any of the methods in paragraph 6.1.1. free
       of duties and taxes, as desired by the individual owner, so long as the vehicle being replaced has
       been:
           6.1.3.1. Re-exported.
           6.1.3.2. Sold to another person with like entitlement to a tax-free vehicle.
           6.1.3.3. Sold with Norwegian taxes and duties paid.
           6.1.3.4. Certified by the Norwegian customs, police authorities, or an authorized scrapping
           firm that it has been destroyed or stolen. No taxes or levies for remaining value shall be
           charged.
USAFEI51-709(I) 29 JANUARY 2007                                                                          5


     6.1.4. Taxes. When a motor vehicle is sold (or ‘traded in’ on the purchase of another car) on the
     Norwegian domestic market under paragraph 6.1.3.3., taxes and duties shall be based on Norwe-
     gian regulations; payment of assessed taxes and duties is the responsibility of the seller.
     6.1.5. Sham Transactions. No person shall buy a motor vehicle unless the purpose of the trans-
     action is for the personal use of the motor vehicle by the entitled person or his entitled dependents.
     Sham transactions, which result in the nonpayment of taxes otherwise owed to the Norwegian
     government, are strictly forbidden. Personnel may not sell or dispose of a motor vehicle unless all
     applicable Norwegian taxes and duties are paid and the Norwegian Motor Vehicle Registration
     Office is notified.
     6.1.6. Limited Use. A U.S. forces owner of a tax-free vehicle is required to restrict the use of that
     vehicle to his or her immediate family. Members must request and receive written authorization
     from the U.S. Support Element to permit the use of a tax free vehicle by visiting relatives or other
     entitled members of the force.
  6.2. Operation and Control of POVs. U.S. service commanders will ensure that all personnel are
  aware of applicable Norwegian laws and U.S. military directives pertaining to the registration and
  operation of motor vehicles. Personnel will comply with Norwegian laws while operating POVs in
  Norway. Norway operates under the International Road Sign system that is generally used throughout
  Western Europe.
     6.2.1. Driving while Intoxicated. Norwegian law prohibits any person from operating or
     attempting to operate a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or any other intoxicat-
     ing or narcotic agent. A blood-alcohol level equal to or greater than 0.02 grams of alcohol per 100
     milliliters of blood creates a presumption of intoxication. In general, persons convicted by a Nor-
     wegian court for driving or attempting to drive while intoxicated will normally lose their privilege
     to drive in Norway and will be subject to heavy monetary fines. In more serious cases, the individ-
     ual may be subject to imprisonment.
     6.2.2. Six Hour No Consumption Law: It is illegal for any person to consume alcohol or any
     other intoxicating or narcotic agent during the first six hours after having been involved in an inci-
     dent while driving a motor vehicle which incident the driver realized, or should have realized,
     would be subject to police investigation. This offense carries the same penalty as driving or
     attempting to drive while intoxicated.
     6.2.3. Insurance. Third party (public liability and property damage) insurance is compulsory
     under Norwegian law. A vehicle imported duty-free under the applicable NATO Status of Forces
     Agreement (SOFA), or purchased by a member or dependent, must be insured by, or through, an
     insurance company licensed to operate in Norway, before it can be registered and licensed.
     6.2.4. Operator's License. U.S. personnel assigned to units in support of NATO in Norway and
     their dependents are authorized to operate a POV with a valid operator’s license issued by any
     state of the United States of America, a valid Norwegian operator’s license, or a valid international
     driver’s license. Dependents who attain driving age (18 years old) while in Norway, or who
     other-wise do not possess a valid driving license or permit from their sending State, may obtain a
     Norwegian driving license after complying with the appropriate Norwegian regulations.
     6.2.5. Registration. Vehicles privately owned by U.S. personnel and their dependents must be
     inspected and registered with the Norwegian Motor Vehicle Registration Office prior to licensure.
     Personnel are to notify the Norwegian Vehicle Registration Office within 3 days after any change
6                                                           USAFEI51-709(I) 29 JANUARY 2007


    of location, ownership or re-export of the duty and tax free vehicle. The vehicle registration card
    is to be in the vehicle at all times.
    6.2.6. Markings. The display of any type of service insignia, emblems, stickers, or plates on a
    POV is prohibited unless required or permitted by Norwegian law.



                                           DANIEL B. FINCHER, Colonel, USAF
                                           USAFE Staff Judge Advocate



                                           JAMES C. BOOZER, Colonel, GS
                                           Army Europe Deputy Chief of Staff
                                           Official



                                            DARRELL L. BRIGHT
                                            Regional Chief Information Officer - Europe



                                           NOEL PRESTON, Admiral, CNRE
                                           Commander, Navy Region Europe
USAFEI51-709(I) 29 JANUARY 2007                                                                       7


                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 51-7, International Law, 19 Jan 2001
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 18 May 2006
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 Aug 1994
Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of Their Forces, signed
19 June 1951 (NATO Status of Forces Agreement). (4 UST 1792; 199 UNTS 64) (BGB1 1961, II, 1138,
1190) Protocol on the Status of International Military Headquarters Set Up Pursuant to the North Atlan-
tic Treaty (Paris Protocol), signed 28 August 1952. Date of entry into forces with respect to the United
States of America: 10 April 1954. (5 UST; TIAS 2978; 200 UNTS 340)
Supplementary Agreement between the Kingdom of Norway and the Supreme Headquarters Allied Pow-
ers Europe on the Special Conditions Applicable to the Establishment and Operation on Norwegian Ter-
ritory of International Military Headquarters, 10 January 1996
Exchange of Letters Implementing the Supplementary Agreement between the Kingdom of Norway and
the Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe, 10 January 1996
United States European Command (USEUCOM) Directive 45-7, Country Regulations, 4 January 2005
Applicable Norwegian law; and existing U.S. and NATO military directives

Abbreviations and Acronyms
APO—Army Post Office Overseas
JWC—Joint Warfare Centre
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NAVCEUR—Navy Command Europe
NOK—Norwegian Kroner
NRE—Navy Region Europe
POV—Privately owned vehicle
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
U.S.—United States
USAREUR—United States Army Europe
USCR—United States Country Representative
