BY ORDER OF THE                                            HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                            ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3526

                                                                           2 NOVEMBER 2012

                                                                                     Personnel

                                                        USAFA COURSE OF INSTRUCTION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/A5D                                               Certified by: HQ USAFA/A589
                                                                       (Col Kim D. Hawthorne)
Supersedes:   USAFAI36-3526,                                                        Pages: 10
              23 October 2009


This instruction implements AFI 36-3501, Air Force Academy Operations, and describes the
purpose and structure of the Academy’s Course of Instruction (COI). The guidance applies to all
Air Force military and civilian personnel assigned to the United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA) in addition to US Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard, and Tenant Unit personnel
assigned to USAFA. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication. Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.             See
Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and should be thoroughly reviewed.
 2                                                      USAFAI36-3526 2 NOVEMBER 2012



                                           Chapter 1

                                          GENERAL

1.1. Definition. The Course of Instruction (COI) at USAFA includes all training, education, and
experiential programs, all policies and processes, and curricular, extra-curricular, and mission
activities designed in accordance with (IAW) the nineteen specific USAFA Responsibilities,
Skills and Knowledge Outcomes and the Commissioning Sources Learning Objectives (AFI 36-
2014, Commissioning Education Program). Per AFI 36-3501, Air Force Academy Operations
and 10-U.S.C.9349 (b), the Superintendent of USAFA will maintain and implement a COI. The
COI will directly support accomplishment of the mission of USAFA.
1.2. Purpose and Organization. The COI will be designed to achieve the goals set forth in
public law, higher headquarters directives, and accreditation requirements. It will be developed
as a single, integrated whole.
     1.2.1. The COI will reflect a focus on the mission of USAFA as defined in AFMD 12,
     United States Air Force Academy, development of the Air Force Institutional Competencies
     listed in Air Force Doctrine Document (AFDD) 1-1, Leadership and Force Development, the
     learning objectives in AFI 36-2014, Commissioning Education Program, and the USAFA
     Outcomes.
     1.2.2. The COI will be organized by the principal program areas identified in AFPD 36-35,
     United States Air Force Academy, and USAFAPAM 36-3527, The Officer Development
     System: Developing Leaders of Character. These principal areas will focus on character
     development, leadership development, an accredited Bachelor of Science degree program,
     and physical development. The Officer Development System (ODS) will be used to guide
     cadets, faculty, and staff through this yearly progression using education, training, and
     experiences as identified in AFMD 12. Character development will be integrated throughout
     academic, leadership, and physical development education IAW AFI 36-3501. Additionally,
     the effectiveness of these programs will be assessed in accordance with USAFAI 36-3502,
     Institutional Effectiveness.
1.3. Integration. Developing Airmen happens through a deliberate process, one that aims to
produce the right capabilities to meet the Air Force’s operational needs (AFDD 1-1, Leadership
and Force Development). USAFA will manage the COI as a single integrated whole to ensure
effective synchronization and de-confliction, use of a deliberate building block approach, and
maximize synergy gained by reinforcement of goals and objectives across mission partners
(MPs). The Superintendent will establish policies to facilitate integration of the COI.
     1.3.1. The principal program areas identified in AFPD 36-35 and USAFAPAM 36-3527 are
     closely interrelated. However, delivery in a compartmentalized manner will greatly diminish
     the synergistic effects upon cadet development. Therefore, each commander must ensure
     integration of effort across mission partners, and throughout all principal program areas
     building on the foundation of character development. While MP boundaries must not
     constrain development, their separate programs will provide structure to organize cadet
     development in a systematic way.
USAFAI36-3526 2 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                3


   1.3.2. Core character and leadership development programs. Within the overall COI there
   will be a defined and integrated core of leadership and character development programs. All
   USAFA MPs will contribute to this integrated core through education, training, and
   experiences as part of their specific graduation requirements of MPs. This developmental
   program using the aspects of the ODS shall be deliberately designed to ensure all cadets are
   grounded in the fundamentals of character-based officership.
1.4. The Officer Development System. USAFA will use the ODS in all aspects of cadet
development. MPs will use the ODS and tailor it to their program to develop officers of
character. The ODS provides all members of the Academy constituency a framework and set of
strategies to accomplish its mission of building leaders of character based on a development
process. This process is further outlined in USAFAPAM 36-3527.
1.5. Commissioning requirements. Receiving a commission as a second lieutenant in the
United States Air Force is based on an assessment of moral character and ability to serve.
AFI 36-2005, Appointment in Commissioned Grades and Designation and Assignment in
Professional Categories-Reserve of the Air Force and United States Air Force, establishes
minimum requirements for receiving a commission and establishes that the Superintendent
“appoints and assigns USAFA graduates as second lieutenants in the USAF.” In addition to
AFI 36-2005 requirements, USAFA graduation and USAF commissioning standards, although
complementary, are separate requirements. USAFA graduation standards are, in many areas,
intentionally more rigorous than the minimum USAF commissioning standards. USAFA has the
following minimum requirements for commissioning:
   1.5.1. Satisfactory completion of mandatory elements as outlined in the USAF Academy
   Curriculum Handbook.
   1.5.2. Not on any probation as prescribed by mission partner commanders.
   1.5.3. Meet AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program, commissioning fitness standards.
 4                                                       USAFAI36-3526 2 NOVEMBER 2012


                                            Chapter 2

     AIR FORCE INSTITUTIONAL COMPETENCIES AND USAFA OUTCOMES

2.1. Course of Instruction. The term Course of Instruction (COI) is used to describe the
cumulative experience of cadets at the Air Force Academy, including its character, leadership,
academic and physical development components. While the term itself is new for many, the idea
is a familiar one: COI refers to the totality of courses, programs, and experiences provided by
the MPs that prepares cadets to become commissioned officers in the Air Force. And while it is
certainly the Academy’s intent that each cadet excels to the best of his or her ability in the COI,
there necessarily must be minimum requirements established by the respective MPs for
graduation and commissioning. It is understandable; therefore, that we have come to think of
success in the COI in terms of levels of performance on the basic metrics used by each of the
respective MPs (i.e., Military Performance Assessment, Grade Point Average, Physical
Education Average).
2.2. AF Institutional Competency List. The term Course of Instruction should be understood
in terms both of the two purposes it serves: (1) represents the essentially functional contributions
of the MPs in assuring that graduation requirements are met; and (2) also represents the
integrated and cross-functional contributions of the MPs supporting development of the USAF
Institutional Competencies through the Commissioning Sources Learning Objectives identified
in AFI 36-2014, Commissioning Education Program, and the Academy’s Outcomes.
2.3. Outcomes. The Academy’s adoption of Institutional Outcomes creates additional ways of
understanding the purpose of the COI. There are nineteen specific Responsibilities, Skills or
Knowledge Outcomes, which define what the COI should develop in cadets. This is explicitly
expressed in the USAFA Strategic Plan. In other words, the Outcomes define the high-level
developmental objectives of the COI, which by their nature are developed through the integrated
contributions of the MPs.
USAFAI36-3526 2 NOVEMBER 2012                                                                 5


                                          Chapter 3

            TRAINING, EDUCATION, AND EXPERIENCE INTEGRATION

3.1. Integration of Effort. Each of USAFA’s MPs brings unique capabilities, which are
integrated to achieve the COI. Understandably, these unique capabilities may be more closely
aligned with one of the principal program areas more than the others (e.g., the Athletic
Department’s unique capabilities are most closely aligned with physical development).
However, each MP employs their capabilities across the full continuum of learning (education,
training, and experience) building on the foundation of character development to support
integrated achievement of all principal program areas (academic, leadership, and physical
development) comprising the COI.
   3.1.1. Education. A developmental curriculum with a deliberately structured core of
   academic courses (to include courses in the basic sciences, humanities, social sciences, and
   engineering) supported and synchronized with professional military and physical education
   programs, etc.
   3.1.2. Training. Build skill sets required of an expeditionary Airman and leader of character
   through hands-on training and repetition.
   3.1.3. Experiences. Progressively structured leadership and character focused experiences
   within and across all USAFA MPs tied directly to and synchronized with education received
   in core curriculum and training programs.
 6                                                      USAFAI36-3526 2 NOVEMBER 2012


                                            Chapter 4

                CADET DEVELOPMENT INTEGRATION ACROSS USAFA

4.1. General. Per United States Air Force Academy Mission Directives (USAFAMD), the
Director of Athletics, the Commandant of Cadets, the Dean of the Faculty, and the AFA
Preparatory School Commander are viewed as "supported commanders" who are primarily
focused on one aspect of cadet development, as listed below. In pursuit of USAFA's mission and
of the COI, these supported commanders' efforts will be complemented by one or more
"supporting commanders," in achieving the vision of the COI. Additionally, each MP has
tremendous impact on other MPs in relation to cadet development in the three primary areas of
The Officer Development System (as defined in USAFAPAM 36-3527):
     4.1.1. The Foundation is the why we are training cadets to become officers of character.
     4.1.2. The USAFA Outcomes (Responsibilities, Skills and Knowledge) are what we expect
     cadets to have developed upon graduation and commissioning.
     4.1.3. The Process is how we get there—the purpose of this COI.
4.2. Supported Commander Relationships.
     4.2.1. Per AFI 36-3501, Air Force Academy Operations, the Superintendent is the supported
     commander for officer of character and leadership development. The importance of
     character development is central to all mission partner programs and activities. Character
     and leadership development serves as the foundation for all other programs and functions as
     a driving force for the development of the Air Force Institutional Competencies through the
     achievement of the USAFA Outcomes, as well as the graduation and commissioning of
     officers of character.      All MPs act as supporting commanders to facilitate the
     Superintendent’s objectives.
        4.2.1.1. Honor Code. A critical characteristic distinguishing a profession from a
        vocation is the willingness of its members to establish and enforce standards of
        professional conduct, removing those who fail to meet the standard. The Cadet Honor
        Code is a statement of intent: “We will not lie, steal, or cheat, nor tolerate among us
        anyone who does.” The code is the foundation upon which each cadet builds a personal
        concept of professional ethics and a minimum standard of integrity. Living by the code
        fosters a feeling of mutual trust and respect, which grows throughout a cadet’s Academy
        years and beyond. In addition to the honor code is the honor oath, which adds the
        following after the code: “Furthermore, I resolve to do my duty and to live honorably, so
        help me God.” This is the oath each cadet recites at the beginning of each academic year.
        4.2.1.2. The intent is for cadets to hold both themselves and their peers to this explicit
        standard of conduct, thus the “toleration clause.”
     4.2.2. Per USAFAMD 2, Directorate of Athletics, the Director of Athletics is the supported
     commander for physical development of cadets. Supporting commanders will complement
     USAFA/AD programs to facilitate the Director’s objectives.
     4.2.3. Per USAFAMD 3, Commandant of Cadets, the Commandant of Cadets is the
     supported commander for developing cadets to be leaders of character. Supporting
USAFAI36-3526 2 NOVEMBER 2012                                                              7


  commanders will complement USAFA/CW programs to facilitate the Commandant’s
  objectives.
  4.2.4. Per USAFAMD 4, Dean of the Faculty, the Dean of the Faculty is the supported
  commander for academic development of cadets. Supporting commanders will complement
  USAFA/DF programs to facilitate the Dean’s objectives.
     4.2.4.1. The academic curriculum will maintain regional accreditation and result in the
     award of a Bachelor of Science degree upon completion of graduation requirements.
     4.2.4.2. The academic core curriculum will be a carefully chosen and designed collection
     of courses integrated with the broader COI that are crafted to prepare cadets for
     outstanding service as Air Force officers.
  4.2.5. Per USAFAMD 5, United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School, the
  Preparatory School Commander is the supported commander for academic, physical,
  character, and leadership development of cadet candidates. Supporting commanders will
  complement USAFA/PL programs to facilitate the commander’s objectives.
  4.2.6. The graphic below (Figure 1) shows each MP has a primary role and responsibility for
  cadet growth in leadership, education, and physical development. Each MP spans across
  these areas and supports each other in order to graduate and commission officers of
  character.
 8                                               USAFAI36-3526 2 NOVEMBER 2012




Figure 4.1. Course of Instruction and Integration - by: HQ USAFA/A5D.




                                       TAMRA L. RANK, Col, USAF
                                       Vice Superintendent
USAFAI36-3526 2 NOVEMBER 2012                                                        9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFDD 1-1, Leadership and Force Development
AFI 36-2005, Appointment in Commissioned Grades and Designation and Assignment in
Professional Categories – Reserve of the Air Force and the United States Air Force
AFI 36-2014, Commissioning Education Program
AFI 36-2905, Fitness Program
AFI 36-3501, Air Force Academy Operations
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI 36-3502, Institutional Effectiveness
USAFAMD 2, Directorate of Athletics
USAFAMD 3, Commandant of Cadets
USAFAMD 4, Dean of the Faculty
USAFAMD 5, United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School
USAFAPAM 36-3527, The Officer Development System: Developing Leaders of Character
United States Air Force Academy Curriculum Handbook
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFMD—Air Force Mission Directive
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
COI—Course of Instruction
GPA—Grade Point Average
LGM—Leadership Growth Model
MPs—Mission Partners
MPA—Military Performance Assessment
ODS—Officer Development System
PEA—Physical Education Average
PITO—Personal, Interpersonal, Teams and Organizational Development Model
 10                                                    USAFAI36-3526 2 NOVEMBER 2012


UIF—Unfavorable Information File
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFA/AD—United States Air Force Academy Department of Athletics
USAFA/CW—United States Air Force Academy Cadet Wing
USAFA/DF—United States Air Force Academy Dean of Faculty
USAFA/PL—United States Air Force Academy Preparatory School

Terms
Cadet Honor Code— A statement of intent: “We will not lie, steal, or cheat, nor tolerate among
us anyone who does.”
Character— One’s moral compass; the sum of those qualities of moral excellence which move
a person to do the right things despite pressures to the contrary.
Grade Point Average (GPA)— Represents the cumulative grade point average for all academic
subjects, including military science courses.
Leadership— The art and science of motivating, influencing, and directing Airmen to
understand and accomplish the Air Force mission. (AFDD1-1)
Military Performance Assessment (MPA)— Program designed to provide cadets with specific
and meaningful information about their officer development, using LGM each semester
providing 360-degree feedback, expectations and assessment using PITO based criteria from all
MPs defined by each cadet year’s competencies.
Mission Partners (MP)— Strictly defined at USAFA as Department of Athletics, Cadet Wing,
Dean of Faculty, 10th Air Base Wing, and USAFA Preparatory School.
Officer Development System— Provides all members of the Academy constituency a
framework and set of strategies to accomplish our mission of building leaders of character based
on a four-year development process using the PITO and LGM models.
Physical Education Average (PEA)— Represents the cumulative average of all Physical
Education (PE), Physical Fitness Test (PFT), and Aerobic Fitness Test (AFT) grades.
