BY ORDER OF THE                                           HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                            ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 65-103

                                                                              6 AUGUST 2014

                                                                       Financial Management

                                                     FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT POLICY

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the
               e-Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/FMF                                               Certified by: HQ USAFA/FMP
                                                                          (Mr. Terry Anderson)
Supersedes:   USAFAI65-103,                                                           Pages: 25
              30 May 2012


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 65-1, Management of Financial
Services. The purpose of this publication is to publish United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA) Financial Management (FM) policy and procedures guidance. This publication covers
various pay and travel situations unique to USAFA. This instruction applies to all USAFA
personnel. This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the
Air National Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to
the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication. The authorities to waive requirements in this publication are
identified with a Tier ("T-0, T-1, T-2, T-3") number following the compliance statement. See
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, for a description of
the authorities associated with the Tier numbers. Submit requests for waivers through the chain
of command to the appropriate Tier waiver approval authority. The waiver authority for non-
tiered requirements in this publication is HQ USAFA/FM. Ensure all records created as a result
of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Item 3 was revised with the most current local area travel guidance including an updated map of
the defined local area at Attachment 3. Also, the USAFA Vice Superintendent policy on local
area travel was added for privately owned vehicle reimbursement. Reimbursement shall not be
allowed until after a Department of Defense (DoD) owned, rented or leased motor vehicle is
 2                                                                                       USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014


determined to be unavailable. Paragraph 4, on subsistence of USAFA cadets while TDY to other
Air Force installations, was updated with the current memorandum reference shown at
Attachment 4. Paragraph 10 was added to provide guidance on wire transfers to foreign
countries, paragraph 11 was added for conference registration fees and paragraph 12 was added
for the Centrally Billed Account (CBA) unit travel card policy.

        1.     Receipts required for Temporary Duty (TDY) settlement vouchers at USAFA. ...                                               2
        2.     Reduced rate of Per Diem for sports teams and club travel. ..................................                              3
        3.     Local area travel. ....................................................................................................    3
        4.     Subsistence of USAFA cadets while TDY to other Air Force installations. .........                                          3
        5.     Proportional Per Diem (PPD). ...............................................................................               4
        6.     USAFA Form 121 – TDY Request Worksheet. ....................................................                               4
        7.     USAFA Form 128 – Constructive Travel Cost Comparison Worksheet –
               Authorization, used when traveling out of Denver instead of Colorado Springs. .                                            4
        8.     TDY cost comparison guidance. ............................................................................                 5
        9.     Reduced Rate of Per Diem USAFA Combat Survival Training (Saylor Park). ....                                                6
        10.    Wire Transfer Guidance – Funds Outgoing to Foreign Countries. ........................                                     6
        11.    Conference Registration Fees. ...............................................................................              7
        12.    CBA Unit Travel Card Policy and Procedures. .....................................................                          7

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                           11

Attachment 2—REDUCED RATE OF PER DIEM FOR SPORTS TEAMS AND CLUB
             TRAVEL                                                                                                                      14

Attachment 3—LOCAL AREA TRAVEL                                                                                                           15

Attachment 4—SUBSISTENCE OF USAFA CADETS WHILE TDY TO OTHER AIR
             FORCE INSTALLATIONS                                                                                                         21

Attachment 5—PROPORTIONAL PER DIEM                                                                                                       23

Attachment 6—TDY COST COMPARISON GUIDANCE                                                                                                24

Attachment 7—REDUCED RATE OF PER DIEM USAFA COMBAT SURVIVAL
             TRAINING (SAYLOR PARK)                                                                                                      25


1. Receipts required for Temporary Duty (TDY) settlement vouchers at USAFA. (T-0).
     1.1. USAFA TDY travelers and approving officials shall ensure receipts, regardless of
     amount, are attached to the Defense Travel System (DTS) or manual settlement vouchers for
     lodging, airline, rental car and registration fees. In addition, receipts for all other
     reimbursable expenses of $75 or more shall be attached to the DTS or manual settlement
     voucher. To be considered a valid receipt it must show the company name, date services
USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014                                                                    3


   were provided, unit price of item/service, amount “paid” and “amount due” of $0.00 or
   evidence of payment.
2. Reduced rate of Per Diem for sports teams and club travel. (T-0).
   2.1. On 4 Sep 2008, the Secretary of the Air Force for Force Management and Personnel
   (SAF/MRM) approved a USAFA request to eliminate the incidental expense portion of per
   diem payable to USAFA personnel traveling as a group in a “members traveling together”
   status when transportation, meals and lodging are provided to travelers without charge. The
   reduction was established for USAFA appropriated fund (APF) and nonappropriated fund
   (NAF) sports team and cadet club travel. See Attachment 2, Figure A2.1. for the SAF/MRM
   approval memorandum.
3. Local area travel. (T-0).
   3.1. Air Force Space Command (AFSPC) Commander (CC) memorandum, dated 3 March
   2014, defined the boundaries for official local area travel in accordance with the Department
   of Defense Financial Management Regulation (DoDFMR), Volume 9, Chapter 4, Paragraph
   040801. The DoDFMR states “when two or more installations are in close proximity, the
   senior commander or senior service commander should determine the local area.” The
   boundaries of the local commuting area (United States Air Force Academy, Cheyenne
   Mountain Air Force Station (AFS), Peterson Air Force Base (AFB) and Schreiver AFB) are
   defined on the map at Attachment 3, Figure A3.1. The map highlights the roads which
   establish the boundaries of the local travel area. USAFA personnel traveling beyond the
   defined boundaries for local travel must be on official travel orders.
   3.2. As stewards of taxpayer dollars, it is our duty to ensure accountability and disciplined
   use of our resources. Funding is provided each year to the 10th Logistics Readiness Squadron
   (LRS) to provide transportation support to USAFA (organizational vehicles, base taxi and U-
   Drive-It). It is fiscally irresponsible for organizations to reimburse mileage when these
   government transportation assets are available.
   3.3. The voluntary use of a privately owned vehicle (POV) on a reimbursable basis shall not
   be allowed until after a DoD-owned, rented or leased motor vehicle is determined to be
   unavailable. Instances where mileage is reimbursed due to the non-availability of
   government transportation should be extremely rare and necessary for mission
   accomplishment. Several USAFA organizations have one or more government vehicles
   assigned that should always be utilized first before contacting vehicle operations. After the
   commander, director or deputy determines an organizational assigned vehicle is not
   available, the traveler contacts USAFA vehicle operations at 333-2230 to request government
   transportation (base taxi or U-Drive-It). Vehicle operations will issue an email non-
   availability statement when government transportation is not available.            Reference
   Attachment 3, Figure 3.2. for Memorandum dated 18 April 2014, Subject: USAFA Local
   Area Reimbursement Policy – Every Dollar Counts.
4. Subsistence of USAFA cadets while TDY to other Air Force installations. (T-1).
   4.1. USAFA cadets on TDY orders authorizing government meals without charge in Air
   Force appropriated fund dining facilities will be treated as meal card holders. HQ Air Force
   Services Agency, Air Force Food Service Branch (AFSVA/SVOHF) and HQ USAFA/FMP
   Memorandum dated 16 January 2013 applies. See Attachment 4, Figure A4.1.
 4                                                               USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014


5. Proportional Per Diem (PPD). (T-0).
     5.1. Commanders, TDY Approving Officials, and TDY Travelers shall provide justification
     if authorizing full per diem rather than PPD for active duty personnel TDY to military
     installations. Government meal availability at military installations is the same for officers
     and enlisted and both are expected to use available government dining facilities. Approving
     officials or travelers uncertain of meal availability at a particular location should go to
     http://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/lodging.cfm and click either ‘CONUS’ or
     ‘OCONUS’ located under the “Directory of Government Quarters and Dining Facilities” on
     the right side of the page under Quick Links. A USAFA Meal Option Guide is available at
     Attachment 5, Figure A5.1.
6. USAFA Form 121 – TDY Request Worksheet.
     6.1. The USAFA Form 121, TDY Request Worksheet, is available on e-publishing as an
     optional form USAFA organizations may use to determine TDY costs before completion of
     DTS or manual TDY orders.
7. USAFA Form 128 – Constructive Travel Cost Comparison Worksheet – Authorization,
used when traveling out of Denver instead of Colorado Springs. (T-0).
     7.1. The USAFA Form 128, Constructive Travel Cost Comparison Worksheet –
     Authorization, shall be used by all TDY travelers requesting departure or return from the
     Denver Airport. This cost comparison shall be approved by the unit TDY approving official
     (AO) before input of the travel request into DTS. If the AO approves the USAFA Form 128
     as cost effective, the traveler shall attach the form to the DTS TDY request. On manual
     orders and vouchers, the USAFA Form 128 is attached to the TDY travel request and the
     settlement voucher.
     7.2. Travelers will only be allowed to travel out of the Denver Airport when the total cost is
     cheaper than the total cost for travel out of the Colorado Springs Airport. The determination
     as to whether travel out of the Denver Airport is more cost-effective is made by the AO, and
     not the local commercial travel office (CTO). The CTO will make reservations based on the
     traveler’s DTS submission, approved by the TDY AO. The AO is responsible to ensure the
     cost criteria are met and any request not cost effective or properly supported shall be returned
     to the traveler. The AO may also deny reimbursement of the additional travel costs and/or
     CTO booking fee costs incurred by the traveler due to a traveler’s non-compliance with this
     instruction.
     7.3. Colorado Springs is the servicing terminal for USAFA. Denver is not a servicing
     terminal for USAFA and is not in the defined local area. A traveler can use the airport that
     best suits the traveler’s needs in an area/location with multiple airports, after considering the
     most cost effective routing and transportation means (to include not only airfares, but also
     transportation to and from airports, parking fees and tolls). In contrast, a traveler may not be
     required to use a nearby airport that is not a servicing airport even though the more distant
     airport provides a less costly airfare. Reference Joint Federal Travel Regulations (JFTR)
     Paragraphs U2155 A and B, and the Joint Travel Regulations (JTR) Paragraphs C2155 A and
     B.
USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014                                                                     5


   7.4. The only exception, when the total cost is greater from the Denver airport, is for the
   traveler to complete a mission impact statement IAW AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement,
   paragraph 3.31. The mission impact statement is only valid when approved by the AO. If
   approved, the mission impact statement is attached to the DTS TDY request and to the TDY
   settlement voucher on manual TDY claims. Organizations with groups of 10 or more
   travelers traveling together may complete a mission impact statement due to the non-
   refundable ticket issues, see JFTR/JTR Appendix P, Part 1, Paragraph A.5.b.
8. TDY cost comparison guidance. (T-0).
   8.1. Leave in conjunction with official travel (LICWO) – Travel by commercial air for TDY
   with leave en route. Compare actual airline cost (include leave en route cost) to the
   government General Services Administration (GSA) City Pair Fare cost for the official
   authorized travel, pay the lesser of the two. Per diem is only allowed for the ordered travel.
   The AF DTS business rules, chapter 7, contain the detailed information for input into DTS.
   Obtain the government air fare cost by using the GSA City Pair Fare website at
   http://cpsearch.fas.gsa.gov/, use the discounted unrestricted fare (YCA) rate. If no GSA
   City Pair Fare exists in the market, obtain the airfare cost in the DTS booking module or by
   calling the CTO.
   8.2. Privately owned vehicle (POV) travel for the traveler’s personal convenience –
   Compare the round trip mileage to the government GSA City Pair Fare cost for the official
   authorized travel, pay the lesser of the two. The only other cost that may be added when
   completing the cost comparison is the CTO fee. The only per diem authorized for the travel
   days is the one (1) day of travel to and from the TDY point (a total of two travel days which
   are paid ¾ day per diem each). Chapter 8 of the AF DTS business rules has detailed
   information and examples on completing the constructive cost worksheet. Obtain the official
   mileage from the Defense Table of Distances (DTOD) by logging into DTS,
   Administrative>Calculate Distance. Obtain the air fare cost by using the GSA City Pair Fare
   website at http://cpsearch.fas.gsa.gov/, use the YCA rate. If no GSA City Pair Fare exists
   in the market, obtain the airfare cost in the DTS booking module or by calling the CTO.
   8.3. Mixed Mode transportation is explained in Paragraph U3025 E. of the JFTR (military)
   and Paragraph C3025 E. of the JTR (civilians) as follows: When a member travels partly by
   POV for personal convenience, and common carrier at personal expense, the member is
   authorized: Appropriate TDY mileage plus per diem for the distance traveled by POV, plus
   transportation cost purchased with personal funds and per diem for actual travel. The total
   amount is limited to the cost had government procured transportation been used, plus per
   diem for constructed travel time for the official distance of the ordered travel. A USAFA
   example of the mixed mode travel is available at Attachment 6, Figure A6.1.
 6                                                               USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014


9. Reduced Rate of Per Diem USAFA Combat Survival Training (Saylor Park). (T-0).
     9.1. IAW the provision of paragraph U4095 of the JFTR, a reduced per diem rate is
     established for the 366th Training Group instructors and support personnel performing
     temporary duty to remote field survival training courses at current and future off station
     training areas to include Combat Survival Training at USAFA. The daily rate of per diem for
     meals and incidentals is $29. See SAF/MRM Memorandum dated 25 August 2008 at
     Attachment 7, Figure A7.1.
10. Wire Transfer Guidance – Funds Outgoing to Foreign Countries. (T-3).
     10.1. Follow this guidance when a wire transfer option is being requested by a USAFA
     organization through USAFA/FM for disbursement of funds to a foreign country. This
     support is limited to transportation, meals, lodging, registration fees or other required fees for
     cadets and the military or civilian sponsors traveling with cadets under a language immersion
     or similar program on DTS TDY orders.
     10.2. The requesting USAFA organization shall prepare a Standard Form (SF) 1034, Public
     Voucher for Purchase and Services other than Personal, providing the disbursement
     information, and support documentation to HQ USAFA Financial Management Analysis
     (FMA) and the HQ USAFA Deputy Disbursing Officer (DDO) seven (7) working days prior
     to the requested date of payment. The SF 1034 completed by the USAFA organization shall
     include: The bank name and complete mailing address, the American Bankers Association
     (ABA) number, if applicable, the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial
     Telecommunication (SWIFT) identifier code and the account number to include the name of
     the account holder. The following support documentation shall be attached to or included on
     the SF 1034.
        10.2.1. The TDY orders from DTS for all travelers involved.
        10.2.2. An itemized invoice, translated in English, from the provider of the services in
        the foreign country.
        10.2.3. A copy of the documentation from the vendor which shows the bank name and
        address, ABA number/routing number, SWIFT code (if applicable) and account number.
        10.2.4. A detailed itemized receiving report matching the invoice of the services
        provided.
        10.2.5. The AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document
        (MORD), referenced in the ‘Appropriation’ block and in the ‘Contract Number and Date’
        block of the SF 1034.
     10.3. The requesting USAFA organization shall identify if the payment will be made in
     United States (US) dollars or a foreign currency. At the top of the ‘Payee’s Name and
     Address’ block show “ITS WIRE – U.S. Dollars” or the appropriate currency, if not dollars,
     to transfer by International Treasury Services (ITS) wire.
     10.4. Please contact HQ USAFA/FMA if you need an example of a properly prepared SF
     1034. The ITS wire references are in the DoDFMR Volume 5, Chapters 11 and 12.
USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014                                                                       7


11. Conference Registration Fees. (T-0).
   11.1. TDY travelers and approving officials shall ensure the travel orders and travel
   settlement claims indicate the number of meals and nights lodging that were provided in a
   conference registration fee and the specific days they were provided. In DTS this can be
   accomplished by explaining what was included in the registration or conference fee under the
   Review/Sign tab and "other Authorizations." Select "Other (See remarks below)." Example:
   Conference registration fee approved in the amount of $400 which covers the cost of
   breakfast and lunch on 5/22/14 through 5/24/14, no evening meal provided and no lodging
   was included in the conference registration fee.
      11.1.1. The hosting conference web site or conference information sheet normally
      identifies the meals and/or lodging included in the registration fee. Approving officials
      should require the traveler to attach the appropriate information on meals and/or lodging
      included in the fee. In DTS, if the conference registration fee information is attached and
      identifies all of the required information, there is no need to include the explanation cited
      above.
      11.1.2. Conference registration fee references are available in AFI 65-103, Temporary
      Duty Orders, Chapter 2, under the instructions for preparation of TDY orders (page 24):
      Registration/Conference Fee. If a fee is required to attend federally or non-federally
      sponsored meetings, include: "Registration fee is approved on _________ (date) in the
      amount of $_______ which: (a) covers cost of ___ meals and ___ nights lodging at
      $_______ per night, (b) covers no meals or lodging. See AFI 65-601, Budget Guidance
      and Procedures, Volume 1, Chapter 4, for rules on the use of appropriated funds for
      meals and light refreshments. Registration fee guidance is also covered in the AFI 65-
      114, Travel-Policy and Procedures for Financial Services Offices and Finance Offices-
      Reserve Component, Chapter 4.
12. CBA Unit Travel Card Policy and Procedures. (T-0).
   12.1. The following is the USAFA specific CBA policy and procedure guidance and
   supplements the DoDFMR, Volume 9, Chapter 3, Paragraph 030302 regarding CBAs.
   Within the CBA structure there are two types of accounts: Transportation Accounts and Unit
   Travel Cards.
      12.1.1. CBA – Transportation Accounts. Transportation travel card accounts are issued
      to government transportation offices for use in purchasing transportation, including
      airline tickets, bus tickets, and rail tickets.
      12.1.2. CBA – Unit Travel Cards. DoD components may use unit travel cards for group
      travel requirements only when it is cost effective and in the best interest of the mission.
      Categories of travelers whose travel expenses may be charged to unit travel cards include,
      but are not limited to, new recruits and employees who do not yet have travel cards,
      prisoners, and DoD group travelers, foreign nationals participating in support of official
      DoD sponsored programs or activities. The unit account coordinator also is responsible
      for filing any disputes with the travel card contractor. Once the billing statement is
      validated, the unit account coordinator shall obtain fund certification from the cognizant
      resource management office before forwarding certified billing statements, with any
      required supporting documentation, to the designated disbursing office. Should the costs
8                                                           USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014


    exceed published travel and per diem rates, the AO approves the higher amount using an
    authorization memorandum or collects the excess amount from the traveler. Retain
    records of each travel charge card transaction (including records on associated contracts,
    reports, accounts, and invoices) in accordance with the requirements contained in
    DoDFMR Volume 5, Chapter 21 for a period of six (6) years and three (3) months.
       12.1.2.1. The Appropriated Fund (APF) Unit Travel Card may be used to charge
       travel, lodging, and/or meals. SAF/MRM approved a USAFA recommendation to
       eliminate the incidental expense portion of per diem payable to USAFA personnel
       traveling as a group in a "members traveling together" status when transportation,
       meals and lodging are provided to travelers without charge. This change was
       effective 4 September 2008. The following guidance eliminates the requirement to
       complete a manual travel settlement voucher or a DTS claim when traveling under
       these circumstances.
           12.1.2.1.1. When traveling in a “members traveling together” status and
           transportation, meals and lodging are provided without charge, normally using the
           unit CBA, prepare manual TDY orders. The orders may cover the entire fiscal
           year or individual trips. Insert the following statement in place of the accounting
           citation in the TDY orders: "Appropriated Funds are obligated for this travel
           using AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document
           (MORD) # ________. Per diem or transportation expenses are not reimbursable
           to the traveler IAW SAF/MRM letter dated 4 Sep 2008, Subject: Recommendation
           to Establish a Reduced Per Diem Rate.” HQ USAFA/FMA personnel will not
           certify fund availability or sign the TDY order as funds will not be obligated in
           the accounting system under the TDY order. Authority is AFI 65-103, item 19 b.
           (2) on page 27. The funding for these TDY trips will be on the AF Form 406 and
           obligated in the accounting system to cover the unit CBA payments. Completion
           of travel vouchers are not required when transportation, meals and lodging are
           provided without charge to any traveler. The incidental expense portion of per
           diem is not payable.
           12.1.2.1.2. When not traveling in a “members traveling together” status, DTS
           shall be used to pay the appropriate per diem entitlements for travel days. In
           addition, per diem is payable on any other days where all meals and the lodging
           cost are not provided without charge. The meal and incidental portion of per
           diem and other miscellaneous travel expenses are paid on an individual travel
           voucher in DTS.
    12.1.3. For airline reservations, provide the TDY order to the CTO for booking the travel
    arrangements and charging the unit CBA. IAW JFTR Appendix P, Part I, Paragraph
    A.5.b., any group of 10 or more passengers traveling together on the same day, on the
    same flight, for the same mission, requiring group integrity and identified as a group
    upon booking is not a mandatory user of the Government’s contract city-pair fares. A
    movement of less than 10 passengers traveling as a group falls under the GSA Airfares
    City-Pair Program contract and is a mandatory user of the City-Pair Program. The only
    City-Pair Program exceptions are listed in JFTR Appendix P, Part I, Paragraph A.6.
    Selection of other than the city-pair rates or selection of city-pair rates on groups of 10 or
    more passengers may result in a financial cost to your organization if the airline tickets
USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014                                                                     9


     are cancelled. There are restrictions that typically go along with lower commercial
     airfares or group travel of 10 or more passengers. Restrictions on discounted commercial
     airfares usually include non-refund ability, change or cancellation fees, minimum or
     maximum stay requirements or extended calendar blackout periods. The JFTR requires
     the mandatory use of the CTO to arrange official travel even when the City-Pair fares
     cannot be used.
     12.1.4. Support documentation must be attached to the unit retained copy of the CBA
     payment and include the TDY order, airline ticket receipts, lodging receipts and meal
     receipts if paid using the CBA.
     12.1.5. On APF travel, DTS shall be used to reimburse a traveler for an expense that is
     not covered by the unit CBA. In these situations, the DTS claim is submitted after travel
     has been completed. Manual travel vouchers will not be accepted for payment.
  12.2. Unit Travel Cardholder Responsibilities: The unit travel card is always issued to an
  individual and will create additional workload for that individual as the unit cardholder. Unit
  cardholders must be designated in writing by the commander/director and are accountable for
  all charges on the unit travel charge card issued in their name. The unit travel cardholder is
  responsible for reconciling and verifying the validity of all travel card charges and promptly
  providing a validated statement to the unit account coordinator, normally the unit resource
  advisor (RA). The cardholder is also responsible for providing the unit account coordinator
  supporting documents (legible receipts) for all charges on the unit card. The unit cardholder
  is legally responsible for all charges to the unit travel card and/or collection of erroneous
  and/or unauthorized charges, e.g. unofficial telephone calls, movies and any other
  unauthorized charges. When an unauthorized charge is discovered, immediately collect
  personal funds from the individual making the unauthorized charge. The cardholder will
  advise the commander/director who evaluates the situation and considers counseling or
  administrative action that may be appropriate.
     12.2.1. After completion of travel, the unit travel cardholder collects any unauthorized
     charges from the appropriate individuals and turns in any excess Automated Teller
     Machine (ATM) funds to the unit RA. Retain the copies of the ATM withdrawal slips
     and all receipts for which the money is used. Any cash withdrawals must be accounted
     for by receipts and/or refunds to the RA. Any excess cash funds must be returned to the
     RA via a Department of Defense (DD) Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher. The unit
     travel cardholder also prepares a group travel voucher, DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher
     or Subvoucher, showing the complete itinerary with attached DD Form 1351-6, Multiple
     Payments List, signed by all travelers. Travel vouchers must be completed for all TDY
     trips on routine funded TDY orders regardless if there is or is not an entitlement due to
     the traveler(s).
  12.3. Unit RA Responsibilities: The unit RA will have access and is expected to use the
  Electronic Access System (EAS) for viewing charges, printing invoices and ensuring
  payments are posted. The unit RA must complete AF Form 406 and submit with the initial
  CBA application request. Funds shall be certified by HQ USAFA/FMA before any charges
  are allowed on the unit card(s). This initial AF Form 406 should identify the total dollar
  amount you anticipate spending on all of your unit cards quarterly each fiscal year. The
  initial AF Form 406 is then used as the call register to track payments and any necessary
10                                                          USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014


  increases. Upon receipt of the invoice from Citi Bank, the unit account coordinator
  reconciles and certifies the charges appearing on the summary account monthly statement,
  which is a composite (rollup) of all charges from all cards and accounts assigned to that
  organization. Immediately forward the certified invoice and the receiving report to the HQ
  USAFA/FMA Office. HQ USAFA/FMA will forward the invoice to the Defense Finance
  and Accounting Service (DFAS) field site for payment. Certified copies of the invoices and
  supporting documentation must be retained at the unit level for audit purposes. Always pay
  the current charges less any credits on the invoice received from the travel card contractor.
  The unit account coordinator then disputes any erroneous charges with the travel card
  contractor (currently Citi Bank). Reconciling the invoices after the bill certification rather
  than before certification speeds up the payment process and helps prevent prompt payment
  act interest penalty payments. In addition, any erroneous and/or unauthorized charges made
  to the card, (e.g., movie rental in hotel room, unauthorized phone calls, long distance
  surcharges, etc.), and any excess ATM advance monies must be collected from the
  appropriate individual immediately. Each trip must be finalized for audit purposes. Excess
  monies from one trip cannot be used or carried forward for use on a future trip. The DD
  Form 1131 is used to record the collection using the same appropriation cited on the AF
  Form 406 held by HQ USAFA/FMA. The unit RA will make deposits with the USAFA
  Armed Forces Bank. Supporting documentation (itemized receipts, bank invoices, expense
  summaries, travel orders and travel vouchers) must be maintained at the unit level for audit
  purposes. The unit coordinator will retain records of each travel charge card transaction for a
  period of six (6) years and three (3) months in accordance with DoDFMR Volume 5, Chapter
  21.
  12.4. The unit commander/director appoints a unit cardholder in writing and has them sign
  this policy and procedures guidance acknowledging their responsibilities. Retain the signed
  acknowledgement on file with the appointment letter. Unit commanders must also ensure the
  unit card invoices are properly validated and paid promptly. Interest penalties incurred due
  to the fault of the unit will be charged to the unit. Unit commanders should consider
  appropriate disciplinary action on any unauthorized charges or misuse of the unit travel card.




                                           FRANK R. VERDUGO, Lt Col, USAF
                                           Director, Financial Management and Comptroller
USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014                                                                 11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement, 27 October 2004
AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms Management, 25 September 2013
AFI 65-103, Temporary Duty Orders, 5 August 2005
AFI 65-601, Budget Guidance and Procedures, 16 Aug 2012
AFI 65-114, Travel-Policy and Procedures for Financial Services Offices and Finance Offices-
Reserve Component, 26 August 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 65-1, Management of Financial Services, 1 July 1996
DoDFMR, Department of Defense Financial Management Regulations, 1 February 2014
JFTR, Joint Federal Travel Regulations, 1 April 2014
JTR, Joint Travel Regulations, 1 April 2014
Prescribed Forms
USAFA Form 121, TDY Request Worksheet
USAFA Form 128, Constructive Travel Cost Comparison Worksheet – Authorization
Adopted Forms
AF Form 406, Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 1131, Cash Collection Voucher
DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Subvoucher
DD Form 1351-6, Multiple Payment List
SF 1034, Public Voucher for Purchase and Services other than Personal

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABA—American Bankers Association
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFS—Air Force Station
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
 12                                                USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014


AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFS—Air Force Station
AFSPC—Air Force Space Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AO—Approving Official
APF—Appropriated Fund
ATM—Automated Teller Machine
CBA—Centrally Billed Account
CC—Commander
CTO—Commercial Travel Office
DD—Defense Department
DDO—Deputy Disbursing Officer
DFAS—Defense Finance and Accounting Service
DoD—Department of Defense
DoDFMR—Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation
DTOD—Defense Table of Distances
DTS—Defense Travel System
FM—Financial Management
FMA—Financial Management Analysis
FCA—Fund Cite Authorization
GSA—General Services Administration
HQ—Headquarters
IAW—In Accordance With
ITS—International Treasury Services
JFTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulations
JTR—Joint Travel Regulation
LICWO—Leave in conjunction with official travel
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
MORD—Miscellaneous Obligation/Reimbursement Document
MRM—Force Management and Personnel
NAF—Nonappropriated Fund
USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014                                          13


OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
PPD—Proportional Per Diem
RA—Resource Advisor
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SAF—Secretary of the Air Force
SF—Standard Form
SWIFT—Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication
TDY—Temporary Duty
US—United States
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
YCA—Discounted Unrestricted Fare
 14                                                 USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014


                                   Attachment 2
      REDUCED RATE OF PER DIEM FOR SPORTS TEAMS AND CLUB TRAVEL

Figure A2.1. SAF/MRM Approval of Special Rate of Per Diem.
USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014                                                      15


                                     Attachment 3
                               LOCAL AREA TRAVEL

Figure A3.1. AFSPC/CC Definition of Local Area for Official Travel, 3 Mar 14.
16   USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014
USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014   17
 18                                                 USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014


Figure A3.2. HQ USAFA/CV Local Area Reimbursement Policy – Every Dollar Counts, 18
Apr 14.
USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014   19
20   USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014
USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014                                                            21


                                    Attachment 4
     SUBSISTENCE OF USAFA CADETS WHILE TDY TO OTHER AIR FORCE
                           INSTALLATIONS

Figure A4.1. USAFA Cadets Authorized to Eat Without Charge in AF Dining Facilities.
22   USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014
USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014                        23


                                  Attachment 5
                          PROPORTIONAL PER DIEM

Figure A5.1. USAFA Meal Option Guide.
24                                              USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014


                                Attachment 6
                    TDY COST COMPARISON GUIDANCE

Figure A6.1. EXAMPLE – USAFA Mixed Modes Travel for TDY.
USAFAI65-103 6 AUGUST 2014                                   25


                                   Attachment 7
REDUCED RATE OF PER DIEM USAFA COMBAT SURVIVAL TRAINING (SAYLOR
                             PARK)

Figure A7.1. SAF/MRM Approval of Special Rate of Per Diem.
