BY ORDER OF THE                                              HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                               ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 23-202

                                                                                 21 MARCH 2012

                                                                            Materiel Management

                                                        USAF ACADEMY CADET LOGISTICS
                                                                             FLIGHT

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 10 LRS/LGRCI                                                     Certified by: 10 LRS/LGRC
                                                                               (Mr. Eddie Bustos)
Supersedes:    USAFAI23-202,                                                             Pages: 5
               10 February 1999


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 23-1, Materiel Management,
and directs the USAF Academy 10th Logistics Readiness Squadron Cadet Logistics Flight
(10 LRS/LGRC) regarding authorized patrons, sales restrictions, credits, inventories, and
provided services. It applies to United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) agencies and
individuals who receive or purchase items/services from the Cadet Logistics Flight. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units or the Air National
Guard (ANG). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363), Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a
glossary of references and supporting information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This revision
corrects office symbols. Changes process and corrects form number used for organizational
purchases. Eliminates and/or defines authorized customers. Replaces requirements for Falcon
Card use with use of the currently issued Cadet Area Proximity Card (Proxy Card).
1. What Cadet Logistics Does. Cadet Logistics (10 LRS/LGRC) provides USAFA cadets with
individual issued equipment, uniforms, uniform accessories, and other required items as
 2                                                           USAFAI23-202 21 MARCH 2012


established by the Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW) and the Superintendent
(HQ USAFA/CC).
2. Who Is Authorized. The USAF Academy Cadets are authorized customers of Cadet
Logistics. Cadets validate purchases and equipment loans with their personal identification PIN
number. Validated transactions serve as support to debiting the cadet’s pay record. At the time
of purchase, cadets may receive a record of their purchases if they notify the sales clerk of this
option. Under the USAFA Division of the Air Force Stock Fund Charter, revised 10 APR 1995,
the USAFA Superintendent may designate other lawful patrons of Cadet Logistics.
     2.1. USAFA Activities. The following USAFA activities may purchase indicated items
     from the Cadet Issue Section subject to their own governing directives and availability of
     stock:

 USAFA CW/CC, Commandant of Cadets             May authorize cadet distinctive items to be
                                               purchased by designated individuals as required

 Director of Protocol, USAFA/DSP               Miscellaneous USAFA Cadet-distinctive items

 AAFES Clothing Sales                          Common uniforms to support Prep School

 Other organizations and/or individuals as
 directed by the Superintendent of the USAF
 Academy and/or the Accountable Officer


        2.1.1. How Organizations Pay. The 10th Logistics Readiness Squadron, Cadet Issue
        (10 LRS/LGRCI) releases purchases only upon receipt of a proper money order or a valid
        SF 1080, Voucher for Transfer between Appropriations and/or Funds.
            2.1.1.1. Cadet activities, clubs, and squadrons must pay by money order, payable to
            US Department of Treasury (Academy Div AFWCF).
            2.1.1.2. USAFA organizations will prepare a SF 1080, signed by the appropriate
            wing-level Resource Advisor. Financial Management & Comptroller (USAFA/FM)
            will ensure funds are properly transferred between the listed lines of accounting.
     2.2. Authorized Individual Customers (other than USAFA Cadets). Authorized individuals
     are not permitted to purchase noncadet-distinctive items such as the Airman Battle Uniform
     (ABU) or combat boots available from other sources (Clothing Sales, AAFES). The
     following individuals may be authorized limited purchasing privileges:
        2.2.1. Visiting Dignitaries must coordinate their requests with Protocol
        (HQ USAFA/DSP). The HQ USAFA/DSP initiates a memorandum requesting sale,
        obtains approval from the Commandant of Cadets (USAFA/CW), and forwards the
        memorandum through the Directorate of Training Support (USAFA/CWT) to the
        Director, 10 LRS. Upon approval, the purchaser will provide 10 LRS/LGRCI a money
        order in the amount of purchase payable to the US Department of Treasury (Academy
        Div AFWCF).
USAFAI23-202 21 MARCH 2012                                                                         3


       2.2.2. The Association of Graduates (AOG) is the authorized agent for its members to
       purchase items distinctive to cadets, including sabers. The AOG ensures that a member’s
       request meets all their established guidelines and coordinates with 10 LRS/LGRC to
       schedule purchases.
       2.2.3. The AAFES Clothing Sales will pay by check to US Department of Treasury
       (Academy Div AFWCF) for common uniform items to support USAFA Preparatory
       School requirements, subject to the availability of excess stock.
3. Sabers. First Class Cadets may purchase up to three sabers per cadet. Cadets may only
purchase sabers by money order payable to US Department of Treasury (Academy Div
AFWCF).
   3.1. Mandatory Issues. The items provided by Cadet Issue are mandatory issue items. Cadet
   Issue is the mandatory source of supply for mandatory issue items. Cadets will be scheduled
   for mandatory issues via Cadet Scheduling notification, or through Cadet announcements or
   published flyers distributed by USAFA/CW personnel. Cadets who fail to report for
   mandatory issues may be reported to USAFA/CW leadership for appropriate action.
   3.2. Flight Equipment. Issue of flight equipment is restricted to Cadets and authorized
   USAFA personnel and only when supporting approved Academy programs or courses. All
   equipment is issued on loan and must be returned within 3 days of the program or course
   completion date established at the time of issue. Cadets who fail to return loan items by
   established return date will be identified to USAFA/CW for appropriate action and/or
   charged for the item(s).
4. Credits and Exchanges. Sales from 10 LRS/LGRCI to First, Second and Third Class Cadets
and/or other individuals and groups may not be returned for credit. Fourth Class Cadets and
administrative turn-backs departing the Academy may return for credit any item which is new,
has not been worn or used, is unmarked, and has not been laundered or altered. Packaged items
must be returned in the original wrapping, packaging, or container. No credit is authorized for
return of special or made-to-order uniform items including parade uniforms, mess dress
uniforms, personalized T-shirts, and officer service dress uniforms. Credit for return of personal
items (i.e., personal hygiene items, underwear, athletic supporters, etc.) will only be authorized if
the items are returned in the original sealed container and have not been used. Items with
manufacturing defects will be exchanged.
   4.1. Overcoats. Cadets may be eligible to participate in the overcoat “buy-back” program.
   Cadets may return overcoats prior to graduation for a portion of purchase value. Credit
   returns are contingent upon dry cleaning requirements and the full serviceability of the
   overcoat at the time of return. Specific cleaning and return policies will be communicated
   prior to the beginning of the “buy-back” period each year. Minimally, overcoats must have
   all required repairs made, be recently dry cleaned (cleaning tag must still be attached and
   overcoat must be in the dry-cleaning plastic), and pass inspection for serviceability.
   4.2. Exchange Policy. Uniform items may be exchanged for another, properly sized item
   provided exchange is made within thirty days of purchase and only if the items have not been
   worn, marked, laundered, or altered. Only the Accountable Officer and/or the Academy
   Division AFWCF Manager may approve returns for credit for any other reason not explicitly
   defined in this instruction. Items must not show any sign of use and must be in original
 4                                                          USAFAI23-202 21 MARCH 2012


     containers. To exchange initial issue items (In-Processing), Cadets must abide by the
     schedule outlined in the Basic Cadet Training (BCT) master schedule. Additional exchanges
     may be made through Transition Week. Items issued on a supplementary basis (that is,
     subsequent issues) to Fourth Class Cadets may be exchanged within five business days from
     issue. Items sold to First, Second or Third Class Cadets through the Cadet Issue
     Replacement Store may be exchanged upon validation of purchase (i.e., purchase verified by
     query of the Cadet’s account). Exchanges are authorized only if the item has not been worn,
     altered, laundered, and contains no markings.
5. Recommending Uniform Changes. Forward any recommended uniform changes by
memorandum through USAFA/CW and 10 LRS. If the requested change is approved at these
levels, 10th Logistics Readiness Squadron Cadet Uniforms Section (10 LRS/LGRCU) will add
the item to the agenda for the next scheduled USAFA Cadet Uniform Board meeting.
6. Using the Cadet Area Proximity Card (Proxy Card). A valid proxy card is required for all
Cadet transactions. Lost, defective, or damaged cards must be replaced in a timely manner.
Cadets may use their Social Security Number and PIN to authorize purchases in the Cadet
Replacement Store; however, time will not permit this alternative during major issues. Cadets
are required to have a valid proxy card displayed IAW applicable USAFA regulations to enter
the Cadet Issue area.




                                             JAMES D. JEFFERS, GS-14, DAFC
                                             Director, 10th Logistics Readiness Squadron
USAFAI23-202 21 MARCH 2012                                         5


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 23-1, Material Management, 15 February 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
SF1080, Voucher for Transfer between Appropriations and/or Funds

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ABU—Airman Battle Uniform
AF—Air Force
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
AFWCF—Air Force Working Capital Funds
ANG—Air National Guard
AOG—Association of Graduates
BCT—Basic Cadet Training
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
