BY ORDER OF THE                                            HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                            ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3516

                                                                          3 NOVEMBER 2010
                                                           Certified Current 19 November 2012
                                                                                    Personnel

                                                     USAF ACADEMY ATHLETIC HALL OF
                                                      EXCELLENCE AND HALL OF FAME




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFA/ADIH                                                       Certified by: USAFA/ADI
Supersedes: USAFAI 36-3516,                                               (Mr. Troy J. Garnhart)
            18 March 2009                                                               Pages: 9


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy. This instruction establishes the Directorate of Athletics (USAFA/AD) policies and
procedures for the management of the Athletic Hall of Excellence. This instruction also
prescribes the policy and procedures for the nomination and selection process for the USAF
Academy (USAFA) Athletic Hall of Fame and the subsequent induction ceremony. This
instruction applies to all USAFA graduates who earned a varsity intercollegiate letter and
USAFA military and civilian personnel, contract coaches and staff. This publication does not
apply to US Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard or Civil Air Patrol. Refer recommended
changes and conflicts between this and other publications to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records     Disposition     Schedule     (RDS)      located    at    https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates the OPR and Certifying Authority’s information (Header), updates office
symbols and titles throughout the publication due to the restructuring of the Directorate of
Athletics, updates the nomination eligibility to the Athletic Hall of Fame (Paragraphs 2.1.1.1.1
 2                                                      USAFAI36-3516 3 NOVEMBER 2010


and 2.1.1.2.1), updates when the Athletic Hall of Fame Selection Committee will meet
(Paragraph 2.1.2), and updates the voting procedures (Paragraphs 2.1.3.2.1, 2.1.3.2.2,
2.1.3.2.4 and 2.1.3.3).
1. Athletic Hall of Excellence. The Athletic Hall of Excellence, a 5,000 square foot exhibit
area featuring 31 exhibits and a 24-seat theater, showcases how athletics directly impacts
USAFA graduates as future leaders for the nation. The Athletic Hall of Excellence is located on
the main entrance to the Falcon Athletic Center, Building 2168. The theme of the Athletic Hall
of Excellence is ―
                 Air Force Athletics ... Tomorrow’s leaders forged through competition today.”
     1.1. The Director of the Athletic Hall of Excellence (USAFA/ADIH) is responsible for the
     overall management of the Athletic Hall of Excellence. Responsibilities include policy
     development; maintenance of the artifact inventory donated or owned by the Directorate of
     Athletics; ensuring all exhibits are current and well maintained; and developing a marketing
     plan to promote the Athletic Hall of Excellence to the USAFA, the Air Force and the nation.
     1.2. The Director of Athletics makes policy decisions regarding the Athletic Hall of
     Excellence based on the recommendations from the Hall of Excellence Committee. The Hall
     of Excellence Committee is chaired by the Vice Director of Athletics (USAFA/ADV); voting
     members are: Senior Associate Athletic Director for External Operations (USAFA/ADE);
     Associate Athletic Director of Intercollegiate Programs and Senior Women’s Administrator
     (USAFA/ADPW); Deputy Director of Athletics (USAFA/ADP); Associate Athletic Director
     for Support (USAFA/ADS); Associate Athletic Director for Sports Medicine
     (USAFA/ADSM); Associate Athletic Director for Recruiting Support (USAFA/ADR); and
     the Associate Athletic Director for Development and Community/Government Relations
     (USAFA/ADG).
        1.2.1. Paragraph 1.2.1.1. below contains the factors the Directorate of Athletics uses to
        determine which USAFA graduates, coaches, and/or staff are eligible for entry into one
        or more of the Athletic Hall of Excellence exhibits. These factors were recommended by
        the Hall of Excellence Committee and approved by the Director of Athletics as Hall of
        Excellence policy in 2003.
            1.2.1.1. To be considered for inclusion into the Athletic Hall of Excellence, an
            individual must be a graduate from the USAFA, earned a varsity letter, and meet at
            least one of the standards outlined in Table 1 below:
USAFAI36-3516 3 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                  3


Table 1. Athletic Hall of Excellence Standards.
 General Officers who earned a varsity letter(s)
 Astronauts who earned a varsity letter(s)
 All-American in their respective sport
 National Champion
 Bowl Champion
 Academic Hall of Fame Recipients
 Athletic Achievement – Varsity letter winners who played on the professional level, Olympians,
 and members of the World Class Athlete Program
 Chief Executive Officers (CEO), Political Leaders and Business Leaders
 First Team National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) All-American in their respective
 sport
 An NCAA-Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW) Championship
 An NCAA-AIAW top six finish
 World, American or NCAA-AIAW record performance
 NCAA Statistical Champion
 National academic honors while competing as an athlete
 Conference Player-of-the-Year
 Lettered in four different varsity sports
 School Record Holder
 Conference Record Holder
2. Athletic Hall of Fame. The Athletic Hall of Fame is a program independent of the Athletic
Hall of Excellence. The Athletic Hall of Fame honors former intercollegiate athletes for
significant achievements and contributions to the intercollegiate team program during their cadet
career and their achievements as leaders of character for the Air Force, the DoD and the nation
upon commissioning. Former athletic administrators of the intercollegiate program, coaches and
support staff may also be honored for extraordinary achievements. Inductees into the Athletic
Hall of Fame will be honored with a plaque on the ―         Walk of Honor,‖ recognizing their
distinguished achievements. The ―  Walk of Honor‖ is located on the fourth floor of the Falcon
Athletic Center.
   2.1. Athletic Hall of Fame Nomination and Selection Process.
       2.1.1. Each individual must meet the criteria in one or more of the following nomination
       categories: Intercollegiate Athlete, Intercollegiate Athlete Leadership, Intercollegiate
       Coaches, or Athletic Administrators and Support Staff. Criteria for each category are as
       follows:
           2.1.1.1. Intercollegiate Athlete Category.
              2.1.1.1.1. Graduates who earned at least two athletic varsity letters, not
              necessarily in the same sport, and who graduated at least 5 years before
              nomination are eligible for nomination into the Athletic Hall of Fame.
              Nominations are based on any one of the criteria listed in Table 2 below.
 4                                                       USAFAI36-3516 3 NOVEMBER 2010


Table 2. Intercollegiate Athlete Nomination Criteria.
 First team National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)
 All-American in their respective sport
 Olympic medal winner
 U.S. Olympic team member
 Succeeded as a professional athlete or in the World Class Athlete program
 An NCAA-Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW) Championship
 An NCAA-AIAW top six finish
 World, American or NCAA-AIAW record performance
 An NCAA statistical champion
 National academic honors while competing as an athlete
 Conference Player-of-the-Year
 First-team All Conference
 Lettered in four different varsity sports
 School record holder
 Conference record holder
               2.1.1.1.2. The nominee must possess, and shall have possessed, such qualities as
               sportsmanship, character and integrity.
           2.1.1.2. Intercollegiate Leadership Category.
               2.1.1.2.1. Graduates who earned at least two athletic letters, not necessarily in the
               same sport, and who graduated at least 5 years before nomination are eligible for
               nomination into the Athletic Hall of Fame. Nominations are based on any one of
               the criteria listed in Table 3 below.

Table 3. Intercollegiate Athlete Leadership Nomination Criteria.
 Made a significant contribution as a military officer
 Made a significant contribution to private industry in a post-military career
 Made a significant contribution in the public sector in a post-military career
               2.1.1.2.2. The nominee must possess, and shall have possessed, such qualities as
               sportsmanship, character and integrity.
           2.1.1.3. Intercollegiate Coaches Category.
               2.1.1.3.1. Coaches who achieved outstanding success and rendered extraordinary
               service and leadership to the athletic program in their sport at the USAFA are
               eligible for the Athletic Hall of Fame. All criteria and qualifications are based
               upon the candidate’s participation while serving at the USAFA. Nominations are
               based on the criteria listed in Table 4 below.
USAFAI36-3516 3 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                  5


Table 4. Intercollegiate Coaches Nomination Criteria.
 Career record
 National titles
 Conference Coach-of-the-Year
 National top-20 rankings
 Development of program
 National achievements such as, Coach-of-the-Year, President of national coaches association, etc.
 Developer of student-athletes
 Number of conference and/or national championships in individual sports
 Number of Olympians and/or World, American or NCAA-AIAW record setters
 Number of All-Americans
 Length of distinguished service
              2.1.1.3.2. The nominee must possess, and shall have possessed, such qualities as
              sportsmanship, character and integrity.
              2.1.1.3.3. Intercollegiate coaches are eligible for nomination into the Athletic
              Hall of Fame as long as they meet the requirements listed in Table 4 above and
              have been at least 5 years removed as a USAFA coach before nomination.
           2.1.1.4. Athletic Administrators and Support Staff Category.
              2.1.1.4.1. Former athletic administrators and USAFA support staff who achieved
              outstanding success and rendered extraordinary service or leadership to the
              USAFA intercollegiate program are eligible for the Athletic Hall of Fame. All
              criteria and qualifications are based upon the candidate’s participation while
              supporting the USAFA’s intercollegiate athletic program. Nominations are based
              on the criteria listed in Table 5 below.

Table 5. Athletic Administrators and Staff Nomination Criteria.
 Direction of the overall program during their administration
 Facility Development
 Programs started and/or developed
 National achievements and involvement such as, NCAA-AIAW and conference service,
 professional associations, awards, honors, etc.
 Length of distinguished service
              2.1.1.4.2. The nominee must possess, and shall have possessed, such qualities as
              sportsmanship, character and integrity.
              2.1.1.4.3. There is a 5-year eligibility waiting period for former administrators
              and staff as long as they meet any one of the criteria listed in Table 5 above.
       2.1.2. An annual screening of new inductees for entry into the Athletic Hall of Fame will
       be the responsibility of the Athletic Hall of Fame Selection Committee. The Committee
       shall be chaired by the Director of Athletics and will be comprised of the following: Vice
       Athletic Director (USAFA/ADV); Senior Associate Athletic Director for External
       Operations (USAFA/ADE); Associate Athletic Director of Intercollegiate Programs and
6                                                     USAFAI36-3516 3 NOVEMBER 2010


    Senior Women’s Administrator (USAFA/ADPW); Deputy Director of Athletics
    (USAFA/ADP);         Associate     Athletic    Director    for     Development     and
    Community/Government Relations (USAFA/ADG); a team officer representative with
    more than 5 years of experience from the Dean of Faculty (HQ USAFA/DF); a senior
    officer representative from the Commandant of Cadets (HQ USAFA/CW); and the
    NCAA Faculty Representative. The President of the Association of Graduates (AOG) or
    his or her designated representative may serve as an advisor to the Committee, but may
    not render a vote. The Committee will meet to select new Athletic Hall of Fame
    inductees during the fall semester of the academic year for a May induction. Induction
    ceremonies will be held every 2 years.
    2.1.3. The Athletics Information and Communications Office (USAFA/ADI) and the
    Director of the Hall of Excellence (USAFA/ADIH) shall submit a comprehensive list of
    nominees to the Selection Committee by 15 August of each calendar year. The initial list
    of nominees will detail all cadet athletes, coaches and administrators who meet the
    nomination criteria as outlined in each category. The nominees will be a result of
    research done by USAFA/ADI and USAFA/ADIH. The listing of nominees will reflect
    those who meet more than one criteria item in any of the nomination categories.
       2.1.3.1. The Selection Committee shall make any requests for clarification of
       information from USAFA/ADI and USAFA/ADIH.
       2.1.3.2. Voting Procedures.
           2.1.3.2.1. Each Committee member shall select a maximum of 12 names from the
           comprehensive list of nominees. These names will be submitted in writing
           (unsigned ballots) to the Committee Chair no later than 30 Sep each academic
           year for the selection process. Each time a nominee occurs on a ballot, he or she
           will be awarded one point. A minimum of four points are required for any name
           to be included on the final nomination list.
           2.1.3.2.2. Names with four points or more will comprise the final nomination list
           following each ballot. From the seven voting members on the Committee, a two-
           thirds (2/3) majority must occur on each member selected for induction. This
           procedure shall be repeated until a final list of five names is produced.
           2.1.3.2.3. In the event more than five names qualify following a ballot, the names
           with the least amount of points shall be dropped from the list. If there is a tie in
           points, the tie shall be broken by a Committee vote; if the Committee members
           are not able to break the tie, the Committee Chair will make the final decision.
           2.1.3.2.4. All voting will be by either written ballots or confidential e-mails to the
           Committee Chair and the Director of the Hall of Fame (USAFA/ADIH).
           2.1.3.2.5. The Committee may request additional information on the individuals
           on the final nomination list from USAFA/ADI and/or USAFA/ADIH prior to
           their final vote.
           2.1.3.2.6. The nominee selection list will be given to the Committee Chair. The
           Committee Chair will forward the list of nominees to the USAFA Memorial
           Board for review. Upon review, the Memorial Board will forward the nomination
USAFAI36-3516 3 NOVEMBER 2010                                                                7


             list to the Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC) for final approval. The ballots and all
             associated selection documentation will be destroyed after approval by HQ
             USAFA/CC.
             2.1.3.2.7. The approval process must be completed NLT 15 October each
             calendar year. The list of individuals selected will be announced in a formal news
             release, which will include brief biographies on each inductee.
         2.1.3.3. A formal dinner for induction into the Athletic Hall of Fame honoring the
         inductees will be held on a designated date during the spring semester. An induction
         ceremony will follow the dinner recognizing each individual for his or her
         achievements. USAFA/ADIH is the designated Point of Contact (POC) for the
         induction ceremony. The cost for the inductees’ travel, lodging, dinner and
         mementos will be funded through corporate sponsorships and revenue raised from the
         dinner and ceremony ticket sales. Meals for inductees are authorized IAW AFI 34-
         201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds.
         2.1.3.4. Nominations of non-selected individuals will be held for reconsideration in
         subsequent years. Significant new information for a previous nominee should be
         added to update their file.
  2.2. Athletic Hall of Fame Timeline. The timeline for the selection and induction process is
  as follows:
     2.2.1. NLT August 15th – Comprehensive list of eligible Athletic Hall of Fame
     candidates will be submitted to Selection Committee.
     2.2.2. NLT August 30th – Selection Committee will make any and/or all requests for
     clarification of eligible list and produce a list of 12 names for consideration.
     2.2.3. NLT September 30th – Selection of five inductees is made. Date is determined
     when formal induction will take place.
     2.2.4. NLT October 30th – All inductees are notified of their selection and the selection
     is made public. Initiate plaque design with suitable company.
     2.2.5. NLT November 15th – Meeting with selected USAFA/AD personnel (Athletics
     Information and Communications [USAFA/ADI], Events Management [USAFA/ADSU],
     Development and Community/Government Relations [USAFA/ADG], Hall of Excellence
     [USAFA/ADIH], and Athletic Ticket Office [USAFA/ADET]) to plan and/or coordinate
     induction ceremony. Receive induction ceremony plaques.
     2.2.6. NLT January 15th – All photographs and/or video clips on each inductee are
     collected in order to produce induction ceremony video. USAFA/ADG provides a
     preliminary list of corporate sponsors. USAFA/ADET begins sales of induction
     ceremony tickets.
     2.2.7. NLT February 1st – Meeting with selected USAFA/AD personnel to discuss all
     arrangements for inductees (travel to USAFA, lodging, etc.). Develop induction
     ceremony program.
     2.2.8. NLT May 30th – Complete induction ceremony.
 8                                                      USAFAI36-3516 3 NOVEMBER 2010


3. Prescribed or Adopted Forms.
     3.1. Prescribed Forms: No prescribed forms were prescribed in the publication.
     3.2. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                             DR. HANS J. MUEH
                                             Director of Athletics
USAFAI36-3516 3 NOVEMBER 2010                                9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 34-201, Use of Nonappropriated Funds
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFAAA—Air Force Academy Athletic Association
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AIAW—Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women
AOG—Association of Graduates
NCAA—National Collegiate Athletic Association
NLT—No Later Than
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
USAF—United States Air Force
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFAI—United States Air Force Academy Instruction
