BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                           UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                          INSTRUCTION 51-710
EUROPE                                                 ARMY IN EUROPE REGULATION 550-33
                                                       COMMANDER NAVY REGION EUROPE,
                                                              AFRICA, SOUTHWEST ASIA
                                                                  INSTRUCTION 5840.17A

                                                                               27 SEPTEMBER 2013

                                                                                                    Law

                                                       LOCAL CURRENCY, MOTOR VEHICLES
                                                        AND RELATED PRIVILEGES FOR U.S.
                                                      PERSONNEL IN THE UNITED KINGDOM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: USAFE-UK/JA                                                        Certified by: HQ USAFE/JAI
                                                                           (Mr. Randy L. Harshman)
Supersedes:     USAFEI51-710, 11 March 2004                                                Pages: 11


This instruction implements AFPD 51-7, International Law. It establishes prohibitions
concerning the disposition of duty-free personal property, the possession of excess quantities of
tobacco, liquor and gasoline, and the acquisition and disposition of local currency except as
provided in this regulation. It outlines requirements concerning the registration of firearms, and
licensing of drivers and provides a basis for punitive action under the Uniform Code of Military
Justice (UCMJ) for US Air Force military personnel or administrative action, to include possible
revocation of all duty-free privileges for military and civilian personnel. This regulation applies
to United States Air Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air National Guard Units of the
United States, and personnel according to paragraph 1.1. This publication also applies to all Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units and AFRC personnel present in the UK to perform
official duties. Certain provisions of this instruction are punitive. Violations of the specific
prohibitions in paragraphs and related subparagraphs 2.2., 3.1.1., 3.2.1., 3.3., 4.1., 4.2.1., 4.2.2.,
4.2.4., the last sentence of 6.1.2., 6.1.3., 6.2.1., and 6.2.4. of this instruction by military personnel
may result in prosecution under Article 92(1) and, or Article 134 of the Uniform Code of
Military Justice (UCMJ). Civilian personnel are subject to disciplinary action (including loss of
logistic support privileges) for violations of these paragraphs according to applicable service
regulations on civilian misconduct and adverse administrative actions. Civilians may also be
subject to criminal prosecution by the host nation for violation of host nation laws. Supplements
 2                                                      USAFEI51-710 27 SEPTEMBER 2013


will not lessen the requirements nor change the basic content or intent of this instruction.
Process supplements in accordance with (IAW) AFI 33-360, Publications and Forms
Management. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of
Primary Responsibility (OPR) using Air Force (AF) Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Changes in United Kingdom law and modifications and amendments to bilateral international
agreements between the United States and the United Kingdom required changes to paragraph 4
and subordinate paragraphs on control of firearms and to paragraph 5.2. on gasoline and
kerosene. The title of the Instruction has been expanded to better reflect its content. This
instruction supersedes all previous regulations on this topic.
1. General
     1.1. Applicability. This directive applies to all US military personnel, Department of
     Defense civilian personnel, and their dependents in the UK. US military personnel and their
     dependents assigned or attached to US diplomatic and consular offices in the UK also will be
     governed by directives published by their chief of diplomatic mission or consular office.
     1.2. Background. The importation and sale of personal property and the acquisition,
     importation, operation, and sale of motor vehicles is controlled by the North Atlantic Treaty
     Organization, Status of Forces Agreement (NATO SOFA), bilateral implementing
     agreements, applicable local law, and US military directives.
     1.3. Definition of Terms. As referred to in this publication, the following terms shall have
     the meaning indicated:
        1.3.1. Authorized Person. Those personnel and their dependents listed in paragraph 1.1.
        who are stationed in or are on official duty in the UK unless otherwise specifically
        excluded by a provision of this regulation.
        1.3.2. Authorized Agencies. Activities operated and controlled by the US Forces
        including non-appropriated fund activities.
        1.3.3. Authorized Banks. Financial institutions, including military banking facilities,
        authorized by the UK to exchange currency.
        1.3.4. Military Finance Offices. Accounting and finance offices, including disbursing
        offices and disbursing agent offices, operated by the US military forces.
        1.3.5. US Dollars or Dollar Instruments. Lawful currency of the US including paper and
        coins, US Treasury checks, personal checks, traveler’s checks, bank drafts, money orders,
        postal orders, or any other negotiable instruments expressed in US dollar amounts.
USAFEI51-710 27 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                  3


      1.3.6. UK Sterling or Sterling Instruments. Lawful currency of the UK including paper
      and coins, personal checks, money orders, or any other negotiable instruments expressed
      in UK pound sterling amounts or lesser amounts of lawful currency of the UK.
      1.3.7. United Kingdom. The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
      (including England, Scotland and Wales), herein abbreviated as UK.
   1.4. Implementation.
      1.4.1. The Director, USAFE-UK, serves as the US Country Representative for the UK.
      In this capacity, he is responsible for reviewing the provisions of this directive annually.
      Recommended changes to this directive will be submitted to HQ USAFE/JAI after
      coordination with other local US service commanders and the Chief of the US
      Diplomatic Mission to the UK.
      1.4.2. US military commanders are authorized to issue supplementary instructions when
      considered necessary or desirable to disseminate more detailed guidance or to impose
      additional restrictions. No supplement may be issued which will relax restrictions or
      procedures of this regulation. In turn, nothing in this regulation is intended to conflict
      with or relax policies and procedures established in directives, which may be applicable
      to respective members of the Services. Supplements to this regulation should be
      coordinated among senior component commanders in country.
2. Currency
   2.1. Medium of Exchange:
      2.1.1. The medium of exchange for all transactions shall be in either UK sterling
      currency and UK sterling instruments or US dollar currency and US dollar instruments.
      2.1.2. Non-appropriated fund clubs and messes may accept UK sterling currency in
      payment for meals, beverages and service charges only, under directives prescribed by
      the senior US commander in the UK having responsibility for the activity.
   2.2. Currency Exchange.
      2.2.1. Except insofar as UK currency may be paid out to authorized personnel as change
      in the course of transactions conducted by them in dollar currency or instruments, for
      example, with automobile or other insurance agencies, shops, department stores, hotels,
      landlords, public houses, and taxi operators; US dollar currency or dollar instruments will
      be exchanged into UK sterling currency by authorized activities only as indicated below.
         2.2.1.1. For Authorized Personnel. Only by military finance offices, military banking
         facilities, conversion points operated by authorized agencies, and by UK commercial
         banks.
         2.2.1.2. For Non-appropriated Fund Activities. Non-appropriated fund facilities will
         secure all UK sterling currency from military banking facilities (MBF). When there is
         no established MBF on the installation, such currency can be secured from military
         finance offices. Emergency requirements can be satisfied from military finance
         offices only if MBFs cannot meet
      2.2.2. UK Sterling Currency may be exchanged into US dollar currency or US dollar
      instruments only under the following conditions:
 4                                                       USAFEI51-710 27 SEPTEMBER 2013


            2.2.2.1. For Authorized Personnel Traveling on Temporary Duty Orders at
            Government Expense when departing the UK. UK sterling currency may be
            repurchased by military finance offices if the sterling currency was originally
            purchased from a military finance office. Amounts repurchased must be reasonable,
            taking into account the duration of time in the country and normal living expenses,
            and may not in any case exceed 100 pounds sterling per individual. A prerequisite for
            the repurchase of UK sterling currency is display of competent travel orders.
            2.2.2.2. For Personnel Afloat. Upon returning afloat, an individual may request the
            disbursing officer to exchange UK sterling currency into US dollar currency. The
            exchange shall not exceed the amount of sterling currency purchased before going
            ashore, as evidenced by the disbursing officer's records.
            2.2.2.3. For Authorized Personnel Who Are Departing the UK on Permanent
            Reassignment or in a "Home Leave and Return” Order Status. Military finance
            offices are authorized to exchange an amount not to exceed the equivalent of the
            individual's total salary and allowances paid at the duty station for 2 biweekly pay
            periods or 1 month's pay (depending on the procedures under which the individual is
            paid) or l00 pounds sterling per traveler (100 pounds for the authorized person and
            100 pounds for each dependent traveling with the authorized person), whichever is
            the lesser amount.
            2.2.2.4. For Dependents of DOD Personnel When Ordered to Safehaven Area Under
            Emergency Evacuation. Military finance offices are authorized to convert foreign
            currency into US dollar currency, in the amounts which the finance officer considers
            reasonable, for dependents evacuated to the UK as a safe haven. There are no
            restrictions on the type or kind of foreign currency, which may be exchanged under
            these conditions.
        2.2.3. These restrictions do not preclude authorized personnel from exchanging UK
        sterling currency or sterling instruments derived from legitimate business transactions
        (property sales, insurance settlements, refunds. etc.) into US dollar currency or dollar
        instruments through UK commercial banking channels. When requested, military
        banking facilities will assist authorized personnel in obtaining conversion of such sterling
        into US dollar currency or dollar instruments.
        2.2.4. Except as provided by 2.2.2.4. above, military finance offices are prohibited from
        exchanging any currency other than US dollars or UK sterling. Authorized personnel may
        obtain or dispose of foreign currencies other than UK sterling through authorized
        commercial banks and authorized travel agents.
     2.3. Import and Export of Currency.
        2.3.1. US dollar currency and UK sterling currency or sterling instruments may not be
        imported into or exported from the UK except as authorized by laws and regulation of the
        Government of the UK.
3. Personal Property
     3.1. Importation of Household Goods and Baggage.
USAFEI51-710 27 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                 5


      3.1.1. Authorized persons may import household goods and baggage free of customs
      duty, providing it is for the sole use of the authorized person or family members.
      3.1.2. The importation will be made under the provisions of applicable service directives.
      The authorized person will personally execute DD Form 1434, United Kingdom (UK)
      Customs Declaration for the Importation of Personal Effects of U. S. Forces/Civilian
      Personnel on Duty in the UK. This form will be used only for personal property
      (household goods and unaccompanied baggage) imported into the UK in connection with
      a permanent change of station.
   3.2. Sale of Personal Property.
      3.2.1. An authorized person or agency shall not sell, barter, mortgage or transfer personal
      property imported into the United Kingdom free of import duty or purchased or acquired
      free of purchase tax to non-authorized persons or agencies save to the extent that such
      transactions are authorized by agreement with HM Revenue & Customs.
      3.2.2. In disposing of personal property, regardless of origin, undignified sales practices
      such as auctions or "fire sales" and the advertising thereof will be avoided.
   3.3. Exportation of Personal Property.
      3.3.1. Personal property imported into the UK free of excise duty or acquired free of
      purchase tax (from an exchange or other facility having excise or purchase tax
      exemptions), will be exported from the UK upon termination of the authorized person's
      duty in the UK unless it earlier has been sold, donated, or otherwise transferred to an
      authorized person or activity or in accordance with Paragraph 3.2.1.
      3.3.2. Personal property will not be abandoned in the UK except as authorized by UK
      law. For more information on personal property visit the on-line DoD Personal Property
      Consignment Instruction Guide for the United Kingdom at the following link:
      https://tops.ppcigweb.sddc.army.mil/ppcig/query/countryInstruction.do?countryCo
      de=UK
4. Control of Firearms.
   4.1. Importation and Registration of Firearms.
      4.1.1. All privately owned handguns are prohibited in the United Kingdom. Privately
      owned automatic and semi-automatic rifles are also prohibited. Other rifles may be
      imported but will require the owner to obtain a Firearms Certificate that will severely
      limit where and how they may be used. Shotguns may be imported but repeating
      shotguns will be treated as “firearms” and will require a Firearms Certificate unless they
      have a magazine, which has been permanently altered or “plugged” to hold no more than
      two cartridges. Any permanently altered shotgun must bear a Proof House mark and have
      been certified as permanently altered. All shotguns must have a barrel of at least 24
      inches in length and a bore of no more than 2 inches in diameter or they will be
      prohibited. The owner of the shotgun (single shot or holding less than two cartridges) will
      be required to procure a Shotgun Certificate. Firearms and Shotgun Certificates will
      specify where and how the weapons will be stored and how, if at all, they may be used.
      Firearm and Shotgun Certificates are issued by the local UK police authorities on a case-
      by-case basis and involve an application process that will be carefully scrutinized.
6                                                       USAFEI51-710 27 SEPTEMBER 2013


       4.1.2. A person wishing to import a permitted firearm and a relevant Firearms or
       Shotgun Certificate has not yet been procured, the person entering the UK must deposit
       any firearms, which may require Firearms, or Shotgun Certificates with the first customs
       officer encountered. The owner should obtain a receipt, which describes the firearms and
       identifies the Customs Office. Normally, customs officials may detain for inspection
       personal property shipments containing firearms. If the person fails to obtain the
       necessary certificates, they will be responsible to find an authorized carrier and to send
       the firearm to the United States. Obtaining certificates involves a thorough vetting
       process and the application process will normally involve two references for verification.
       Shipment can be very expensive. In addition, there is always a risk that the firearm could
       be seized or destroyed without compensation.
       4.1.3. Upon arrival at a permanent duty station, the firearms owner must obtain approval
       of the unit commander for the acquisition of firearms and, if appropriate, ammunition.
       Thereafter the owner will present such approval to the local UK police authorities as part
       of the process to receive the appropriate Shotgun/Firearm Certificate.
       4.1.4. Because of the prohibition of certain weapons (which may subject weapons to
       confiscation and destruction) and the severe control of all others as well as the inevitable
       expenses involved, it is not recommended that privately owned firearms be imported into
       the United Kingdom
    4.2. Exportation of Firearms.
       4.2.1. No firearms or ammunition may be taken outside the UK either permanently or
       temporarily, unless an export license is obtained.
           4.2.1.1. When exporting outside the EU, a valid UK Firearms Certificate or Shotgun
           Certificate listing the items wanting to be exported, or a Specific Individual Export
           License (SIEL) is required. The SIEL may be obtained from the Export Control
           Organisaton at the Department of Business, Innovation & Skills. Applications are
           made on line at https://www.spire.berr.gov.uk.
           4.2.1.2. When exporting within the EU, a valid UK Firearms Certificate or Shotgun
           Certificate listing the items to be exported and either a European Firearms Pass issued
           by the local Police Firearms Licensing Unit or a Specific Individual Export License is
           required. Applications are made on line at https://www.spire.berr.gov.uk.
       4.2.2. If firearms are to be included in personal property shipments, the export license
       must be presented to the removal agent before the actual packing. If carried with personal
       baggage, firearms must be presented to appropriate UK customs authorities along with
       the proper document.
       4.2.3. Any individual who takes firearms or ammunition outside the UK temporarily
       will, in addition to the requirements of this instruction, ensure compliance with the laws
       of the country into which the firearm is taken.
       4.2.4. One who takes firearms from the UK on permanent change of station will, in
       addition to fulfilling the above applicable requirements, notify the local UK police and
       the Security Forces Pass and Registration Office of such removal.
USAFEI51-710 27 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                                  7


       4.2.5. The Gun Control Act of 1968 (Public Law 90-618) imposed very strict
       requirements concerning introduction of privately owned firearms and ammunition into
       the United States. These restrictions are applicable to all military and civilian personnel
       serving with the Armed Forces overseas. As a general rule, any persons subject to this
       regulation who intend to ship or otherwise introduce privately owned firearms or
       ammunition into the United States must first obtain either a certificate from their
       commanding officer or a permit from the US Treasury Department, whichever is
       appropriate. Individual services' directives contain detailed instructions concerning
       introduction of privately owned firearms and ammunition into the United States.
   4.3. Other Applicable Directives. Personnel must also comply with applicable service
   directives (reference paragraph 1.4.2.).
5. Sensitive Items:
   5.1. Tobacco and Alcoholic Beverages:
       5.1.1. The monthly tobacco ration for authorized persons 18 years of age or older is four
       cartons of cigarettes or 100 cigars or 16 pocket tins or 2 pounds of smoking tobacco.
       Other conditions and restrictions of entitlement are established in directives of the
       respective commanders in the UK.
       5.1.2. The monthly alcohol rationed allowance per authorized US military personnel and
       civilian employees 18 years of age and over is:
          5.1.2.1. Four bottles (1 liter or less) of rationed hard liquor per sponsor.
          5.1.2.2. Two bottles of rationed hard liquor per spouse of sponsor, if residing with
          sponsor in UK.
       5.1.3. Wine and beer are not rationed, but may only be purchased by persons authorized
       ration privi1eges.
       5.1.4. Dependents, who are not spouses of authorized persons, are not entitled to
       purchase alcohol at US Force outlets.
   5.2. Gasoline and Kerosene:
       5.2.1. Tax-free gasoline is available in the UK for members of the US Armed Forces, US
       civilian employees of US military departments, including non-appropriated fund
       activities, and US civilians accompanying and serving exclusively with the US Force.
       Entitled US personnel (and their spouses) may be issued with a 3AF Form 435
       Driving/Fuel Permit which certifies their eligibility to purchase tax and duty-free motor
       fuel through Army Air Forces Exchange Service (AAFES) facilities. Military and
       civilian members of the US Armed Forces, including AFRC and ANG personnel, on
       TDY in the UK for less than two weeks may present their military ID card and TDY
       orders verifying their TDY status in the UK as proof of eligibility.
       5.2.2. Tax Free motor fuel for the duty driving requirements of the US Force and its
       personnel is not rationed in the United Kingdom. Third Air Force Instruction 51-701,
       Control Procedures For the Supply of Tax-Free Gasoline and Diesel Fuel in the United
       Kingdom, and Third Air Force Instruction 51-702, Control Procedures For the Supply of
       Tax-Free Gasoline and Diesel Fuel From Off-Base Suppliers in the United Kingdom,
 8                                                      USAFEI51-710 27 SEPTEMBER 2013


        contain definitions, limitations, prohibited activities and control procedures for tax-free
        motor fuel in the UK. These instructions are applicable to all US force personnel and
        others entitled to purchase tax-free motor fuel in the UK.
6. Operation and Control of Motor Vehicles:
     6.1. Concession Vehicles:
        6.1.1. A concession vehicle is a vehicle imported free of import duty or purchased free of
        UK purchase tax. Single persons and married personnel not accompanied by dependents
        are authorized one concession vehicle. Married personnel accompanied by their
        dependents are entitled to two concession vehicles. While a maximum of two concession
        vehicles may be in the possession of an authorized person at one time, no limit is placed
        on the number of concession vehicles which may be acquired in succession, provided the
        following requirements are met:
            6.1.1.1. The application for a second or replacement vehicle must be approved by the
            sponsor's unit commander.
            6.1.1.2. The purchaser agrees to keep possession of the second or replacement
            vehicle for a minimum of 6 months.
        6.1.2. Disposal of a concession vehicle will be subject to any directives, which may be
        issued by the senior US military commander of the owner's service in the UK. Under no
        circumstances will a concession vehicle be abandoned.
        6.1.3. A concession vehicle may be disposed of only by export; sale to an authorized
        person; scrapped after payment of UK customs and excise duty; scrapped as a total loss
        under a contract of insurance; accepted by a US forces marketing and redistribution
        center if the vehicle has been in the UK for 2 years and owned by the current owner for 6
        months; or sale on the open market after payment of all customs and excise duty. (If the
        title to a motor vehicle is transferred to an insurer because of a theft, liability for UK
        import duties and taxes may arise. Such potential liability should be included in the
        insurance coverage).
        6.1.4. The 3AFI 31-204, Control of Concession Vehicles, contains more detailed
        procedures pertaining to concession vehicles.
     6.2. Operation of Vehicles:
        6.2.1. All personally owned motor vehicles operated by US force personnel in the UK
        will be registered as required by British law. In addition, all concession vehicles will be
        registered with the appropriate US military authority.
        6.2.2. United Kingdom law requires vehicles to be covered by unlimited personal
        liability insurance (third party liability).
        6.2.3. United Kingdom law requires the payment of an annual road tax and an annual
        inspection of all vehicles 3 years old or older. There is an initial 12-month exemption
        from the road tax on imported vehicles, and new vehicles of UK manufacture.
        6.2.4. No person will display on his or her vehicles a service insignia, emblem, sticker,
        or plate that is not required by UK law, or authorized by US military authority.
USAFEI51-710 27 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                               9


     6.2.5. British law requires that vehicles manufactured in 1964 or thereafter will have
     permanently installed at least a safety harness-type seat belt for the driver and a safety
     harness-type seat belt for the front seat passenger. A safety harness-type seat belt is
     defined as a combination lap and shoulder belt or a diagonal shoulder belt for the driver
     and front seat passenger. A lap belt alone is insufficient.
     6.2.6. Vehicles less than three years old at the time of importation must be submitted for
     a US Force Single Vehicle Approval Test prior to registration on base and use on British
     roads. Vehicles over three years old must be submitted for a Ministry of Transport
     (MOT) Test prior to registration and use.
  6.3. Drivers’ Licenses:
     6.3.1. Members of the US force or civilian component and their dependents may operate
     a motor vehicle in the UK with a valid international or US state driver’s license or a US
     forces driving permit. Members of the US Air Force are required to obtain a 3AF
     Driving Permit (Form 435) in accordance with 3AFI 51-701 and installation instructions.
     The 3AF Driving Permit only authorizes driving the class of vehicle for which the
     member is qualified to drive in accordance with their US license. Note: The 3AF
     Driving Permit is not recognized as a valid UK driving permit for contractor personnel.
     6.3.2. UK law provides that persons and visitors may drive in the UK with a valid US
     license for a period of 12 months following the person's entry into the UK. After the 12-
     month period, a UK license should be obtained.
  6.4. Responsibilities of Command :
     6.4.1. The senior US commander of each military service in the UK is authorized to
     issue directives affecting military and civilian personnel under the senior US
     commander’s command or supervision with respect to, but not limited to, the following:
         6.4.1.1. Issuance of US Forces driving permits, which are recognized by the UK
         government.
         6.4.1.2. Administratively suspending or revoking US Forces driving permits
         according to applicable directives and international agreements.
         6.4.1.3. Administratively suspending or revoking the privilege of operating motor
         vehicles on US instal1ations.
         6.4.1.4. Requiring the annual inspection of motor vehicles operated on military
         installations.
         6.4.1.5. Requiring the maintenance of minimum insurance coverage, both public
         liability and property damage, required by UK law on motor vehicles operated on
         military installations.
 10                                                 USAFEI51-710 27 SEPTEMBER 2013


7. UK Law and International Agreements.
   7.1. Compliance with US Forces Directives, UK Laws, and International Agreements:
      7.1.1. In addition to US personnel in the UK being subject to laws of the UK of general
      application, US personnel also will comply with US Forces directives and international
      agreements that affect them while in the UK.




                                          JEFFREY S. PALMER, Colonel, USAF
                                          Staff Judge Advocate

                                          ARMY
                                          JAMES B. MINGO
                                          Colonel, GS
                                          Chief of Staff

                                          NAVY
                                          ANTHONY E. GAIANI, Rear Admiral, USN
                                          Commander Navy Region Europe, Africa,
                                          Southwest Asia
USAFEI51-710 27 SEPTEMBER 2013                                                              11


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of Their
Forces, signed 19 June 1951 (NATO Status of Forces Agreement). (4 UST 1792; 199 UNTS 64)
(BGB1 1961, II, 1138, 1190)
EUCOM Directive 45-7, Country Regulations, 4 January 2005, HQ USEUCOM, Unit 30400,
Box 1000, APO AE 09128. Last visited, 22 Feb 12, at
http://www.eucom.mil/publications/ed/ED45-7.PDF
Gun Control Act of 1968 (Public Law 90- 618), 18 USC Section 921 et seq., Last visited, 2 Oct
00, at http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/18/ch44.html.
DD Form 1434, United Kingdom (UK) Customs Declaration, Jun 2002, Last visited, 22 Feb 12,
at http://www.dtic.mil/whs/directives/infomgt/forms/eforms/dd1434.pdf
Prescribing Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
MBF—military banking facility
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NATO SOFA—North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement
POV—Privately owned vehicle
SAO—Security Assistance Organization
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USCR—United States Country Representative
USEUCOM—United States European Command
UK—United Kingdom
