BY ORDER OF THE                                                              USAREUR Reg550-43/
COMMANDER US AIR FORCES IN EUROPE                                CINCUSNAVEUR Instruction 5840.26A/
(USAFE)                                                                   USAFE Instruction 51-708
                                                                                           7 MARCH 2001
                                                                             Certified Current 15 June 2011
                                                                                                       Law

                                                        REGULATIONS ON PERSONAL PROPERTY,
                                                         LOCAL CURRENCY MEDICAL CARE AND
                                                        MOTOR VEHICLES FOR US PERSONNEL IN
                                                                                  DENMARK

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE: This publication is available digitally on the USAFE CSS/SCBP WWW site at: https://
wwwmil.usafe.af.mil/direct/foas/css/sb/scbp/pdl/publish.htm


OPR: HQ USAFE/JAI (Maj Tauro)                                 Certified by: HQ USAFE/JAI (Col Dooley)
Supersedes USAREUR REG 550-43/CINCUS-                                                         Pages: 7
           NAVEUR INST 5840.26A/USAFER                                                 Distribution: F
           30-8, 10 February 1989

This instruction implements AFPD 51-7, International Law. It establishes prohibitions concerning the
disposition of duty-free personal property, and the acquisition and disposition of local currency except as
provided in this instruction. It outlines requirements concerning the registration of firearms, and licens-
ing of drivers and provides a basis for punitive action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)
for military personnel or administrative action, to include possible revocation of all duty-free privileges
for military and civilian personnel. This instruction applies to United States Air Force, Army, Navy,
Marine Corps and National Guard units and military and civilian personnel and their dependents in Den-
mark except those assigned or attached to diplomatic and consular offices and Security Assistance Orga-
nizations (SAO), who are gov erned by appropriate embassy directives. Certain provisions of this
instruction are punitive. Violations of the specific prohibitions in paragraphs and related paragraphs
2.1, 4.1, 5.1, and 6.1 and 6.3. of this instruction by military personnel may result in prosecution under
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) Article 92(1) and/or Article 134. Civilian personnel are sub-
ject to disciplinary action (including loss of logistic support privileges) for violations of these paragraphs
according to applicable service instructions on civilian misconduct and adverse administrative actions.
Civilians may also be subject to criminal prosecution by the host nation for violation of host nation laws.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Changed to properly identify current agreements and dates; adds USEUCOM directive reference.
Responsibilities (Paragraph 1): Changed to correctly identify the USCR and USDR and assigns respon-
sibilities as directed by paragraph 4b of USEUCOM Directive 45-7. Personal Property and Customs
(Paragraph 2): Added language regarding customs consequences for military persons contemplating
retirement or separation in country. Added a paragraph which specifically recognizes tax/duty free pur-
chases through recognized in country military sales channels. Changed to clarify that transfer of tax/duty
2                                                                    USAFEI 51-708 7 MARCH 2001

free items to another “entitled” person is permitted without tax consequences. Clarifies that valuation at
the time of sale to non-entitled persons is under Danish customs instructions. Added paragraph to clarify
aiding a person to circumvent the instruction is prohibited. Currency (Paragraph 3): Simplified to basic
elements of import and export. Updates amounts of currency consistent with current Danish law. Pri-
vately Owned Firearms (Paragraph 4.1): Changed to be consistent with current practice concerning the
importation of privately owned firearms. Clarifies that although import duties and taxes are waived, other
fees and restrictions exist. Operation of POVs (Paragraph 6.3.1): Changed to reflect current blood alco-
hol level of 0.50. Medical Services (Paragraph 7): Changed to inform members of no fee basis. Deleted
all references to medical support through the 7240th ABS in Oslo; no longer in existence and no physician
at the 426th ABS in Stavanger. DELETIONS: The 1983 regulations had the following section which was
completely deleted in the proposed instruction for the following reasons: Radio and Television Sets
(Paragraph 10, 1983 Reg): Deleted as current agreements set out a complete exemption for the radio and
TV taxes. A margin bar indicates revisions from the previous edition.



1. Responsibilities.
    1.1. US Country Representative (USCR). The USCR, Denmark also performs the duties of the US
    Defense Representative (USDR). The USCR, Denmark is responsible for ensuring implementation of
    and compliance with this instruction, conducting an annual review of the instruction and drafting
    changes to the instruction a s needed. The U SCR, Denmark, is authorized to issue supplementa ry
    instructions when considered necessary or desirable to disseminate more detailed guidance or to
    impose additional restrictions. The USDR, Denmark is responsible for coordinating changes to the
    instruction with the Chief of Mission.
    1.2. Supplements. US military commanders are authorized to i ssue supplementary instructions to
    this instruction when considered necessary or desirable to disseminate more detailed guidance or to
    impose additional restrictions. No supplement may be issued which will relax restrictions or proce-
    dures set out in this instruction. Proposed supplements are to be coordinated with the USCR, Den-
    mark, before implementation.
    1.3. Other Directives. Nothing in this instruction is intended to conflict with or relax policies and
    procedures established in other directives which are applicable to respective members of the individ-
    ual armed services.

2. Acquisition And Disposal Of Personal Property And Customs Control.
    2.1. General . All personnel are subject to Danish customs restrictions. Personnel contemplating
    retirement or separation from military duty in Denmark should be aware that all custom entry require-
    ments (including payment of duties and taxes) remain the responsibility of the member and is a per-
    sonal matter between the member and the Government of Denmark.
       2.1.1. Import of Household Goods. Permanently assigned personnel may import into Denmark
       household goods for the duration of their tour. These imports are considered temporarily duty and
       tax-free imports. All such items must be for the personal use of the assigned personnel or their
       dependents.
       2.1.2. Other Goods. Other than goods obtained through recognized military sales channels, all
       goods imported into the country by US personnel on an i ndividual basis are subject to Danish
USAFEI 51-708 7 MARCH 2001                                                                              3

      import directives and duties a nd must be processed by application through the NATO headquar-
      ters.
      2.1.3. In Country Purchases. Authorized US personnel may purchase duty/tax free goods
      through recognized military sales channels (US/NATO/Danish military exchanges, commissaries,
      or ship’s store) within Denmark and may obtain after point of purchase refunds of value added
      taxes paid within Denmark during their tour of duty. For motor vehicles, see paragraph 6 of this
      instruction.
      2.1.4. Export. Duty/tax free items imported or acquired during a tour of duty by authorized per-
      sonnel must be exported from Denmark upon departure from Denmark or upon completion of the
      tour of duty, transferred to another individual authorized the same duty/tax free privilege, or dis-
      posed of according to paragraph 2.1.5. below.
      2.1.5. Disposal. Duty/tax free items imported or acquired during a tour of duty by authorized per-
      sonnel and their dependents, regardless of the method or place of acquisition of such property or
      the length of time th e property has been in the possession of the authorized person, will not be
      sold, traded, conveyed, or otherwise transferred to persons in Denmark not entitled to the same
      duty/tax free privilege except as permitted by this instruction. Duty/tax free items include items
      for which tax relief was obtained subsequent to the point of sale. Duty/tax free property shall not
      be disposed of to non-entitled persons by sale, barter, gift, conveyance or any other manner of
      transfer until Danish duties and taxes have been paid. Valuation at the time of disposal sha ll be
      determined by Danish customs valuation regulations. In disposing of any personal property,
      regardless of origin, personnel are prohibited from advertising before the general public or adver-
      tising in any manner that could be considered sensational. Local US service commanders may
      establish further specific guidelines for appropriate advertising.
      2.1.6. Military Post Office (MPO) or Air Post Office (APO) Customs Require ments. Dan-
      ish authorities may exercise customs controls and impose duties on personal parcels received
      through any MPO or APO in Denmark. Personnel will comply with applicable US and Danish
      laws pertaining to customs controls and duties on personal property received through any MPO or
      APO in Denmark.
      2.1.7. Aiding. No person authorized to import or purchase goods duty/tax free may aid or abet
      any other person in obtaining and/or transferring duty/tax free goods in contravention of this
      instruction.

3. Currency.
   3.1. US and Danish Currency . US currency may be used on the Danish economy; however, it is
   normally economically advantageous to exchange US currency for Danish currency and use the Dan-
   ish currency on the local economy.
      3.1.1. Import. There are no restrictions on import of foreign or Danish currency.
      3.1.2. Export. For currency purposes, US personnel are considered nonresident in Denmark.
      Any financial account in a Danish bank is registered as a foreign kroner account. No restrictions
      exist on taking money out of the se accounts or Denmark. The selle r must report single transac-
      tions of more than 40,000 Danish Kroner to the National Bank of Denmark. Single transactions
      for less than that amount are not required to be reported.
4                                                                      USAFEI 51-708 7 MARCH 2001

4. Weapons.
    4.1. Control of Firearms and Other Weapons. Personnel may import dut y-free privately owned
    firearms into Denmark as par t of their household goods. Although Danish import taxes on firearms
    are waived, other fees and restrictions exist. The provisions of Danish law shall apply to the registra-
    tion, possession, and carrying of privately owned arms and ammunition. All privately owned firearms
    and ammunition must be registered with the local police. All firearms imported duty-free must be
    exported from Denmark upon departure from Denmark or upon completion of the tour of duty. The
    USCR may prescribe further controls for firearms, ammunition, and other dangerous weapons. Viola-
    tions of these laws and regulations shall subject offenders to disciplinary and administrative action.
       4.1.1. Pistols. Only pistols up to 9mm in bore may be imported. An individual possessing a pistol
       must complete a registration application, pay applicable fees, store the pistol at an authorized loca-
       tion (such as Headquarters Joint Command Northeast (JCNE)), and be a member in good standing
       of a host c ountry shooting club. If a pistol enters Denmark in an individual’s household goods
       and the owner is not a membe r of a shooting club, the owner must store the pistol in a we apons
       depot (such as at JCNE) for the duration of his or her assignment in Denmark.
       4.1.2. Rifles. An individual possessing a rifle mu st complete a registration application with the
       local police and pay applicable fees. If the owner is a member of a shooting club and the rifle will
       not be used for hunting, the application fee is waived. To obtain a Danish hunting license, the
       owner must possess a valid stateside hunting license.
       4.1.3. Shotguns. An owner of a shotgun does not have to complete an application for registration,
       but is required to obtain a Danish hunting license. If a hunting license is not obtained, the owner
       may not possess the shotgun in Denmark. See paragraph 4.1.2. on obtaining a hunting license.
    4.2. Further Controls. Commanders may prescribe further controls as required for firearms, ammu-
    nition, and other dangerous weapons.

5. Rationed Items.
    5.1. Tobacco and Alcoholic Items, General. The Danish Government controls the importation,
    acquisition and sale of duty/tax free alcoholic beverages and duty/tax free tobacco products on a
    rationed basis. In addition, US military directives may establish other controls. Personnel will com-
    ply with US military directives and Danish laws pertaining to the importation, acquisition and dis-
    posal of duty/tax free alcoholic beverages and tobacco products in Denmark. Additionally, the rules
    in paragraph 2.1.5. apply to the disposal of duty/tax-free alcoholic beverages and tobacco products in
    Denmark.

6. Importation, Operation And Control Of Privately Owned Motor Vehicles (POV).
    6.1. Importation, Acquisition, Transfer, and Disposal of Motor Vehicles. Personnel assigned to
    NATO duty in Denmark shall not acquire, import, transfer or in any other way, dispose of a motor
    vehicle, except as follows:
       6.1.1. NATO SOFA . All terms of the NATO SOFA will be adhered to.
       6.1.2. Vehicle Importation/Purchase. US personnel entitled to motor vehicles free of duties and
       taxes under Annex A to the Supplementary Agreement, may acquire such vehicles by temporary
       importation, purchase from another entitled person or purchase on the Danish domestic market.
USAFEI 51-708 7 MARCH 2001                                                                                5

     Entitled personnel may own at any one time one duty free vehicle. A replacement vehicle may be
     imported or purchased free of tax and duty, if the Danish customs or police authorities certify that
     the previous vehicle has been destroyed (scrapped), or customs duty has been paid, or that it has
     been irrevocably stolen. Furthermore, a vehicle may be replaced at an interval of not less that 12
     months by further temporary importation or purchase free of tax and duty, if the previous vehicle
     has been exported and the Danish license plates returned, or it has been sold with Danish taxes and
     duties paid. In exception al circumstances, this 12-month retention ruling given above may be
     waived.
     6.1.3. Dependent. A Denmark residing dependent of US personnel assigned t o NATO duty in
     Denmark may also import or purchase free of tax and duty one motor vehicle for private noncom-
     mercial use, subject to the rules in 6.1.2. The exercise of this privilege is limited to one dependent
     per family.
     6.1.4. Restrictions. Duty and tax free motor vehicles are for personal use only by entitled US per-
     sonnel and their dependents; such vehicles cannot be loaned out to or driven by other persons.
     Duty and tax free motor vehicles cannot be used for any business, economic or financial activity
     in Denmark including use of the vehicle for hire or rent. Violations of these restrictions may sub-
     ject the owner to payment of Danish duties and taxes.
     6.1.5. Sham Transactions. No person shall buy a duty and tax free motor vehicle unless the pur-
     pose of the transaction is to enable the member to use the motor vehicle. Sham transactions,
     which result in the nonpayment of ta xes otherwise due and owed to the Da nish government, are
     strictly forbidden. No one may sell or dispose of a motor vehicle unless all applicable Danish
     taxes and duties are paid and the Danish authorities are notified unless the vehicle is sold to a car
     dealer or exported; in such cases, proof of sale or export must be presented to Danish customs.
     Violation of this restriction shall subject the offender to disciplinary action and loss of privileges.
  6.2. Laws and Directives. The USCR will ensure that all personnel are aware of applicable Danish
  laws and US military directives pertaining to the registration and operation of motor vehicles.
  6.3. Operation of Privately Owned Vehicles (POV). Personnel will comply with Danis h laws
  while operating POVs in Denmark. Denmark operates under the “International Road Sign” system
  that is generally used throughout Western Europe.
     6.3.1. Driving While Intoxicated. Danish law prohibits any person from operating or attempting
     to operate a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol or a ny other intoxicating or nar-
     cotic agent. A blood-alcohol level of over 0.50 mg alcohol per cc of blood creates a presumption
     of intoxication. Persons convicted by a Danish court for driving or attempting to drive while
     intoxicated will normally lose their privilege to drive in Denmark. Additionally, the individual
     could receive a fine and imprisonment. Sentences of imprisonment may be increased with the
     seriousness of the violation. Additionally, driving while drunk is prohibited under the provisions
     of the UCMJ. Violations of these laws shall subject offenders to disciplinary action and loss of
     privileges.
     6.3.2. Insurance. Third party (public liability and property damage) insurance is compulsory
     under Danish law. A vehicle imported or purchased tax/duty free under the NATO SOFA must be
     insured by, or through, a Danish insurance company before it can be registered and licensed.
     6.3.3. Operator’s License. US personnel assigned to units in support of NATO in Denmark and
     their dependents are required to have a Danish driving license. On production of a current driving
6                                                                     USAFEI 51-708 7 MARCH 2001

       permit or license, Danish authorities will issue a Danish driving license. Personnel stationed out-
       side Denmark are authorized to operate a POV with either a valid operator’s license issued by any
       state of the United States of America, a valid Danish operator’s license, or an international opera-
       tor’s license.
       6.3.4. Registration. Vehicles owned by US personnel and their dependents will not be licensed to
       operate in Denmark until they have first been inspected and registered with the Danish Motor
       Vehicle Registration Office.
       6.3.5. Markings. The display of any type of service insignia, emblems, stickers, or plates on a
       POV is prohibited unless required or permitted by Denmark law.
       6.3.6. Cellular phones. Danish law prohibits the use of handheld cellular phones while operating
       cars, bicycles, motorbikes and other licensed vehicles.

7. Medical Services.
    7.1. No Fee Basis In-hospital treatment (including maternity care and emergency services) is to be on
    the same no fee basis as Danish citizens.



                                         STEPHEN C. DONNELLY, Colonel, USAF
                                         Staff Judge Advocate
USAFEI 51-708 7 MARCH 2001                                                                            7

                                            Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES, ABBREVIATIONS, AND ACRONYMS

References
Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty Regarding the Status of Their Forces, 19 June
1951 (NATO Status of Forces Agreement). (4 UST 1792; 199 UNTS 64) (BGB1 1961, II, 1138, 1190)
BEK no 1132, 16 Dec 99, Section14
EUCOM Directive 45-7, Country Regulations, 17 Dec 1997, HQ USEUCOM, Unit 30400, Box 1000,
APO AE 09128. Last visited, 11 Sep 00, at http://www.eucom.mil/publications/ed/ED45-7.PDF
Protocol on the Status of International Military Headquarters Set Up Pursuant to the North Atlantic
Treaty, 28 August 1952 (Paris Protocol)
Supplementary Agreement Between the Kingdom of Denmark and the Supreme Allied Commander
Europe on the Special Conditions Applicable to the Establishment and Operation on Danish Territory of
International Military Headquarters, 24 February 1978; Annex A to the Supplementary Agreement
Applicable Danish law; and existing US and NATO military directives
Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Force Exchange Service
APO/MPO—Air or Military Post Office
JCNE—Headquarters Joint Command Northeast
NATO—North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NATO SOFA—North Atlantic Treaty Organization Status of Forces Agreement
POV—Privately owned vehicle
SAO—Security Assistance Organization
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice
USCINCEUR—United States Commander in Chief Europe
USCR—United States Country Representative
USDR—United States Defense Representative
USEUCOM—United States European Command
