BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                       INSTRUCTION 36-402
EUROPE (USAFE)
                                                                             20 AUGUST 2007
                                                     Incorporating Change 1, 16 November 2009
                                                              Certified Current 22 March 2012
                                                                                    Personnel

                                                  DRUG ABUSE RESISTANCE EDUCATION
                                                                  (D.A.R.E.) PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFE/A1SAS                                                Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1S
                                                                             (Mr. Brian P. Borda)
                                                                                        Pages: 6



This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-22, Air Force Military
Training and AFPD 36-4, Air Force Civilian Training, Education, and Development and
establishes United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE) policies, responsibilities, and
procedures for implementing the drug abuse resistance education (D.A.R.E.) program. It applies
to all USAFE organizations implementing D.A.R.E. It does not apply to Air Force Reserve
Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) units. Refer recommended changes and
conflicts between this and other publications to Directorate of Manpower, Personnel, and
Services, Airmen & Family Services Branch, USAFE/A1SAS, Unit 3050, Box 25, APO AE
09094-5025. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located in AF Records Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS)
located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change reflects the name change for Department of Defense Education Authority -
Europe (DoDEA-Europe) schools and the office symbol for HQ USAFE School Liaison Office
(HQ USAFE/A1SAS). A margin bar (|) indicates newly revised material
1. Overview: D.A.R.E. is a substance abuse prevention education program designed to equip
elementary and middle school children with skills for resisting peer pressure to experiment with
2                                                              USAFEI36-402 20 AUGUST 2007


tobacco, drugs, and alcohol. D.A.R.E. was developed in 1983 by the Los Angeles (LA) Police
Department and the LA Unified School District and was adopted by the Department of Defense
Education Activity - Europe (DoDEA-Europe) in 1986. This program is supported by training
uniformed military members or Department of Defense (DoD) civilians to teach a formal
curriculum to students in a classroom setting. D.A.R.E. gives special attention to fifth grade
students to prepare them for entry into middle or junior high school, where they are most likely
to encounter pressures to use drugs. D.A.R.E. lessons are highly structured activities that focus
on five major areas:
    1.1. Providing accurate information about tobacco, alcohol, and drugs.
    1.2. Teaching students decision-making skills.
    1.3. Showing students how to resist peer pressure.
    1.4. Giving students ideas for alternatives to drug use.
    1.5. Emphasizing to students the importance of self esteem and cultivating it in themselves
    and others.
2. Policy: The D.A.R.E. program in USAFE is an optional but highly desired wing program.
USAFE commanders are strongly encouraged to support their local DoDEA-Europe school in
implementing D.A.R.E.; however, the needs of the mission prevail. DoD civilians and military
personnel from all Air Force Skill Codes may volunteer as D.A.R.E. instructors as an additional
duty with commander consent and release to do so. A minimum of one volunteer instructor is
required to present D.A.R.E. at each Air Force-supported DoDEA-Europe location. Additional
volunteers may be trained for schools with large student populations. D.A.R.E. instructors,
logos, and curriculum will not be utilized in other school programs.
3. Responsibilities:
    3.1. The USAFE Program Coordinator for D.A.R.E. will be the USAFE School Liaison
    Office ( HQ USAFE/A1SAS). The USAFE Program Coordinator for D.A.R.E. will:
       3.1.1. Coordinate program implementation with HQ DoDEA-Europe and installation
       point of contacts (POC).
       3.1.2. Assign and control instructor training quotas to requesting units.
       3.1.3. Establish installation responsibilities in support of D.A.R.E. and support
       installation POCs as needed.
    3.2. On USAFE installations that choose to support and implement the D.A.R.E. program
    and have no designated POC already in place, the School Liaison Office (SLO) will act as
    the installation POC for the program. The POC will:
       3.2.1. Act as overall program coordinator for the installation.
       3.2.2. Select D.A.R.E instructors based on criteria in paragraph 4. The local DoDEA-
       Europe administrator will be given the opportunity to participate in the selection process.
       3.2.3. Schedule instructors and ensure they do not have conflicting duties which would
       prevent them from teaching D.A.R.E. on scheduled class dates.
USAFEI36-402 20 AUGUST 2007                                                                     3


      3.2.4. Support instructors in dialogue with school, community, and military officials.
      Classroom visitation by installation command element and key unit personnel is highly
      recommended.
      3.2.5. Provide quota requests for instructor training to HQ USAFE/A1SAS as requested.
   3.3. D.A.R.E. instructors will:
      3.3.1. Volunteer as an additional duty with commander consent and release to do so.
      3.3.2. Commit to attending two week temporary duty (TDY) instructor training prior to
      teaching classes. All TDY costs paid by DoDEA-Europe (paragraph 6.1).
      3.3.3. Maintain relations with school administrators and faculty and key military and
      community officials.
      3.3.4. Prepare teaching material such as lesson plans, visual aids, handouts, posters, etc.,
      to use in D.A.R.E. presentations.
      3.3.5. Prepare guides for teachers to use in auxiliary classroom activities.
      3.3.6. Review student homework assignments.
      3.3.7. Spend time with students during recess and lunch periods.
      3.3.8. Prepare and present D.A.R.E. briefings at faculty in-service, parent education, and
      parent teacher-student association meetings.
      3.3.9. Schedule and coordinate assemblies for D.A.R.E. culmination proceedings.
      3.3.10. Perform public speaking engagements when requested by civic and military
      organizations.
4. Instructor Qualifications. Military, DoD civilian, and Ministry of Defence personnel
(assigned to USAFE locations in the United Kingdom) who are selected to become D.A.R.E.
instructors will attend D.A.R.E. instructor training and meet the following criteria:
   4.1. Be a volunteer and have at least 1 year retainability. Instructors must be wiling to
   dedicate off-duty time to the success of the program, especially during the school year, but
   recognize the needs of the mission prevail.
      4.1.1. Be experienced and able to identify with young people. The recommended
      instructor rank for military members is E4 to E7 or 01 to 03. The recommended time in
      service for DoD civilians is two years, minimum.
      4.1.2. Have excellent communication and organizational skills.
      4.1.3. Present a positive, professional appearance and manner.
      4.1.4. Demonstrate a genuine interest in children and in drug abuse prevention /
      responsible life choices.
      4.1.5. Be willing to dedicate off-duty time to the success of the program; however,
      recognize the needs of the mission prevail.
      4.1.6. Have no record of disciplinary action or currently be under investigation.
      4.1.7. Have personal habits consistent with the role of being a D.A.R.E. officer.
4                                                              USAFEI36-402 20 AUGUST 2007



5. Procedures:
    5.1. The amount of time spent on instructing students depends on availability of volunteers,
    but as a goal, volunteer instructors should strive for one core or visitation lesson per week per
    class. Instructors should not teach more than four class periods of core lessons in one day.
    Instructors should use the remainder of the day for visitation lessons and recess/lunchroom
    visits.
       5.1.1. Only certified D.A.R.E. instructors will teach D.A.R.E. Certification may only be
       obtained by attending the 80 hour (two week) training course in or in the Continental
       United States (CONUS). All TDY costs are paid by DoDEA-Europe.
       5.1.2. In coordination with base D.A.R.E. POC (SLO), instructors will contact the school
       administrator sufficiently in advance of each school year to schedule DARE curriculum
       in the classroom. Implementing D.A.R.E. at the outset of the school year or as soon
       thereafter is recommended.
       5.1.3. Instructors will assume a non-law enforcement role when conducting D.A.R.E.
       activities.
       5.1.4. Instructors should not be tasked as crossing guards, playground monitors, etc.
       5.1.5. Student disciplinary problems will be referred to the classroom teacher or the
       school administrator for resolution.
       5.1.6. While engaged in D.A.R.E. activities, instructors may have students who tell of
       problems involving abuse, neglect, alcoholic parents, or relatives who use drugs. These
       cases will immediately be reported to the school administrator who will initiate
       appropriate action through school channels.
       5.1.7. Instructors who are military personnel will wear the uniform of the day (UOD)
       when teaching D.A.R.E. Instructors who are DoD civilians will wear professional attire.
       5.1.8. In coordination with base D.A.R.E. POC (SLO), instructors will conduct an in-
       service orientation for classroom teachers at the beginning of the school year to
       familiarize them with the D.A.R.E. curriculum, explain D.A.R.E. roles, and identify ways
       teachers can cooperate in effectively communicating D.A.R.E.'s objectives to the
       students.
       5.1.9. In coordination with base D.A.R.E. POC (SLO), at least once during the D.A.R.E.
       course of instruction, instructors will arrange an evening session for parents to explain the
       program, describe ways to improve family communication, help parents recognize and
       respond to symptoms of substance use in their children, and provide information about
       available counseling resources.
       5.1.10. The final lesson of the core curriculum is designed as a culmination assembly for
       graduating students. This event provides an opportunity for recognizing outstanding
       students and presenting certificates of achievement to all students who participated in the
       program. Schedule culmination assemblies for times that allow maximum participation
       by students, parents, civic/military officials, and guest speakers.
USAFEI36-402 20 AUGUST 2007                                                                     5


6. Logistics:
   6.1. The 2-week instructor training course and any subsequent in-service training is funded
   by DoDEA-Europe. The Installation POC (SLO) will receive notification of all such training
   and notify volunteer instructors of training dates. Installations are encouraged to attend the
   DoDEA-Europe funded course. Installations that require out of cycle training quotas must
   fund the TDY expenses.
       6.1.1. Training films required as part of the D.A.R.E. curriculum are provided by
       DoDEA-Europe and will be maintained by the school administrator. Use of projectors,
       bulletin/poster boards, office supplies, auditoriums, etc., will be coordinated through the
       school administrator.
       6.1.2. Appropriated funds cannot be used to purchase D.A.R.E. promotional items such
       as notebooks, t-shirts, and bumper stickers; however, community service organizations
       may provide or donate these items. To preclude the appearance of conflict of interest,
       D.A.R.E. instructors will not secure or hold monies from fundraising activities. For
       guidance, consult your local staff judge advocate.
   6.2. Forms Adopted: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                     JOSEPH M. MASTRIANNA, Colonel, USAF
                                     Deputy Director of Manpower, Personnel, and Services
6                                                        USAFEI36-402 20 AUGUST 2007


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD36-4, Air Force Civilian Training, Education and Development, 12 Feb 2004
AFPD 36-22, Air Force Military Training, 22 March 2004
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994

Abbreviations and Acronyms
D.A.R.E.-—-Drug Abuse Resistance Education
DoD—-Department of Defense
DoDDS-E—-Department of Defense Dependents School - Europe
DoDEA—Europe--Department of Defense Education Activity - Europe
LA—-Los Angeles
POC—-Point of Contact
SLO—-School Liaison Office
TDY—-Temporary Duty
USAFE—-United States Air Forces in Europe
