BY ORDER OF THE                                            HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
SUPERINTENDENT                                            ACADEMY INSTRUCTION 36-3520

                                                                               31 MARCH 2010
                                                               Certified Current 18 January 2013
                                                                                      Personnel

                                                               SENIOR MILITARY FACULTY



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: HQ USAFA/DPA                                                  Certified by: HQ USAFA/DP
                                                                    (Col David A. Southerland)
                                                                                      Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-35, United States Air Force
Academy, 1 February 2007, and provides guidance for managing Senior Military Faculty
members assigned to the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) to include appointment,
qualifications, nomination, continuation, and termination. This publication does not apply to Air
Force Reserve Command (AFRC) units and the Air National Guard (ANG). This instruction
establishes procedures IAW Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-3501, Air Force Academy
Operations, 28 April 2008. This instruction does not negate the responsibility of The Judge
Advocate General to assign judge advocates under 10 U.S.C. 806. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the office of primary responsibility, HQ USAFA/DPA,
using AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the AFRIMS Records
Disposition        Schedule       (RDS)         located       at      https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.

This publication requires Academy agencies to collect and maintain information protected by the
Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authority to collect and or maintain records is prescribed in the
applicable Air Force Privacy Act System of Records. The applicable Privacy Act System
Notices are F036 USAFA A through M, which can be accessed online at
http://www.defenselink.mil/privacy/notices/usaf/.
2                                                        USAFAI 36-3520 31 MARCH 2010


1. Senior Military Faculty (SMF). Limited and specific USAFA assignments are coded as
SMF (indefinite) for time-on-station purposes to provide military leadership and subject matter
depth for their respective departments. SMF assignments will be managed IAW AFI 36-3501,
paragraph 2.7.9.3. As a general rule, SMF personnel will remain assigned to USAFA until
termination of SMF status, selection for promotion to Colonel, or retirement, whichever is
sooner.
    1.1. Appointment. The Dean of the Faculty (HQ USAFA/DF) is designated as office of
    primary responsibility for managing the USAFA SMF program. The combination of
    Permanent Professors (PPs) and SMF positions will not exceed 15% of authorized USAFA
    faculty strength as reflected in unit manpower documents.
       1.1.1. Officers assigned to SMF positions are not exempt from Air Force policies
       regarding mandatory retirement as outlined in AFI 36-3203, Service Retirements.
       1.1.2. Officers assigned to SMF positions compete for promotion in their respective
       competitive categories.
       1.1.3. Officers assigned to SMF positions are evaluated in accordance with provisions
       outlined in AFI 36-2406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation Systems.
       1.1.4. Appointment to a SMF position does not affect an officer’s aeronautical rating.
       Air Force policy regarding flying status of rated personnel applies equally to SMF
       officers.
    1.2. Qualifications. Officers considered for appointment as SMF must provide a written
    volunteer statement and meet the following criteria.
       1.2.1. Exceptional record based on performance reports and breadth of experience.
       1.2.2. Lieutenant Colonel or selected for promotion to Lieutenant Colonel. Majors may
       be considered under special circumstances as determined by the Dean of the Faculty.
       1.2.3. Appropriate level of developmental education completed at time of appointment.
       Lieutenant Colonels or Lieutenant Colonels (select) may be appointed to SMF positions
       prior to completing Senior Developmental Education as long as it is completed within 12
       months of their appointment date.
       1.2.4. Minimum of three years (normally four) with a terminal or equivalent degree as a
       faculty member at USAFA or Air University in the appropriate discipline.
       1.2.5. Served in at least one operational assignment or deployment within the past five
       years.
    1.3. Nomination. Nominating officials forward nominations for appointment of SMFs to
    the Dean of the Faculty for review and recommendation to the USAFA Superintendent
    (USAFA/CC). Nominating officials include PPs or Staff Agency Heads within the Dean of
    Faculty (DF). USAFA mission elements other than DF will submit nominations to
    USAFA/CC through the DF.
       1.3.1. Nominations recommended for approval by the Dean of the Faculty are forwarded
       to HQ USAFA Command Assignments (HQ USAFA/DPA) for processing.
USAFAI 36-3520 31 MARCH 2010                                                                 3


      1.3.2. HQ USAFA/DPA forwards nominations to the Air Force Personnel Center
      (AFPC) for functional coordination and approval. AFPC/DPA can disapprove the
      nomination based on needs of the Air Force. Nominations supported by AFPC/DPA are
      forwarded to USAFA/CC for final approval.
   1.4. Continuation. To be continued as an SMF, officers will normally complete a 1-year
   remote or 365-day extended deployment (minimum 179-day deployment in special cases)
   operational refreshing tour every 5 years as approved by the Dean of Faculty. In rare cases,
   120-day deployments may be approved by USAFA/CC. Upon completion, SMF officers will
   return to USAFA to sustain military governance of the faculty in coordination with the
   officer’s functional community.
   1.5. Termination. Terminations may be requested by the USAFA/CC, mission element
   leads (Dean of the Faculty, Commandant of Cadets, Director of Athletics and the USAFA
   Preparatory School Commander) or DF Department and Staff Agency Heads. Termination
   may also be initiated by promotion or requested voluntarily by the officer.
      1.5.1. The Dean of the Faculty makes recommendations on terminations.                The
      termination recommendations are forwarded to HQ USAFA/DPA for processing.
          1.5.1.1. HQ USAFA/DPA coordinates the termination request through USAFA/CC
          and forwards approved termination requests to AFPC for functional coordination,
          assignment, or retirement processing.
          1.5.1.2. An officer serving as SMF who is selected for promotion to Colonel will
          have his or her SMF status terminated at the end of the academic year, unless
          assigned sooner to an authorized Colonel position.
      1.5.2. Officers may request voluntary termination of SMF status only after serving a
      minimum of three years as an SMF.
          1.5.2.1. Officers submit requests for termination to their respective mission element
          lead for Dean of the Faculty coordination.
          1.5.2.2. Requests for reassignment of SMF officers who elect termination will be
          forwarded to HQ USAFA/DPA for appropriate processing.
          1.5.2.3. HQ USAFA/DPA coordinates the termination request through USAFA/CC
          and forwards approved termination requests to AFPC for functional coordination,
          assignment, or retirement processing.

2. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                           MICHAEL C. GOULD, Lt Gen, USAF
                                           Superintendent
4                                                     USAFAI 36-3520 31 MARCH 2010


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 33-332, Air Force Privacy Act Program
AFI 36-2110, Assignments
AFI 36-3203, Service Retirements
AFI 36-3501, Air Force Academy Operations
AFI 36-3406, Officer and Enlisted Evaluation System
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
AFPD 36-35, United States Air Force Academy

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFPC—Air Force Personnel Center
PP—Permanent Professor
SMF—Senior Military Faculty
USAFA—United States Air Force Academy
USAFA/DF—United States Air Force Academy, Dean of the Faculty
USAFA/CC—United States Air Force Academy, Superintendent/Commander
USAFA/DPA—United States Air Force Academy, Command Assignments
