BY ORDER OF THE                                         HQ UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY
SUPERINTENDENT                                                           INSTRUCTION 36-2806
                                                                                              9 JUNE 2008

                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                          THOMAS D. WHITE NATIONAL DEFENSE
                                                                            AWARD PROGRAM

                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:          Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                        www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: HQ USAFA/XPP                                                            Certified by: HQ USAFA/XP
                                                                                  (Lt Col Sean McFarland)
Supersedes USAFAI 36-2806, 22 February 2005                                                     Pages: 13

This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-28, Awards and Decorations Pro-
grams and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-2805, Special Trophies and Awards. It describes how to nomi-
nate, select, notify and present the Thomas D. White National Defense Award. This publication applies to
all personnel at the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA). This publication does not apply to the US
Air Force Reserve, Air National Guard and Civil Air Patrol. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form 847, Recommenda-
tion for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are dis-
posed of in accordance with the AFRIMS Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
This instruction requires collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974.
The authority to collect and maintain the records prescribed in this instruction is 10 United States Code
8013. System of records notice F036 United States Air Force Academy (USAFA) M, Thomas D. White
National Defense Award, applies.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES
This revision includes the following changes: Substantially revised and reorganized. Added background
information on the award in paragraph 1. Reorganized instruction to include adding tasked organizations
and responsibilities in paragraph 3. Added HQ USAFA/PL under senior staff involved in nomination/
selection of award recipient. Included USAFA foundations and organizations to be sent letters of invite to
nominate for the award. Added detailed milestone chart for tasks required under this instruction, sample
citation and certificate. Other edits made for clarity. A bar ( | ) indicates revision from the previous edi-
tion.
2                                                                         USAFAI36-2806 9 JUNE 2008


1. Background:
    1.1. The Thomas D. White National Defense Award was established on 1 March 1962 by the United
    States Air Force Academy. The USAFA award was modeled after the United States Military Acad-
    emy’s Sylvanus Thayer Award, presented annually to a US citizen “whose service and accomplish-
    ments in the national interest exemplify personal devotion to the ideals expressed in the West Point
    motto, ‘Duty, Honor, Country’.”
    1.2. Named in honor of General Thomas Dresser White, Air Force Chief of Staff from 1957 to 1961,
    the USAFA award is conferred each year on a US citizen who is judged to have contributed most sig-
    nificantly to the national defense and security of the United States. The award may be given to persons
    in any specific field of endeavor such as science, technology, leadership, management, national
    affairs, international affairs or a combination thereof.
    1.3. General White, who retired from active duty on 30 June 1961, after 41 years of distinguished mil-
    itary service, was the Air Force Chief of Staff during the formative years of the Air Force Academy,
    specifically its establishment at the present site and during its development as a national institution.
    He graduated from the US Military Academy in 1920, completed pilot training in 1925 and was sub-
    sequently transferred to the Air Corps in 1927. General White commanded the Air Force during a
    period of great change and growth. He urged the development of supersonic jet fighter aircraft, spear-
    headed the mixed force concept of strategic bombers and ballistic missiles and guided the Air Force
    into the aerospace era. His contributions to the nation are appropriate to the naming of this prestigious
    award in his honor, which is granted to other great Americans of his stature.

2. Who is Eligible for the Award:
    2.1. Each year, USAFA presents its highest honor, the Thomas D. White National Defense Award, to
    a citizen of the United States who has contributed significantly to the national security and defense of
    the United States. The award may be given for an achievement within a wide range of endeavors,
    including but not limited to science, technology, management, national affairs or a combination
    thereof. A presentation ceremony takes place each fall at USAFA where the recipient receives a cita-
    tion, framed certificate and Polaris statue.
    2.2. Military members, civil service employees and statutory appointees are eligible for nomination
    upon termination from government service. Qualifying contributions made both in and out of govern-
    ment service will be considered.
       2.2.1. Candidates who are current government employees are not normally eligible for nomina-
       tion. Only under special circumstances will government employees (active military, civil service
       or statutory appointees) currently on the federal payroll be considered for nomination.
       2.2.2. The Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC) will make the determination as to eligibility for any
       current government employees.
    2.3. A deceased citizen may be nominated for the award. Normally deceased individuals should only
    be nominated if death occurred during the period since nominations were made for the last award. The
    Superintendent will make the determination as to eligibility of any deceased individuals.

3. Responsibilities:
    3.1. The Director, Headquarters (HQ) USAFA, Plans and Programs (HQ USAFA/XP):
USAFAI36-2806 9 JUNE 2008                                                                            3


     3.1.1. Coordinates nominations and selection for the Thomas D. White Award:
        3.1.1.1. Prepares nomination request letters from Superintendent to USAFA senior staff,
        members of the USAFA Board of Visitors (BOV) and USAFA foundations and associated
        organizations.
            3.1.1.1.1. USAFA senior staff who may vote for candidates are: Vice Superintendent
            (HQ USAFA/CV), Commandant of Cadets (HQ USAFA/CW), Dean of the Faculty
            (HQ USAFA/DF), Director of Athletics (HQ USAFA/AD), 10th Air Base Wing Com-
            mander (10 ABW/CC), Director of Admissions (HQ USAFA/RR), Preparatory School
            Commander (HQ USAFA/PL) and Director of Plans and Programs (HQ USAFA/XP).
        3.1.1.2. Accepts nominations in format prescribed at Attachment 2 and reviews nominees to
        ensure eligibility criteria are met.
        3.1.1.3. May convene an evaluation committee consisting of representatives from each nomi-
        nating/voting organization to review the nominations and, in event of limited nominations,
        prepare additional nomination(s) for senior staff to consider for the award.
        3.1.1.4. Forwards nominations to USAFA senior staff to vote for their choice of recipient.
        Senior staff will review the nominee packages and vote for their choice, indicating preference
        order. Nonvoting individuals may augment the committee when a technical or professional
        expert is needed to advise them concerning the technical contributions of a nominee. For
        example, an aeronautical engineer may give advice on the significance of contributions made
        in the development of aerospace vehicles.
        3.1.1.5. Records and tallies votes as submitted by the Academy senior staff. Provides
        HQ USAFA/CC with the recommendations and voting results generated by USAFA senior
        staff, along with the final selection of the primary and alternate recipient.
        3.1.1.6. Prepares Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CC) and Secretary of the Air Force (SECAF)
        memorandums to the recipient notifying him or her of selection. Prepares HQ USAFA/CC
        memorandums to BOV announcing the recipient.
     3.1.2. Coordinates the Thomas D. White Award Presentation Ceremony:
        3.1.2.1. Coordinates with recipient for availability to attend presentation ceremony.
        3.1.2.2. Coordinates presentation date with HQ USAFA/CC, USAFA senior staff and USAFA
        Protocol (HQ USAFA/CCP).
        3.1.2.3. Prepares letter to recipient from Superintendent inviting him/her to USAFA to attend
        award ceremony/parade and offering various activities/events during visit.
        3.1.2.4. Prepares and issues appropriate invitational travel orders for the recipient.
        3.1.2.5. Develops and arranges for printing and/or engraving of presentation citation, certifi-
        cate with narrative, program, plate for the trophy and plate for permanent Thomas D. White
        Award plaque in Arnold Hall. The certificate and citation will be printed on special card stock
        containing the Thomas D. White Polaris and USAFA emblem. Ceremony programs will be
        printed on card stock in color.
        3.1.2.6. Obtains certificate/citation holder (usually blue vinyl) for mounting.
        3.1.2.7. Requests framing services from Training Devices for Thomas D. White certificate.
4                                                                         USAFAI36-2806 9 JUNE 2008


          3.1.2.8. Develops and coordinates an inclement weather alternate location for an indoor cere-
          mony, in conjunction with HQ USAFA/CW, other mission elements and venue owners. Coor-
          dinates inclement weather sequence of events.
          3.1.2.9. Coordinates with HQ USAFA/CWTE to develop parade/ceremony script.
          3.1.2.10. Schedules and conducts dry run of ceremony with principal POCs, if required.
          3.1.2.11. If necessary, ships the trophy and certificate/citation to the recipient.
       3.1.3. Procures Thomas D. White Award statues in accordance with appropriate government con-
       tracting procedures and per trophy requirements.
          3.1.3.1. Prepares AF Form 9, Request for Purchase, for purchase of statues when required.
          3.1.3.2. Maintains current inventory of statues and ensures proper protection of inventory.
       3.1.4. Maintains official record copy of program, citation, certificate, photos and other associated
       records.
    3.2. The Vice Superintendent (HQ USAFA/CV):
       3.2.1. Receives request for nomination and submits nomination package to XP as requested.
       3.2.2. Votes for preferred candidate for the award.
    3.3. The Commandant of Cadets (HQ USAFA/CW):
       3.3.1. Assigns a project officer to coordinate details of Thomas D. White Award Parade and Cer-
       emony.
       3.3.2. Arranges a Cadet Wing parade during which the presentation will be made.
       3.3.3. Schedules and plans an alternate ceremony venue in event of inclement weather.
       3.3.4. Provides a cadet announcer for parade/ceremony.
       3.3.5. Develops and coordinates the parade script.
       3.3.6. Schedules Cadet Wing parade practices as required.
       3.3.7. Coordinates with the USAFA Band to support the parade. Coordinates attendance of Cadet
       Drum and Bugle Corp if USAFA Band is not available.
       3.3.8. Coordinates cadet interaction opportunities for the award recipient during visit to USAFA
       (CWTS).
       3.3.9. Ensures that the accomplishments of the honored individual are incorporated into lessons
       and instruction in the weeks preceding the ceremony (CWTS).
    3.4. The Dean of the Faculty (HQ USAFA/DF):
       3.4.1. Assigns project officer to assist in coordinating details of ceremony and visit.
       3.4.2. Coordinates opportunities for the award recipient to visit or speak to cadet classes during
       visit to USAFA, as required.
       3.4.3. Ensures that the accomplishments of the honored individual are incorporated into lessons
       and classes in the weeks preceding the ceremony.
USAFAI36-2806 9 JUNE 2008                                                                               5


  3.5. The Director of Athletics (HQ USAFA/AD):
     3.5.1. Coordinates request for nominations within AD and submits nomination package to XP as
     requested.
     3.5.2. Votes for preferred candidate for the award.
     3.5.3. Assigns project officer to assist in coordinating details of ceremony and visit.
     3.5.4. Coordinates with CW and XP for an alternate ceremony venue in event of inclement
     weather.
     3.5.5. Ensures that the accomplishments of the honored individual are incorporated into lessons
     and classes in the weeks preceding the ceremony.
  3.6. The 10th Air Base Wing Commander (10 ABW/CC):
     3.6.1. Coordinates request for nominations within 10 ABW and submits nomination package to
     XP as requested.
     3.6.2. Votes for preferred candidate for the award.
     3.6.3. Assigns project officer to assist in coordinating details of ceremony and visit.
  3.7. The Director of Admissions (HQ USAFA/RR):
     3.7.1. Coordinates request for nominations within RR and submits nomination package to XP as
     requested.
     3.7.2. Votes for preferred candidate for the award.
  3.8. The Preparatory School Commander (HQ USAFA/PL):
     3.8.1. Coordinates request for nominations within PL and submits nomination package to XP as
     requested.
     3.8.2. Votes for preferred candidate for the award.
  3.9. The Director, Headquarters USAFA Public Affairs (HQ USAFA/PA):
     3.9.1. Assigns project officer to assist in coordinating details of ceremony and visit.
     3.9.2. Arranges for local and Air Force-wide publicity announcing the recipient, date of presenta-
     tion, etc. Note: HQ USAFA/PA will ensure publicity and announcements do not precede official
     notification of the recipient by SECAF and HQ USAFA/CC.
  3.10. The Director, Headquarters USAFA Protocol (HQ USAFA/CCP):
     3.10.1. Assigns project officer to assist HQ USAFA/XP in developing and coordinating the itiner-
     ary for the recipient’s visit, including all social events.
     3.10.2. Prepares and coordinates distinguished visitor (DV) itinerary, to include assigning and/or
     working with escort officer to coordinate arrival and departure of guest, DV lodging and transpor-
     tation, as required.
     3.10.3. Coordinates social events, which may include a dinner at The Carlton House and/or a
     reception at the Falcon Club or other location. Requests funds to pay for social events, as required.
6                                                                         USAFAI36-2806 9 JUNE 2008


       3.10.4. If recipient’s spouse accompanies recipient to USAFA, coordinates and executes a sepa-
       rate itinerary for her/him, if required.
       3.10.5. Develops guest lists in coordination with HQ USAFA/XP, HQ USAFA/CMA, Superinten-
       dent and recipient.
       3.10.6. Issues invitations for social functions and the presentation ceremony, takes RSVPs and
       produces final guest list for caterer.
       3.10.7. Prepares seating diagram and place cards for Staff Tower luncheon and other meals as
       required, ensuring the Superintendent approves the seating diagram.
       3.10.8. Determines protocol-seating order for distinguished visitors’ (DVs’) reviewing section if
       presentation takes place during a parade ceremony and for any social events connected with the
       award presentation.
       3.10.9. Requests cadet detail to usher and distribute programs to guests in the reviewing stand if
       ceremony takes place during a parade.
       3.10.10. Requests photographer via an AF Form 833, Multimedia Work Order, to HQ USAFA/
       PAVSC to take photos during the ceremony, luncheon, reception or any other official social gath-
       erings as required.
    3.11. Superintendent’s Commander’s Action Group (HQ USAFA/CCX):
       3.11.1. Prepares remarks to be used by the HQ USAFA/CC.

4. The Thomas D. White Award Ceremony:
    4.1. HQ USAFA/CC will present the award at a dedicated Thomas D. White Award Ceremony. Pre-
    sentation date is based on the schedule and availability of the recipient, but is typically scheduled for
    September or October. Presentation venues may include the following:
       4.1.1. Dedicated Saturday Stillman Field parade.
       4.1.2. Noon terrazzo or Stillman Field parade during the week.
       4.1.3. Before the start of a home football game. This ceremony must be kept very brief due to
       game timing requirements.
    4.2. Potential inclement weather ceremony locations include:
       4.2.1. Mitchell Hall Staff Tower during noon meal (may be used as inclement weather alternate
       location).
       4.2.2. Arnold Hall auditorium, typically with two Cadet Groups attending.
       4.2.3. Clune Arena.
       4.2.4. Field House All-Purpose Area.
       4.2.5. Doolittle Hall.
    4.3. The award consists of a trophy, certificate and citation. The recipient’s name is permanently dis-
    played on the Thomas D. White Award plaque in the Arnold Hall ballroom. A “tapping” ceremony
    where the recipient’s name is affixed to the permanent Thomas D. White Award plaque in Arnold Hall
    may follow the presentation of the award.
USAFAI36-2806 9 JUNE 2008                                                                                   7


   4.4. Social activities in conjunction with the award presentation may include a reception and a formal
   or informal dinner in honor of the recipient.
   4.5. Actions pertaining to this program will be completed in accordance with the timetable shown in
   Attachment 1.

5. Financial Administration:
   5.1. HQ USAFA/XP will:
      5.1.1. Budget and use appropriated funds to purchase the Thomas D. White National Defense
      Award trophies.
      5.1.2. Budget and fund the recipient’s travel, initiating invitational travel orders if required. Assist
      recipient in filing travel voucher when travel is complete.
   5.2. HQ USAFA/CCP will fund social events using either Official Representation Funds, donor funds
   or special morale and welfare funds, preparing the required funds request documents as appropriate.
   5.3. Financial Management and Comptroller, Financial Analysis Office (HQ USAFA/FMA) will cer-
   tify funds availability.

6. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.
   6.1. Prescribed Forms. No forms are prescribed by this instruction.
   6.2. Adopted Forms. AF Form 9, Request for Purchase; AF Form 833, Multimedia Work Order; AF
   Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; DD Form 1351-2, Travel Voucher or Sub-
   voucher; DD Form 1610, Request and Authorization for TDY Travel of DoD Personnel; Standard
   Form 1449, Solicitation/Contract/Order for Commercial Items; USAFA Form 53, Authorization for
   Invitational Travel.



                                               THOMAS G. PHILIPKOSKY, Colonel, USAF
                                               Director, Plans and Programs
8                                                                 USAFAI36-2806 9 JUNE 2008


                                       Attachment 1

                     THOMAS D. WHITE AWARD MILESTONES
          (BASED ON PRESENTATION DURING A FALL CADET WING PARADE)


      DATE          OPR                                    ACTION
    TDW-12 mos       XP   Budget and use appropriated funds to purchase sufficient quantity of
                          Thomas D. White National Defense Award trophies.
    TDW-10 mos      XP    Request current Board of Visitors listing (w/addresses) from
                          HQ USAFA/CCX.
    TDW-9 mos       XP    Prepares nomination request letters from Superintendent to USAFA
    (usually Jan)         senior staff, members of the BOV and USAFA foundations and
                          associated organizations.
    TDW-7 mos       XP    Forward completed nomination packages to USAFA senior staff for
                          vote.
    TDW-6 mos       XP    Tally votes and provide HQ USAFA/CC the recommendations and
                          voting results of the Academy senior staff, along with the final selection
                          of the primary and alternate recipient.
    TDW-5 mos       XP    Prepare HQ USAFA/CC memorandums to BOV announcing the
                          recipient.
    TDW-5 mos       XP    Prepare and send notification letters from HQ USAFA/CC and SECAF.
    TDW-4 mos       XP    Coordinate presentation date with recipient, HQ USAFA/CC, USAFA
                          senior staff and HQ USAFA/CCP.
    TDW-4 mos       XP    Prepare letter to recipient from Superintendent inviting him/her to
                          USAFA to attend award ceremony/parade and offering various
                          activities/events during visit.
    TDW-4 mos       XP    Determine ceremony venue and sequence of events, coordinating with
                          all major mission elements involved.
    TDW-3 mos       XP    Coordinate with AD if using athletic facilities (Clune Arena/
                          multi-purpose area).
     TDW-3 mos      XP    Prepare and issue invitational travel orders, if required.
    TDW-75 days     CW    Request performance of USAFA Band via memorandum to
                          HQ USAFA/BA, if required for parade.
    TDW-60 days     PA    Arranges for local and Air Force-wide publicity announcing the
                          recipient, date of presentation, etc.
    TDW-60 days     CCP   Request photographer via an AF Form 833 to HQ USAFA/PAVSC to
                          take photos during the ceremony, luncheon, reception or any other
                          official social gatherings as required.
    TDW-60 days     XP    Develop and arrange for printing and/or engraving of presentation
                          citation, certificate, program, plate for the trophy and plate for
                          permanent Thomas D. White Award plaque in Arnold Hall.
USAFAI36-2806 9 JUNE 2008                                                                              9


    DATE              OPR                                    ACTION
  TDW-60 days         CW      Coordinate with Cadet Drum & Bugle Corp for parade performance, if
                              USAFA Band is not available.
  TDW-60 days          XP     Coordinate the script for award ceremony with cadet MC.
  TDW-60 days          XP   Determine an inclement weather alternate location and sequence of
                            events for an indoor ceremony, in conjunction with HQ USAFA/CW.
                            Coordinate with venue to reserve facilities as required.
  TDW-60 days          PA   Launch publicity program.
  TDW-60 days         CCP Determine and plan other social events as required, including
                            coordinating guest lists, developing and sending invitations and taking
                            RSVPs.
  TDW-50 days        XP/CW Schedule and plan an alternate ceremony venue and sequence of events
                            in event of inclement weather.
  TDW-45 days         CCP Request cadet detail to usher and distribute programs to guests in the
                            reviewing stand if ceremony takes place during a parade.
  TDW-30 days         CCP Finalize DV itinerary, including travel arrangements, social events,
                            tours, etc. Develop spouse itinerary, if required.
  TDW-30 days          XP   Finalize award ceremony, including sequence of events, script, program,
                            citation and all award elements.
  TDW-30 days         CCP Request Public Address (PA) support as necessary depending on the
                            determined location via a USAFA Form 79 to 10 CS/SCXSCP.
  TDW-14 days        DF/CW Ensure the accomplishments of the honored individual are incorporated
                            into lessons and instruction in the weeks preceding the ceremony.
  TDW-14 days         CCX Prepare and coordinate remarks for HQ USAFA/CC.
  TDW-14 days         CCP Prepare seating diagram and place cards for Staff Tower luncheon and
                            other meals as required, submitting for Superintendent approval.
  TDW-14 days         CCP Prepare seating diagram for parade reviewing stand, submitting for
                            Superintendent approval.
   TDW-7 days        XP/All Schedule and conduct dry run of ceremony with principal POCs.
   TDW-4 days         CW    Schedule Cadet Wing parade practices as required.
     TDW               CC   Thomas D. White National Defense Award Ceremony held and trophy/
                            citation presented to recipient.
 (usually Sep/Oct)
      TDW+             XP     Assist recipient in filing travel voucher when travel is complete.
      TDW+             XP     If required, ship the trophy and certificate/citation to the recipient
                              through USAFA Federal Express.
10                                                              USAFAI36-2806 9 JUNE 2008


                                        Attachment 2

                                  SAMPLE NOMINATION



          NOMINATION FOR THOMAS D. WHITE NATIONAL DEFENSE AWARD


NAME:

TITLE:

PRESENT POSITION:

PRIOR AWARDS:

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH: (You may attach a copy of the individual’s biography, if you wish.
Please summarize here the individual’s contributions to national defense.)


NARRATIVE JUSTIFICATION: (Please explain why you feel this individual should receive this
award.)




SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS:

To ensure equity during the deliberation process, packages should not exceed five typewritten,
double-spaced pages and must be submitted to HQ USAFA/XPP NLT ________ (date). This award is
governed by USAFAI 36-2806, Thomas D. White National Defense Award Program, which is available
at: http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/shared/media/epubs/USAFAI36-2806.pdf.

If you have any questions, please contact HQ USAFA/XP at (719) 333-3451 or DSN 333-3451. You
may submit your nomination package via one of the following methods:

Mail:     HQ USAFA/XPP
          2304 Cadet Drive, Suite 3800
          USAF Academy CO 80840-5002

Fax:      719-333-4309
          HQ USAFA/XPP

E-mail:   special.events@usafa.af.mil
USAFAI36-2806 9 JUNE 2008                                                                                         11


                                                  Attachment 3

                                             SAMPLE CITATION


     THE 2005 THOMAS D. WHITE NATIONAL DEFENSE AWARD

                                                    O
                                            PRESENTED TO
                              GENERAL RICHARD B. MYERS
General Richard Bowman Myers distinguished himself by exceptionally meritorious contributions to national
defense and security of the United States spanning four decades of military service.

General Myers retired as the 15th Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on 1 October, 2005, after serving over 40
years in the US Air Force. During his term as Chairman, he served as principal military adviser to the President,
the Secretary of Defense and the National Security Council.

General Myers led the US Armed Forces during a time of great threat to the Nation’s security. He began his term
just a few weeks after the September 11th attacks, and was instrumental in guiding the US strategy for the War on
Terrorism. During his tenure as Chairman, the US led international efforts to topple the Taliban and deny Al
Qaeda’s safe haven in Afghanistan, and to defeat the Saddam Hussein regime in Iraq. He also oversaw the US
military’s role in relief efforts for the tsunami that struck the Pacific in December of 2004, and Hurricanes Katrina
and Rita in 2005.

A native of Kansas City, Kansas, and a 1965 graduate of Kansas State University, General Myers also served as
Vice Chairman and Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He has held command positions at every
level, including Commander of US Space Command, North American Aerospace Defense Command, Pacific Air
Forces, US Forces Japan and two fighter wings. A fighter pilot with over 4,100 hours, General Myers logged more
than 600 combat hours during the Vietnam conflict.

His legacy can be found throughout the US Armed Forces and throughout the world: in the 50 million newly-freed
people in Afghanistan and Iraq, in countless lives saved from natural disasters, and in a transformed military better
prepared to protect the homeland and meet future threats.

General Myers was the recipient of numerous military awards and decorations including nineteen Air Medals, the
Distinguished Flying Cross and the Legion of Merit. He was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom on
November 9, 2005.

General Myers is on several public and non-profit boards and currently lectures nationally on national security
issues and leadership. He is Foundation Professor of Military History and Leadership at Kansas State University
and holds the Colin Powell Chair of Leadership, Ethics and Character at National Defense University. He lives in
the Washington, D.C. area with his wife, Mary Jo. He has two daughters and a son and, to his great joy, a growing
number of grandchildren.

The United States Air Force Academy is honored to present the 2005 Thomas D. White National Defense Award
to General Richard Myers.
                           Attachment 4




                                                                                12
                       SAMPLE CERTIFICATE



     UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY

                     This is to certify that

THE 2005 THOMAS D. WHITE NATIONAL DEFENSE AWARD

                         is awarded to

        GENERAL RICHARD B. MYERS
                              for
        exceptionally meritorious contributions to the




                                                                                USAFAI36-2806 9 JUNE 2008
      National Defense and Security of the United States.
      Given under my hand this 19th day of March 2007.
                                                _____________________________
                                                              JOHN F. REGNI
                                               LIEUTENANT GENERAL, USAF
                                                           SUPERINTENDENT
USAFAI36-2806 9 JUNE 2008                                                                       13


                                          Attachment 5

                              SAMPLE SEQUENCE OF EVENTS


                     2006 Thomas D. White National Defense Award Ceremony
                                           In honor of
                                   General Ronald R. Fogleman


                                     Wednesday, 2 May 2007


 (classes start 15 minutes early in morning, resume regular schedule after lunch)
UOD: Blues all day, Service Dress for parade participants/attendees
0735-0828                1st period Academics
0835-0928                2nd period Academics
0935-1028                3rd period Academics
1035-1128                4th period Academics
1045-1130                Pre-Ceremony Reception (Library)
1130                     Guests transported to the parade
1145-1245                Cadet Wing Parade (Terrazzo)
                                Adjutant’s Call
                                  March On
                                  Sound Off
                           Report and Publish the Orders
                                Officers Center
                       Presentation of Command (Honors)
                                National Anthem
1200-1205                2006 Thomas D. White Presentation
1205-1235                Cadet Wing Pass-In-Review; march into Mitchell Hall
1240                     Guests transported to Staff Tower
1245-1320                Lunch at Mitchell Hall
1320                     Gen Fogleman meets with media on Staff Tower (tentative)
1330-1623                Classes resume regular SOC
1340                     Depart en route Arnold Hall (access via east entrance from terrazzo)
1345-1400                “Tapping” ceremony at permanent TD White plaque, Arnold Hall balcony
1400-1800                Free time
1800                     Dinner in honor of Gen & Mrs. Fogleman (The Carlton House)
