BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN EUROPE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCES IN                                     INSTRUCTION 32-7070
EUROPE
                                                                                   12 JULY 2011

                                                                                Civil Engineering

                                                      PREVENTING AND MITIGATING THE
                                                           RISK OF LEGIONELLA IN THE
                                                                     UNITED KINGDOM


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ USAFE/A7PO                                                 Certified by: HQ USAFE/A7P
                                                                             (Col R. Scott Jarvis)
                                                                                       Pages: 23


This instruction outlines the policy, procedures, responsibilities, and technical standards for the
prevention and mitigation of Legionella risk at United States Air Forces in Europe (USAFE)
Installations in the United Kingdom (UK). It applies to base civil engineers in the UK involved
in preventing and mitigating the risk of Legionella. Legionella control is governed in the UK by
the Health & Safety Commission Legionnaires‘ Disease: The Control of Legionella Bacteria in
Water Systems, Approved Code of Practice & Guidance, ―L8‖, and for United States personnel
by OSHA Technical Manual, TED 1-0.15A, Section III: Chapter 7, Legionnaires‘ Disease,
ASHRAE Guideline 12-2000, ASHRAE Standard, Minimizing the Risk of Legionellosis
Associated with Building Water Systems, MOD Joint Services Publication (JSP) 375 Vol 2
leaflet 19 Control of Legionella (including hot & cold water systems a nd Cooling Towers) and
UFC 3-240-13FN, Industrial Water Treatment Operation and Maintenance. This publication
does not apply to the Air National Guard (ANG) and the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC)
and their units. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office
of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the appropriate functional‘s chain of
command. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication
are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of
Records, and disposed of in accordance with Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/. See Attachment 1 for a glossary of references and supporting
information.
 2                                                                                      USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011



        1.     Background. ...................................................................................................       2
        2.     Primary Definitions: ........................................................................................         2
        3.     Responsibilities. .............................................................................................       3
        4.     Risk Prevention and Mitigation Program. .........................................................                     6
        5.     Outbreak Actions. ...........................................................................................         8
        6.     Training/Equipment. .......................................................................................           8
        7.     Records. .........................................................................................................    8
        8.     Water Treatment Methods. ..............................................................................               8

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                       9

Attachment 2—SAMPLE INSTALLATION WRITTEN LEGIONELLA RISK
             PREVENTION/MITIGATION PROGRAM FORMAT                                                                                   13

Attachment 3—MINIMIUM RECOMMENDED RECURRING WORK PROGRAM                                                                            17


1. Background. Legionnaire‘s Disease is a potentially fatal pneumonia caused by Legionella
bacteria. Legionella is a naturally occurring bacterium that is present in most all water sources.
It belongs to a common group of water borne bacteria called Coliforms. Preventing and
mitigating the risk posed by a Legionella bacteria bloom is a serious maintenance concern in the
UK. The UK Health & Safety Execuive developed the Approved Code of Practice and
Guidance, The Control of Legionella Bacteria in Water Systems (L8) and requires standards and
procedures that are more protective than compared to US standards. Given the additional UK
guidance requirements on preventing and mitigating Legionella, it is necessary to clarify how
USAFE Civil Engineers will conduct operations to satisfy US Force obligations in meeting the
substantive requirements of the legislation.
2. Primary Definitions:
     2.1. The Control of Legionella Bacteria in Water Systems, Approved Code of Practice &
     Guidance, (L8): This document contains guidance issued by the United Kingdom‘s Health
     and Safety Executive. This Approved Code of Practice gives practical advice on the
     requirements of the Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974 (HSWA) and the Control of
     Substances Hazardous to Health Regulations 1999 (COSHH) concerning the risk fro m
     exposure to legionella bacteria. This is known as the Approved Code of Practice (L8).
     2.2. Legionella Risk Control: A method of preventing/mitigating the likelihood of
     Legionella bacteria growth in areas most likely to promote such activity.
     2.3. Legionella Risk Assessment (LRA): An evaluation that identifies facility/facilities,
     systems, and unique pieces of equipment that may pose significant risks if a Legionella
     bloom occurs and requires identification in the Installation Written Legionella Risk
     Prevention/Mitigation Program. All assessments must be performed by a competent and
     suitably trained risk assessor; and after the health risk (LRA) is verified by a competent
     medical authority, LRAs are given to the CE community if mitigation is required. Only a
USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011                                                                      3


   recognized, competent authority shall determine if the presence of Legionella exists. LRAs
   typically consider risk factors such as: 1) conditions suitable for multiplication of the
   organisms (e.g. suitable temperature (20deg C – 45deg C), and a source of nutrients such as
   sludge, scale, rust, algae, and other organic matter, 2) a means of creating and disseminating
   breathable droplets such as the aerosol generated by a cooling tower or shower, 3) the
   presence of Legionella bacteria and 4) the presence and numbers of people who may be
   exposed, especially in premises where occupants are particularly vulnerable such as medical
   facilities.
   2.4. Prevention of Legionella Risk: A means to minimize potential for conditions that
   promote excessive Legionella growth primarily through CE Recurring Work Program (RWP)
   and proper construction installation techniques.
   2.5. Mitigation of Legionella Risk: A means to lessen the likelihood of Legionella growth
   primarily through removal or replacement of equipment and/or other control measures.
   2.6. Legionella Risk Prevention Program: An overarching base level program that involves
   the Installation Commander, RAF Commander, Team Aerospace Medicine, Base Civil
   Engineer, Defence Estates and other supporting units. The base level created program is
   structured to support the Installation Written Legionella Risk Prevention/ Mitigation
   Program.
   2.7. Installation Written Legionella Risk Prevention/Mitigation Program: The Installation
   Written Legionella Risk Prevention/Mitigation Program is a management document that
   identifies key personnel, organizational responsibilities, maintains previous LRAs, and
   identifies significant Legionella risks at the installation. The document also shows a
   prioritized Legionella mitigation projects list and provides overarching details on the
   maintenance and documentation program. The Installation Written Legionella Risk
   Prevention/Mitigation Program is specific to each installation and covers the requirements
   highlighted in the Approved Code of Practice (L8). The Installation Written Legionella Risk
   Prevention/Mitigation Program is intended to provide overarching information that is
   supplemented in more detail by the base Recurring Work Program (RWP) Maintenance
   Action/Log Sheets. A sample format is included in Attachment 2.
3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. USAFE Civil Engineer:
       3.1.1. Establishes USAFE Civil Engineering policy and ensures funds are distributed to
       bases for effective maintenance and Legionella risk control programs.
       3.1.2. Serves as the point of contact for UK Defence Estates organizations related to the
       prevention and mitigation portion of the Legionella Risk Control program in the UK.
   3.2. USAFE SG:
       3.2.1. Establishes policy and guidance related to risk of Legionellosis and Legionella risk
       control.
   3.3. Defence Estates:
       3.3.1. Conducts stewardship responsibilities for Ministry of Defence (MOD) installations
       made available to the United States Force.
4                                                               USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011


       3.3.2. Advises USAFE/A7PO, USAFE/A7AVQ and USAFE/SGP on UK legislatio n and
       technical guidance concerning Legionella in order to prevent and/or mitigate risk.
       3.3.3. Identifies and notifies local UK authorities and BCE of cooling towers and
       evaporative condensers (to include removal of equipment) as required by the Cooling
       Towers and Evaporative Condenser Regulations 1992.
    3.3.4. Provides information to all appropriate parties. Coordinates confirmation/validation,
    regarding Legionella outbreaks, as required by the Health and Safety Executive with the
    Chief, Aerospace Medicine.
       3.3.5. Reviews individual building LRAs and advises on base Legionella control
       program.
       3.3.6. Ensures Legionella risk control measures are incorporated into design and
       handover procedures in accordance with the Approved Code of Practice (L8) on all
       works contracted via Defence Estates.
       3.3.6.1. Under Para 71 of the Approved Code of Practice (L8) ensure that the duties for
       suppliers of products and services are effective, safe and without risks to health.
       Suppliers must also be notified on areas of concern to the risk for Legionella which they
       are not contracted to deal with and may have no commercial interest.
    3.4. Installation Commande rs:
    3.4.1. Maintains overall responsibility for the safety, health and welfare of all personnel on
    the installation.
    3.5. RAF Commander:
       3.5.1. Advises and liaises with MOD personnel on Legionella issues.
    3.6. 3 AF –UK/JA:
       3.6.1. Provides legal advice on policies and procedures with respect to international
       agreements and US requirements.
    3.7. Base Civil Engineer :
       3.7.1. Responsible for the management of the prevention and mitigation of Legionella
       risk by allocating fiscal and manpower resources.
       3.7.2. Approves the Installation Written Legionella Risk Prevention/ Mitigation Program
       3.7.3. Appoints staff to execute the Installation Written Legionella Risk Prevention/
       Mitigation Program and ensures they are trained in these duties.
           3.7.3.1. Appoints the Nominated Person to write and direct the Installation Written
           Legionella Risk Prevention/ Mitigation Program, typically the CE Operations Flight
           Commander.
       3.7.4. Coordinates and assists Team Aerospace Medicine, Public Health, Base Safety
       and Defence Estates Manager in response to any identified Legionella bloom situations as
       outlined in AFI 48-144, Table A3.1
    3.7.5. Provides the prevention/mitigation plan for all risks identified by LRA.
USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011                                                                   5


     3.7.6. At a minimum, ensures the following documents are maintained for a rolling 5
     year timeframe: 1) This USAFEI, 2) official appointment letters, 3) LRAs and
     documentation of subsequent reviews, 4) approved installation Legionella risk
     prevention/mitigation program, 5) copies of any formal notifications from Defence
     Estates or Installation Commander to UK authorities and base populace, and 6) records
     on actions taken to control the risk (through prevention or mitigation such as work order
     numbers and maintenance action sheets).
     3.7.7. Validates Legionella control measures are incorporated into design and handover
     procedures in accordance with the Approved Code of Practice (L8).
     3.7.8. Reports to USAFE/A7PO and USAFE/A7AV as required.
  3.8. The Nominated Person (Typically CE Ope rations Flight Commande r):
     3.8.1. Writes the Installation Written Legionella Risk Prevention/Mitigation Program.
     The Installation Written Legionella Risk Prevention/Mitigation Program is a management
     document that identifies key personnel, organizational responsibilities, maintains
     previous LRAs, and identifies significant Legionella risks at the installation. The
     document also shows a prioritized Legionella mitigation projects list and provides
     overarching details on the maintenance and documentation program. The Installation
     Written Legionella Risk Prevention/Mitigation Program is specific to each installation
     and covers administrative requirements highlighted in the Approved Code of Practice
     (L8). The Installation Written Legionella Risk Prevention/Mitigation Program is
     intended to provide overarching information that is supplemented in more detail by the
     base Recurring Work Program (RWP) Maintenance Action/Log Sheets. A sample format
     is included in Attachment 2.
     3.8.2. Ensures initial LRAs are reviewed in a timely manner and reviewed every two
     years or after specific changes to the systems that alters the conditions of the LRA.
     3.8.3. Ensures the Written Legionella Risk Prevention/Mitigation Program is updated
     (annually or as conditions change). Staffs the updates to the Written Legionella Risk
     Prevention/Mitigation Program with appropriate base agencies for the Base Civil
     Engineer approval.
     3.8.4. Directs the implementation of the Installation Written Legionella Risk Prevention/
     Mitigation Program by:
        3.8.4.1. Allocating resources as required.
        3.8.4.2. Approving all applicable Base Recurring Work Program on an annual basis
        and ensuring Legionella prevention control measures are included.
        3.8.4.3. Allocating work to be performed by the Civil Engineer Labor Force (CELF)
        and contract service providers including monitoring the execution of such contract
        work. In the UK, this is often contracted by Defence Estates and executed by a
        Facility Support Contract (FSC). The Operations Flight Commander shall receive
        regular quality control metrics on the performance of the CELF and contractors.
        3.8.4.4. Training the Operational Staff, Facility Managers, Dorm Managers, and
        Housing Flight Personnel on Legionella prevention/mitigation responsibilities.
 6                                                               USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011


            3.8.4.5. Establishing a 24 hours/day and 7 days/week reactive plan (personnel recall,
            notification procedures, etc) with personnel trained on the Legio nella risks and
            prevention measures where applicable.
            3.8.4.6. Coordinating for Legionella sampling where necessary.
     3.9. Ope rational Staff: (Will include but not be limited to: Maintenance Engineers, CELF,
     Housing/Facility Managers, Defence Estates personnel, and contractors)
        3.9.1. Reviews all LRAs and provides recommendations for inclusion within the
        Installation Written Legionella Risk Prevention/ Mitigation Program.
        3.9.2. Executes recurring work program maintenance and monitoring in accordance with
        the established Installation Written Legionella Risk Prevention/Mitigation Program.
     3.10. Team Aerospace Medicine :
        3.10.1. Advises Base Civil Engineers and installation Commanders on medical matters
        concerning Legionella issues and cases of outbreaks so the Base Civil Engineer can
        prevent or mitigate the risk.
        3.10.2. Provides LRA health risk assessments and provides validation of LRAs.
     3.10.3. Provides Legionella outbreak investigation and guidance.
4. Risk Prevention and Mitigation Program.
     4.1. Inte rpreting the Legionella Risk Assessment (LRA).
        4.1.1. Where the LRA demonstrates that there is no reasonably foreseeable risk or that
        risks are insufficient and unlikely to increase, no further assessment or measures are
        necessary. However, should the situation change, the LRA must be reviewed and updates
        must be incorporated.
        4.1.2. When risks are clearly identified, the Base Civil Engineer will implement
        measures to prevent and/or mitigate the specific Legionella risk. These risks will be
        incorporated into the Installation Written Legionella Risk Prevention/Mitigation
        Program.
            4.1.2.1. Where health risks are present and verified by Team Aerospace Medicine,
            the occupants of the facility must be notified of the risk and the prevention/mitigation
            actions taking place.
            4.1.2.2. Where cooling towers and/or evaporative condensers are present, Defence
            Estates will notify the UK Authority and BCE as required by the Cooling Towers and
            Evaporative Condenser Regulations 1992 (para 3.3.3). Defence Estates will also
            notify the UK Authority when such devices have been removed.
     4.2. Preventing the Risk.
        4.2.1. The Operations Flight Commander will approve all applicable Base Recurring
        Work Program on an annual basis and allocate resources to execute the progra m either by
        CELF or contract personnel. The RWP efforts will include the recommended practices as
        noted in Attachment 3, however the adopted must be equal to or better than the ACOP L8
        requirements (as noted in Attachment 3).
USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011                                                                 7


     4.2.2. The Operations Flight Commander will ensure specific Legionella risk prevention
     measures are included in the Maintenance Action Sheets/Log Sheets for specific pieces of
     equipment/real property and highlight those items in the Installation Written Legionella
     Risk Prevention/Mitigation Program.
        4.2.2.1. The Recommended Recurring Work Program table at Attachment 3
        summarizes Health and Safety Commission L8, OSHA Technical Manual, TED 1-
        0.15A, and ASHRAE Guideline 12-2000 guidance. The minimum standards, per
        maintenance line item, are identified by the bold font. When creating the Recurring
        Work Program and associated Maintenance Action/Log Sheets, the Operations Flight
        Commander will consider the facility specific risk assessments and the minimum
        standards as identified in the table at Attachment 3.
     4.2.3. The Operations Flight Commander will make base staff (facility managers,
     dormitory managers, CE personnel, etc) aware of their responsibilities through
     Maintenance Action Sheets, Log Sheets, facility manager handbooks, formal letters, or
     other written notification means. Additionally, the Operations Flight Commander will
     ensure the staff are adequately trained to meet their responsibilities.
     4.2.4. The Recurring Work Program (RWP) will clearly outline responsibilities for the
     following organizations/personnel:
        4.2.4.1. Utilities Shop. The Utilities Shop typically will execute the RWP and
        maintain maintenance records required for Cold Water Systems. The Utilities Shop
        also will typically run installation water treatment operations and maintain plumbing
        systems base wide.
        4.2.4.2. Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC) Shop. The HVAC
        shop will typically execute RWP and maintain maintenance records required for
        domestic hot water systems and HVAC systems to include cooling towers and
        evaporative condensers.
        4.2.4.3. Facility Managers. Facility Managers may be utilized to flush emergency
        eye wash stations and flush unused taps/showers as per Attachment 3. Also, Facility
        Managers will monitor proper Legionella prevention control measures and monitor
        potential breeding situations on their equipment (i.e. Spas). Facility Managers will
        maintain records on all activities.
        4.2.4.4. Dorm Managers. Dorm Managers may be required to execute RWP actions
        and maintain records on certain dorm requirements. For example, dorm managers
        may need to flush showers and taps in empty rooms as per Attachment 3.
        4.2.4.5. Lodging Maintenance. Lodging Maintenance personnel may execute RWP
        actions and maintain records for certain lodging requirements. For example, they
        may need to flush showers and taps in empty rooms as per Attachment 3.
        4.2.4.6. Housing Maintenance. Housing Maintenance personnel will execute RWP
        maintenance records in housing units. For example, they should flush s howers and
        taps in empty housing units as per Attachment 3.
        4.2.4.7. As determined necessary, the Operations Flight Commander may utilize
        contracted service provider to execute risk assessments (when Defence Estates or
 8                                                              USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011


            Team Aerospace Medicine are physically unable to provide assessment),
            maintenance, and/or training. The service providers should maintain records that are
            to be made available to the Operations Flight Commander, Base Civil Engineer,
            Defence Estates, Team Aerospace Medicine and Installation Commander as required.
     4.3. Eliminating/Mitigating the Risk.
        4.3.1. Where feasible, the risk should be eliminated as soon as possible. Examples of
        this type of work may include: removing cold water header tanks and dead legs, and
        installing recirculation pumps.
        4.3.2. Future year infrastructure plan (5-year plan) will be created and included in the
        Installation Written Legionella Risk Prevention/Mitigation Program. The plan will
        include a prioritized list of future project or work order efforts to elim inate/mitigate
        Legionella risks.
5. Outbreak Actions.
     5.1. Appendix 2 of ACOP L8 includes a checklist entitled ―Action in the event of an
     outbreak.‖ Reference this checklist for specific guidance unique to the UK along with
     guidance from the installation Team Aerospace Medicine (as the lead agency).
6. Training/Equipment.
     6.1. The Operations Flight Commander and staff will, at a minimum, receive awareness
     level training via industry recognized training centre/persons upon assumption of specific
     responsibilities related to this USAFEI and will receive annual refresher training. Additional
     technical training may be desirable for certain key staff.
     6.2. When utilizing Facility Managers, Dormitory Managers, Lodging and Housing
     Maintenance personnel to undertake Legionella risk control measures, the Operations Flight
     Commander will provide training, tools, and personal protective equipment to enable safe
     execution of their duties. The personnel should understand task responsibilities, frequencies,
     and be able to maintain training and maintenance records.
7. Records. All Legionella Risk Prevention Program Records should be kept for a minimum
five years.
8. Wate r Treatment Methods. The Recommended RWP Actions at Attachment 3 are based on
Legionella risk controls utilizing chlorine water treatment and temperature control regimes. The
L8 does recognize the use of other treatment methods such as Biocide treatment, Chlorine
Dioxide, Ionization, Ozone, and UV Treatment. If utilizing these methods, please cons ult the L8
for recommended Legionella risk prevention maintenance practices. When considering any
change to the current treatment method, consult USAFE/A7PO and USAFE/A7AV for
direction/approval.




                                              ROBERT E. MORIARTY, Colonel, USAF
                                              The USAFE Civil Engineer
USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011                                                                      9


                                         Attachme nt 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Health & Safety Commission Legionnaires‘ Disease: The Control of Legionella Bacteria in
Water Systems, Approved Code of Practice & Guidance, ―L8‖
MOD Joint Services Publication (JSP) 375 Vol. 2 Leaflet 19: Control of Legionella (Including
Hot & Cold Water Systems and Cooling Towers)
American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE)
Guideline 12-2000, ASHRAE Standard, Minimizing the Risk of Legionellosis Associated with
Building Water Systems
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Technical Manual, TED 1-0.15A,
Section III: Chapter 7, Legionnaires‘ Disease.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 Sep 2009

Terms
UK LA— (Local Authority) US equivalent City/Town/District Council
Aerosol— A suspension in a gaseous medium of solid particles, liquid particles or solid and
liquid particles having negligible falling velocity.
Algae— A small, usually aquatic, plant which requires light to grow, often found on exposed
areas of cooling towers.
Air-conditioning— A form of air treatment whereby temperature humidity and air cleanliness
are all controlled within limits determined by the requirements of the air-conditioned enclosure.
Antibodies— Substances in the blood which destroy or neutralize various toxins or components
of bacteria known generally as antigens. The antibodies are formed as a result of the
introduction into the body of the antigen to which they are antagonistic as in all infectious
diseases.
Bacteria (singular bacterium)— a microscopic, unicellular (or more rarely multicellular)
organism.
Biocide— A substance which kills micro-organisms.
Biofilm— A community of bacteria and other micro-organisms, embedded in a protective layer
with entrained debris, attached to a surface.
Blow-down/Bleed-off— Water discharged from the system to control the concentration of salts
or other impurities in the circulating water; usually expressed as a percentage of re-circulating
water flow.
Calorifie r— An apparatus used for the transfer of heat to water in a vessel by indirect means,
the source of heat being contained within a pipe or coil immersed in the water.
 10                                                              USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011


Chlorine— An element used in disinfection.
Cold Water Service (CWS)— Installation of plant, pipes, and fitting in which cold water is
stored, distributed and subsequently discharged.
Cooling Towe r— An apparatus through which warm water is discharged against an air stream;
in doing so part of the water is evaporated to saturate the air and this cools the water. The cooler
water is usually pumped to a heat exchanger to be reheated and recycled through the tower.
Concentration Factor— Compares the level of dissolved solids in the cooling water with that
dissolved in the make- up water (also known as cycle of concentration). Usually determined by
comparison of either the chloride or magnesium hardness concentration.
Corrosion Inhibitors— Chemicals which protect metals by: (a) passivating the metal by the
promotion of a thin metal oxide film (anodic inhibitors); or (b) physically forming a thin barrier
film by controlled deposition (cathodic inhibitors).
Dead-end/Blind-end— A length of pipe closed at one end through which no water passes.
Dead Leg— Pipes leading to a fitting through which water only passes when there is draw-off
from the fitting.
Dip Slide(s)— A dip slide is a means of testing the microbial content of liquids. It consists of a
plastic carrier bearing a sterile culture medium which can be dipped in the liquid to be sampled.
It is then incubated to allow microbial growth. The resulting microbial colonies are estimated by
reference to a chart.
Disinfection— A process which destroys or irreversibly inactivates micro-organisms and
reduces their number to a non-hazardous level.
Distribution Circuit— Pipework which distributes water from hot or cold water plant to one or
more fittings/appliances.
Domestic Water Services— Hot and cold water intended for personal hygiene, culinary,
drinking water or other domestic purposes.
Drift— Circulating water lost from the tower as liquid droplets entrained in the exhaust air
stream; usually expressed as a percentage of circulating water flow but for more precise work it
is parts of water per million by weight of air for a given liq uid to gas ratio.
Drift Eliminator— More correctly referred to as drift reducers or minimizer‘s - equipment
containing a complex system of baffles designed to remove water droplets from cooling tower air
passing through it.
Evaporative Condenser— A heat exchanger in which refrigerant is condensed by a
combination of air movement and water sprays over its surface.
Evaporative Cooling— A process by which a small portion of a circulating body of water is
caused to evaporate thereby taking the required latent heat of vaporization from the
remainder of the water and cooling it.
Fill/Packing— That portion of a cooling tower which constitutes its primary heat transfer
surface; sometimes called ‗packing‘ or ‗pack‘.
Fouling— Organic growth or other deposits on heat transfer surfaces causing loss in efficiency.
USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011                                                                      11


Half-life— Ratio of system volume to purge rate.
Hot Water Service (HWS)— Installation of plant, pipes and fittings in which water is heated,
distributed and subsequently discharged (not including cold water feed tank or cistern).
Legionnaires’ Disease— A form of pneumonia caused by Legionella bacteria.
Legionella— Type of aerobic bacterium which is found predominantly in warm water
environments. (singular of Legionellae).
Make-up Water— Water which is added to a cooling water system to compensate for wastage
(e.g. via system leaks), evaporative loss and bleed.
Micro-organism— An organism of microscopic size including bacteria, fungi and viruses.
MOD Joint Services Publication (JSP) 375 Vol 2 Leaflet 19: Control of Legionella— JSP
375 Vol 2 Leaflet 19 is the MOD publication for the Control of Legionella on the MOD estate
based on ACOP L8.
Nominated Pe rson— The Nominated Person is appointed by the Base Civil Engineer and
directs day to day resources (manpower/funding) to implement the approved Installation Written
Legionella Risk Prevention/Mitigation Program.
Non-oxidizing Biocide— A non-oxidizing biocide is one that functions by mechanisms other
than oxidation, including interference with cell metabolism and struc ture.
Nutrient— A food source for micro-organisms.
Ope rational Staff— The operational staff includes those personnel who execute work required
by the risk control scheme. The staff may include supervisors, engineers, technicians, contract
managers, and contract personnel.
Oxidizing Biocide— Agents capable of oxidizing organic matter, e.g. cell material, enzymes or
proteins which are associated with microbiological populations resulting in death of the micro-
organisms. The most commonly used oxidizing biocides are based on chlorine or bromine
(halogens) which liberate hypochlorous or hypobromous acids on hydrolysis in water. The
exception is chlorine dioxide, a gas which does not hydrolyze but which functions in the same
way.
Pasteurization— Heat treatment to destroy micro-organisms usually at high temperature.
Planktonic— Free floating micro-organisms in an aquatic system.
Ppm— Parts per million: a measure of dissolved substances given as the number of parts there
are in a million parts of solvent. It is numerically equivalent to milligrams per liter (mg/l) with
respect to water.
Pond/Sump— Collection of cooling water at the base of a cooling tower.
Retention Time— Time a chemical is retained in the system.
Risk Assessment— Indentifying and assessing the risk from legionellosis from work activities
and water sources on premises and determining any necessary precautionary measures.
Scale Inhibitors— Chemicals used to control scale. They function by holding up the
precipitation process and/or distorting the crystal shape, thus preventing the build- up of a hard
adherent scale.
 12                                                            USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011


Sentinel Taps— For a hot water services - the first and last taps on a recirculating system. For
cold water systems (or non-recirculating hot water systems), the nearest and furthest taps from
the storage tank. The choice of sentinel taps may also include other taps which are considered to
represent a particular risk.
Sessile— Aquatic micro-organisms adhering to a surface normally as part of a biofilm.
Sludge— A general term for soft mud- like deposits found on heat transfer surfaces or other
important sections of a cooling system. Also found at the base of calorifiers and cold water
storage tanks.
Shunt Pump— A circulation pump fitted to hot water service/plant to overcome the temperature
stratification of the stored water.
Slime— A mucus-like exudate which covers a surface produced by some micro-organisms.
Stagnation— The condition where water ceases to flow and is therefore liable to
microbiological growth.
Strainers— A coarse filter usually positioned upstream of a sensitive component such as a pump
control valve or heat exchanger to protect it from debris.
Thermal Disinfection— Heat treatment to disinfect a system.
Thermostatic Mixing Valve— Mixing valve in which the temperature at the outlet is pre-
selected and controlled automatically by the valve.
Windage— Physical loss of water from a cooling tower caused by draught of air or wind—water
is lost around the base of the cooling tower as a result of cross winds as opposed to drift.
USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011                               13


                             Attachme nt 2
           SAMPLE INSTALLATION WRITTEN LEGIONELLA RISK
             PREVENTION/MITIGATION PROGRAM FORMAT
14   USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011
USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011   15
16   USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011
                                                                           Attachme nt 3
                                   MINIMIUM RECOMMENDED RECURRING WORK PROGRAM

This chart provides the minimum recommended recurring work program activities assuming chlorine wa ter treatment and Legionella
risk control practices utilizing temperature control are applied at your installation. USAF and Defence Estates personnel jo intly
prepared this table considering the referenced UK Health and Safety Executive L8, ASHRAE, and OSHA guidance. In each line item,
the minimum acceptable criteria of the three references are identified in bold.

TABLE 1. COOLING TOWERS



              UK, Health and Safety Executi ve L8                          OSHA Technical Manual                                     ASHRAE Gui deline 12-2000
Cooling       M onitor water quality, water use and   See Table 1 in the   V B 1. Visual inspection and periodic maintenance of      7. Cooling Towers Including Fluid
Towers and    biocide/chemical use to assess          L8 for s pecific     the system are the best ways to control growth of         Coolers (Closed-Circuit Cooling
Evaporative   and ensure effectiveness of water       monitoring           Legionella and related organisms. Good maintenance        Towers) and Evaporative Condensers.
Condensers    treatment regime, including key         task/frequencies     is necessary both to control Legionella growth and for    7.6. Recommended Treatment:
              chemical and microbiological                                 effective operation. The system should be properly        System maintained clean & biocidal
              parameters, and observations of                              monitored and maintained to prevent build up of scale     treatment program used. Recommends
              internal condition of pond, pack                             and sediment and bio-fouling, all of which support        services of qualified water treatment
              and water                                                    Legionella growth and reduce operating efficiency.        specialist.
              Central control function,               Monthly to three     V B 2. Biocide: Unfortunately, measurements of            7.6.3. Start-up procedures for drained
              conductivity sensor calibration,        monthly,             water quality such as total bacterial counts, total       systems: Clean all debris such as
              blow down function, uniformity of       according to risk    dissolved solids, and pH have not proven to be good       leaves and dirt from tower. Perform
              water distribution, condition of        See Table 1 in the   indicators of Legionella levels in cooling towers.        biocidal treatment program.
              sprays/troughs, eliminators, pack,      L8)                  Periodic use of biocides is needed to ensure control of   Start-up procedures for un-drained
              pond, immersion heater, fans and                             Legionella growth.                                        systems: Remove accessible solid
              sound attenuators                                            a. Little information exists on the demonstrated          debris from sump and remote storage
                                                                           effectiveness of many commercial biocides for             tank (s). Perform biocidal treatment
                                                                           preventing Legionella growth in actual operations.        program.
 18                                                                        USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011

              Clean and disinfect cooling            Six monthly        V B 4. Frequency of Cleaning. Cooling towers               7.6.1. System M aintenance: Visual
(Cont‘d)      towers/evaporative condensers,                            should be cleaned and disinfected at least twice a         inspections, remove buildup of dirt,
Cooling       make-up tanks and associated                              year. Normally this maintenance will be performed          organic matter & debris. M echanical
Towers and    systems, including all wetted                             before initial start-up at the beginning of the cooling    filtration can be used. Record
Evaporative   surfaces, de-scaling as necessary.                        season and after shut-down in the fall. Systems with       findings.
Condensers    Packs should be removed and                               heavy bio-fouling or high levels of Legionella may         7.6.2. Water Treatment: M inimize
              cleaned where practicable                                 require additional cleaning. Any system that has been      microbial growth, scale, corrosion, and
                                                                        out of service for an extended period should be            sediment/deposition of solids (organic
                                                                        cleaned and disinfected. New systems require               or inorganic) on heat transfer surfaces.
                                                                        cleaning and disinfecting because construction
                                                                        material residue can contribute to Legionella growth.
                                                                        Wisconsin Protocol: Acceptable cleaning procedures
                                                                        include those described in the Wisconsin Protocol.
                                                                        This procedure calls for an initial shock treatment
                                                                        with 50 ppm free residual (total) chlorine, addition of
                                                                        detergent to disperse bio-fouling, maintenance of 10
                                                                        ppm chlorine for 24 hours, and a repeat of the cycle
                                                                        until there is no visual evidence of biofilms. To
                                                                        prevent exposure during cleaning and maintenance,
                                                                        wear proper personal protective equipment: a Tyvek-
                                                                        type suit with a hood, protective gloves, and a
                                                                        properly fitted respirator with a high-efficiency
                                                                        particulate (HEPA) filter or a filter effective at
                                                                        removing one-micron particles.



TABLE 2. HOT AND COLD WATER SERVICES
                 UK Health and S afety Commission L8                         OS HA Technical Manual                                AS HRAE Gui deline 12-2000
Hot Water        Drain the calorifier and check for debris   Annually        C 4 A. Raising the water-heater temperature can       4.1.6. Recommended Treatment:
Services         in the base of the vessel. The calorifier                   control or eliminate Legionella growth.               Where practical in high risk
                 should be cleaned if considered                             Pasteurize the hot water system by raising the        situations, i.e. health care, etc. Cold
                 necessary.                                                  water-heater temperature to a minimum of 70°C         water should be stored and
                                                                             (158°F) for 24 hours and then flushing each           distributed at temperatures below
                                                                             outlet for 20 minutes. It is important to flush all   20°C, while hot water should be
                                                                             taps with the hot water because stagnant areas        stored above 60°C and circulated
                                                                             can "re-seed" the system. Exercise caution to         with a minimum return temperature
                                                                             avoid serious burns from the high water               of 51°C. Detailed plans of water
                                                                             temperatures used in Pasteurization. The hot-         system required. Shower heads
                                                                             water tank should be drained periodically .           should be self draining.
                 Check temperature of water leaving and      Monthly         Not M entioned                                        Same as block above
                 returning to calorifiers.
USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011                                                                                          19

             Check water temperature up to one          Monthly           C 4 B. Periodic chlorination of the system at the      4.1.6. Systems inspected annually
             minute to ensure it has reached 50°C in                      tank to produce 10 ppm free residual chlorine          to ensure thermostats are
             the sentinel taps.                                           and flushing of all taps until a distinct odor of      functioning properly.
                                                                          chlorine is evident is another means of control.
                                                                          In-line chlorinators can be installed in the hot
                                                                          water line; however, chlorine is quite corrosive
                                                                          and will shorten the service life of metal
                                                                          plumbing. Control of the pH is extremely
                                                                          important to ensure that there is adequate
                                                                          residual chlorine in the system.
             Visually inspect internal surfaces of      Annually          C 4 C. Alternative means to control Legionella         Not mentioned
             calorifiers for scale and sludge. Check                      growth include the use of metal ions such as
             representative taps for temperature as                       copper or silver (which have a biocidal effect) in
             above on a rotational basis.                                 solution. Ozonization injects ozone into the
                                                                          water. Ultraviolet (UV) radiation also kills
                                                                          micro-organisms. Commercial, in-line UV
                                                                          systems are effective and can be installed on
                                                                          incoming water lines or on recirculating systems,
                                                                          but stagnant zones may diminish the
                                                                          effectiveness of this treatment. Scale buildup on
                                                                          the UV lamp surface can rapidly reduce light
                                                                          intensity and requires frequent maintenance to
                                                                          ensure effective operation.
Cold Water   Check tank water temperature remote        Six monthly       C 2 C. Examine the water temperature and the           4.1.6. Recommended where
Services     from ball valve and mains temperature at   (Does this mean   potential for stagnation of cold-water storage         practical in High Risk situations:
             ball valve. Note maximum temperatures      6 times a         tanks used for reserve capacity or to maintain         health care etc. Treatment cold
             recorded by fixed max/min                  month or once     hydrostatic pressure. These should be protected        water stored below 20‘C.
             thermometers where fitted.                 every 6 months    from temperature extremes and covered to
                                                        – please          prevent contamination. Record the temperature
                                                        clarify?)         of the domestic cold-water lines at various
                                                                          locations within the facility. Note both the initial
                                                                          temperature and the final equilibrium
                                                                          temperature on the cold-water line, and record
                                                                          the time required to reach equilibrium, because
                                                                          this can be an indicator of the amount of
                                                                          stagnation in the system.
 20                                                                                 USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011

                      Check that temperature is below 20°C        Monthly            D 1. Domestic cold water systems are not a           Not mentioned
                      after running the water for up to two                          major problem for Legionella growth.
                      minutes in the sentinel taps.                                  M aintaining cold-water lines below 20°C will
                                                                                     limit the potential for amplification of the
                                                                                     bacteria. It is surprising, however, that elevated
                                                                                     levels of Legionella have been measured in ice
                                                                                     machines in hospitals. Cold-water lines near
                                                                                     heat sources in the units are believed to have
                                                                                     caused the amplification.
                      Visually inspect cold water storage tanks   Annually           D 3. Water tanks that allow water to remain          4.1.6. Those hot or cold water
                      and carry out remedial work where                              uncirculated for long periods can also promote       systems that incorporate an
                      necessary. Check representative taps for                       growth of bacteria. Such tanks should be             elevated holding tank should be
                      temperature as above on a rotational                           eliminated or designed to reduce storage time to     inspected and cleaned annually.
                      basis.                                                         a day or less. They should also be covered to        Lids should fit closely to exclude
                                                                                     prevent contamination and protected from             foreign materials.
                                                                                     temperature extremes.
Shower Heads          Dismantle, clean, and de-sca1e shower       Quarterly or as                                                         4.1.6. In high risk applications,
                      heads and hoses.                            necessary                                                               recommend monthly removal of
                                                                                                                                          shower heads & tap aerators to
                                                                                                                                          remove sediment & scale and clean
                                                                                                                                          them in a chlorine bleach solution.
                                                                                                                                          Shower heads should be self-
                                                                                                                                          draining.
Little-used Outlets   Flush through and purge to drain, or        Weekly*                                                                 Not mentioned
                      purge to drain immediately before use,
                      without release of aerosols.

* Recommended minimum run time is 5 minutes.




TABLE 3. OTHER RISK SYSTEMS

                        UK Health and S afety Commission L8                            OS HA Technical Manual                             AS HRAE Gui deline 12-2000
Ultrasonic              If fitted with UV lights, check to   Six monthly or            1. Disinfect water in piping or reservoirs         8.5.1. Regular inspection &
Humidifiers/Foggers     ensure effectiveness of lamp (ensure according to              feeding the humidifier with chlorine or other      maintenance is recommended. Clean
and Water M isting      lamp is within its working life) and manufacturer's            effective biocides.                                filters as required. Consider using
Systems                 clean filters.                       instructions              2. Sample the humidifier water to assure           photochemical ozone generators.
                                                             (Once every 6             "kill" of Legionella. Samples must have no
                                                             months?)                  detectable CFU of Legionella per milliliter of
USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011                                                                                                 21

                      Ensure automatic purge (to eliminate     As part of           water. If one or more are detected, repeat          8.5.1. Entire cooling loop should be
                      residual water) is functioning.          machinery shut       treatment and sampling.                             cleaned and flushed monthly.
                                                               down                 3. Ensure that an adequate maintenance
                      Clean and disinfect all wetted parts.    As indicated by      program is in effect to reduce the growth of        Not M entioned
                                                               risk assessment      Legionella. Water storage temperatures
Spray Humidifiers,    Clean and disinfect spray                Six monthly          should be above or below the 20° - 50°C (68°        8.5.1. Entire cooling loop should be
Air Washers and Wet   humidifiers/air washers, make-up                              - 122°F) range, and the system must be kept         cleaned and flushed monthly.
Scrubbers             tanks, and all wetted surfaces, de-                           clean.
                      sca1ing as necessary.                                         4. Before using the humidifier, flush the
                      Confirm the operation of non-            Weekly               piping and/or reservoir thoroughly to remove        8.5.1. Regular inspection &
                      chemical water treatment (if present).                        biocides.                                           maintenance is recommended. Clean
                                                                                    5. When steps 1 through 4 have been                 filters as required. Consider using
                                                                                    successfully completed, return the humidifier       photochemical ozone generators.
                                                                                    to operation and test the unit's water system to
                                                                                    detect recontamination with Legionella
                                                                                    according to the schedule below:
                                                                                          Weekly for the first month.
                                                                                          Every two weeks for the next two
                                                                                              months.
                                                                                          M onthly for the next three months.

                                                                                    The criterion for Legionella in humidifier
                                                                                    water systems during monitoring is fewer than
                                                                                    1 CFU per milliliter. If no samples exceed the
                                                                                    criterion, suspend monitoring and continue the
                                                                                    maintenance program indefinitely.
                                                                                    If any sample shows one or more CFU of
                                                                                    Legionella per milliliter, retreat and retest the
                                                                                    system according to the schedule above (step
                                                                                    5). M ake monitoring results available to
                                                                                    building occupants.
Water Softeners       Clean and disinfect resin and brine      As recommended       Not mentioned                                       Not mentioned
(Con‘t)               tank. Check with manufacturer            by manufacturer
Water Softeners       regarding choice of chemicals for
                      disinfection of resin bed.
Emergency Showers     Flush through and purge to drain         Six monthly or       Part of Level 1 walk-through.                       4.2.3. Should be flushed at least
and Eye Wash Sprays   using a method that does not create      more frequently if                                                       monthly.
                      an aerosol.                              recommended by
                                                               manufacturers?
Sprinkler and Hose    Sprinkler blow-down and hose reel        As directed          Part of Level 1 walk-through.                       4.2.3. Should be flushed at least
Reel Systems          tests must ensure minimum risk of                                                                                 monthly.
                      exposure to aerosols.
Lathe and M achine    Clean and disinfect entire system.       Six monthly?         Not mentioned                                       10.6. Selection of biocides should be
 22                                                                               USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011

Tool Coolant Systems                                                                                                                    based on fluids and microbes being
                                                                                                                                        treated.
Spa Baths                Check filters. Sand filters should be   Daily                Part of Level 1 walk-through.                     5.6.1.2. Clearly post warning signs on
                         backwashed daily.                                                                                              the increased health risk related to use
                                                                                                                                        by individuals who are
                                                                                                                                        immunocompromised or who have
                                                                                                                                        chronic lung disease.
                                                                                                                                        5.6.1.3. Regular back flushing
                                                                                                                                        frequency based on manufactures
                                                                                                                                        recommendation.
                         Check water treatment. Pools should     Three times daily    Not M entioned                                    5.6.1.3. Regular back flushing
                         be continuously treated with an                                                                                frequency based on manufactures
                         oxidizing biocide.                                                                                             recommendation.
                         Clean and disinfect entire system.      Weekly               Not M entioned                                    5.6.1.3. Filter cartridges should be
                                                                                                                                        cleaned/replaced once or twice
                                                                                                                                        weekly.
Horticultural M isting   Clean and disinfect distribution pipe   Annually             Not mentioned                                     Not mentioned
Systems                  work, spray heads, make-up tanks,
                         and all wetted surfaces, desca1ing as
                         necessary.
Dental Equipment         Drain down and clean.                   At the end of each   D 2. Dental water lines have recently been        Not mentioned
                                                                 working day          recognized as common sources of water
                                                                                      contaminated with high concentrations of
                                                                                      microorganisms including Legionella.
                                                                                      However, to date an increased risk of disease
                                                                                      among dental staff or patients has not been
                                                                                      demonstrated. Dental water line operating
                                                                                      conditions are especially appropriate for
                                                                                      Legionella proliferation because the water is
                                                                                      stagnant a majority of the time, the narrow
                                                                                      plastic tubing encourages biofilm formation,
                                                                                      and the water temperature is usually 20°C
                                                                                      (68°F) or higher--some systems maintain
(Con‘t)                                                                               water at 37°C (98.6°F). Filtration of water at
Dental Equipment                                                                      the point of use with replaceable, in-line,
                                                                                      FDA-cleared, 0.22-microns pore sizes filters is
                                                                                      recommended for minimizing risk to patients
                                                                                      and staff in a dental facility.
Car/Bus Washes           Check filtration and treatment          See                  Not mentioned                                     Not mentioned
                         system, clean and disinfect system.     Manufacturers'
                                                                 Instructions
Indoor Fountains and     Clean and disinfect ponds, spray        Interval depending   III. B. SOURCE IDENTIFICATION                     6.6.2. Regular cleaning is
Water Features           heads, make-up tanks, and all wetted    on condition.        COMM ON SOURCES OF                                recommended. Use of filters should
                         surfaces, de-scaling as necessary.                           CONTAM INATED WATER.                              be considered.
USAFEI32-7070 12 JULY 2011                                       23

                             Water sources that frequently provide optimal   6.6.3. When temperature range is
                             conditions for growth of the organisms          favorable for Legionella, use
                             include:                                        registered biocide.
                             Humidifiers and decorative fountains that
                             create a water spray and use water at
                             temperatures favorable to growth.
