BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       UNITED STATES AIR FORCE IN EUROPE
US AIR FORCES IN EUROPE (USAFE)                                 INSTRUCTION 36-731

                                                                             23 MARCH 2011
                                                                      RAMSTEIN AIR BASE
                                                                              Supplement
                                                                                  1 MAY 2012

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                                     THE USAFE NON-US
                                                                 RECOGNITION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: HQ USAFE/A1KC                                              Certified by: HQ USAFE/A1K
                                                                        (Ms. Kimberly Wright)
                                                                                    Pages: 21
                                      (RAMSTEINAB)
OPR: 86 FSS/FSPC-R                                                    Certified by: 86 FSS/CC
                                                                                 (LtCol Alcott)
                                                                                       Pages:4


This instruction implements AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations. It
establishes procedures for recognizing exceptional work performance or contributions by non-
United States (US) employees and citizens in accomplishing the United States Air Forces in
Europe (USAFE) mission. It does not apply in areas or countries where host nation or negotiated
labor agreements prohibit the use of such awards or where other regulatory guidance applies.
This publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard
(ANG) units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with the Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/

(RAMSTEINAB) This operating instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD)
36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations, United States Air Force Europe Instruction
(USAFEI) 36-731, The USAFE Non-US Recognition Program. It applies to all Air Force units
 2                                                       USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012


under the appointing authority of the installation commander (86th Airlift Wing) as outlined in
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-102, Basic Authority and Responsibility for Civilian Personnel
Management and Administration, to include Geographically Separated Units. Non Air Force
units will apply this policy if there is no other regulation in place from the parent organization. It
applies to Non-US employees in Germany. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual 33-
363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule located in Air Force Records Information Management System
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

The revision is required to implement the changes outlined in AFI 36-1004, The Air Force
Civilian Recognition Program, 3 December 2009. This instruction changes the title to read: The
USAFE Non-US Recognition Program. Paragraphs 4.1.2., 4.1.3., and 4.1.4. were updated to
require presentation at a suitable ceremony. For the Sustained Superior Performance Award
(Performance Award) within USAFE a uniform 1 to 10 percent rate may be proposed for
deserving employees (Para 5.1. 3.). Time-Off Awards may be granted in all countries (Para 6.1.)
and in Germany will be requested via USAFE Form 857, Leave Request, while the other
countries will use their respective forms (Para 6.8.). Three attachments are required for the
Exemplary Civilian Service Award (Para 7.3.4.). Reasonable degree of command-wide mission
impact for nomination of a Meritorious Civilian Service Award is mandatory; this award may
also be given at time of retirement (Para 7.4.1.); the emblem with the ruby indicates more than
one meritorious award (Para 7.4.2.), and the award must be presented within 6 months after act,
service, or achievement (Para 7.4.5.). The justification for the award will be typed on bond
paper and in bullet format; citations may not exceed nine lines and cannot contain more than 120
total characters per line (Attachment 2). Air Force Pamphlet 36-2861, Civilian Recognition
Guide, dated 1 June 2000 is obsolete. The award certificates are available through AF E-
Publishing (http://www.e-publishing.af.mil).

       1.      Introduction. ...........................................................................................................    3
       1.      (RAMSTEINAB) Policy: .......................................................................................                 3
       2.      Non-US Employees and Citizens May be Recognized: .........................................                                   3
       2.      (RAMSTEINAB) Procedures. ...............................................................................                     3
       3.      Responsibilities: .....................................................................................................      4
       3.      (RAMSTEINAB) Approval Authority. .................................................................                           4
Table 3.1.     (Added-RAMSTEINAB) Matrix ...........................................................................                        6
       4.      Service Recognition Awards: ................................................................................                 6
       5.      Monetary Incentive Awards: ..................................................................................                7
       6.      Time-Off Award (TOA): .......................................................................................                9
       7.      Honorary Awards: ..................................................................................................         10
USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012                                                                                     3


       8.     The Stock Number (Stock #) for individual awards is shown in AFI36-1004, The
              Air Force Civilian Recognition Program, 3 December 2009. ................................                     13
       9.     Letters and Certificates of Commendation: ...........................................................         13
       10.    Letters and Certificates of Appreciation: ...............................................................     14
       11.    Prescribed and Adopted Forms. .............................................................................   14

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                              16

Attachment 1—(RAMSTEINAB) GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING
             INFORMATION                                                                                                    18

Attachment 2—EXAMPLE FOR AWARD NOMINATION                                                                                   19

Attachment 3—AWARDS AND RECOGNITION                                                                                         21


1. Introduction. This instruction provides a means to recognize non-US employees and citizens
for accomplishment or exemplary service which directly impacts the mission of USAFE-
assigned units. This recognition may be in the form of honorary or monetary awards. Fully
document such recognition and present it in a setting commensurate with the award.
1. (RAMSTEINAB)Policy:
   1.1. (Added-RAMSTEINAB) Performance awards may be granted to employees to
   recognize exceptional performance in excess of regular duties and in conjunction with the
   annual performance rating. They are neither given automatically nor to every employee.
   The following guidelines will help maintain consistency among all Air Force organizations
   serviced by 86 Force Support Squadron (FSS), Civilian Personnel Office, while allowing
   units the flexibility they need to meet the objectives of effective performance management,
   i.e. to motivate employees with superior performance by monetary recognition, while helping
   others to aspire to achieve the same level of performance.
   1.2. (Added-RAMSTEINAB) An award bogey approved by the Civilian Resource
   Corporate Board will be provided to Groups or equivalent level organizations through
   resource management or personnel channels in early April. Each group commander is
   responsible to observe the financial targets imposed by the award bogey and must coordinate
   with the appropriate budget and/or personnel office if additional funds are required.
2. Non-US Employees and Citizens May be Recognized:
2. (RAMSTEINAB)Procedures. The rating supervisor writes up and signs the Performance
Award Worksheet and justification letter (detailed instructions and samples can be found on the
Civilian Personnel Flight Homepage). Employees will not be informed of the award structure or
amount until the Performance Award Worksheet is approved and returned from Civilian
Personnel Flight to the recommending official upon processing. There are two types of awards
that may be granted:
   2.1. For outstanding job performance, longevity of service, special acts, or noteworthy
   achievements.
 4                                       USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012


     2.1. (RAMSTEINAB) Cash Awards: A specific dollar amount to be entered on the
     Performance Award Worksheet. Cash awards may range from a minimum of 1% to a
     maximum of 10% of employee’s basic annual salary. Depending on the award percentage,
     different approval levels apply. To determine proper approval levels the dollar amount must
     be converted to a percentage of employee’s basic salary as of 31 March using the following
     formula:
           Recommended award amount multiplied by 100 = “X”
           “X” divided by employee’s basic salary = Award Percentage
     2.2. For special acts, service, or noteworthy achievements that assist or enhance the USAFE
     mission. Present all such awards and recognition in a timely manner.
     2.2. (RAMSTEINAB) Time-Off Award (TOA): This award may be granted in lieu of, or
     in conjunction with a cash award. It should be granted in 8 hour (1 day) increments and may
     not exceed 10 workdays per year. If only a TOA is granted, it must meet the minimum value
     of 1% of salary (i.e. 3 days). For specifics on approval authorities of TOAs and combination
     awards please refer to paragraph 3.6 and the attached matrix (atch 1).
3. Responsibilities:
3. (RAMSTEINAB)Approval Authority.
     3.1. HQ USAFE, Civilian Policy Branch (A1KC):
     3.1. (RAMSTEINAB) Squadron commanders have approval authority for:
        3.1.1. Establish basic programs and procedures.
        3.1.1. (RAMSTEINAB) Cash awards of 3% of basic salary or less
        3.1.2. Coordinate all requests submitted for the USAFE Vice Commander (USAFE/CV)
        or higher approval.
        3.1.2. (RAMSTEINAB) TOA up to 40 hours or 5 days.
        3.1.3. Maintain sufficient inventory of USAFE-level honorary award medals and
        certificates. Prepare USAFE-level award certificates and medals, and distribute approved
        award packages to initiating organizations.
        3.1.3. (RAMSTEINAB) Combination of cash award and TOA not to exceed 3% of
        basic salary.
        3.1.4. Provide program oversight and policy guidance.
     3.2. Installation Commanders:
     3.2. (RAMSTEINAB) Group commanders have approval authority for:
        3.2.1. Ensure management officials adhere to the policies and procedures contained in
        this instruction.
        3.2.1. (RAMSTEINAB) Cash awards above 3% of basic salary but less than 5%
        3.2.2. Use the awards program to recognize deserving individuals whose performance or
        accomplishments directly contribute to the USAFE mission.
USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012                                                       5


     3.2.2. (RAMSTEINAB) Combination of cash award and TOA above 3% but less than
     5%
  3.3. Unit Managers and Supervisors:
  3.3. (RAMSTEINAB) Wing commanders have approval authority for:
     3.3.1. Nominate deserving employees for appropriate awards and honors. Submit
     written justification in a timely manner to ensure appropriate levels of coordination and
     approval are obtained.
     3.3.1. (RAMSTEINAB) Cash awards of 5% of basic salary but less than 10%
     3.3.2. Monitor employee performance to ensure employees are nominated for
     appropriate awards.
     3.3.2. (RAMSTEINAB) Combination of cash award and TOA of 5% but less than 10%
  3.4. Civilian Personnel Officers or Civilian Personnel Flight/Civilian Personnel Section:
  3.4. (RAMSTEINAB) Cash awards of 10% must be approved by the Secretary of the Air
  Force; and those for more than $10,000 must be approved by the Office of Personnel
  Management. Group commanders desiring this level of an award will provide a request
  package to 86 FSS, Training & Requirements Section, for processing and coordination IAW
  guidance provided here.
     3.4.1. Notify managers and supervisors when employees are eligible for length of service
     awards. Provide guidance and assistance in preparation of performance or other awards.
     Provide training and awards information to supervisors and managers.
     3.4.2. Where required, certify and coordinate awards packages initiated by management.
     Prepare awards citations and certificates for recognition approved at the installation-
     commander level.
     3.4.3. Refer packages identified later in this instruction which require higher
     Headquarters coordination and action to the Civilian Policy Branch, HQ USAFE/A1KC,
     Unit 3050 Box 25, APO AE 09094-5025.
  3.5. (Added-RAMSTEINAB) It is recommended that each Wing or equivalent level
  organization establish a performance award panel to review all recommendations of 5% or
  more. After review, the panel should recommend approval/disapproval to the approving
  official.  Disapproval should require the panel to provide a justification and a
  recommendation for a more appropriate award amount.
  3.6. (Added-RAMSTEINAB) All awards whether TOA, cash or combination, must be
  equivalent to at least 1% of the basic annual salary of the employee, effective on 31 March of
  the calendar year in which award is granted. Approval levels for combination awards (TOA
  & Cash) need to be determined by adding the percentage of the Cash Award and the
  percentage of salary represented by the TOA. TOAs are NOT charged against the bogey.
  The matrix provides a graphic display of combinations and required approval levels. The
  following values apply:
 6                                         USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012


Table 3.1. (Added-RAMSTEINAB) Matrix
Length of TOA            Represent                    % of Salary
1 Day                    Represent                    0.40%
2 Days                   Represent                    0.80%
3 Days                   Represent                    1.20%
4 Days                   Represent                    1.60%
5 Days                   Represent                    2.00%
and so on
Example: Combine a 3% Cash Award with a 1 day TOA = 3.4% - requires Group/CC approval
4. Service Recognition Awards:
     4.1. Length-of-Service Recognition. Recognize non-US employees for length of service
     upon completion of at least 10 years of faithful service with the United States Forces. Grant
     additional awards upon satisfactory completion of subsequent periods of 5 years of service
     up to 50 years of service. Creditable service for length of service awards will include all
     service with the US forces as reflected by the employee’s service computation date (SCD).
        4.1.1. Ten- and 15-Year Service Recognition. The organizational unit will prepare the
        AF Form3589-1, Certificate of Service (10 Years of Service), and USAFE Form 221,
        Certificate of Achievement, with employee’s name, number of years of service, and date
        of eligibility. The Local Commander (LC) or Installation Commander (IC) (or
        designated representative) will sign the award certificate and present it along with the
        appropriate service recognition emblem to the employee.
        4.1.2. For awards recognizing 20 through 35 years of service, the Civilian Personnel
        Flight (CPF)/Civilian Personnel Section (CPS) will prepare the AF Form 3590-1, 20
        Years of Service Certificate, for 20 years of service and the AF Form 3591-1, 30 Years of
        Service Certificate, for 30 years of service. To honor 25 and 35 years of faithful service,
        the USAFE Form 221 will be prepared. The LC/IC (or designated representative) will
        sign the certificate and present it along with the appropriate service-recognition emblem
        to the employee. The USAFE Form 221 will be presented to honor employees with 25
        and 35 years of faithful service. Commanders will present the certificate to the employee
        at a suitable ceremony.
        4.1.3. Forty- and 45-Year Service Recognition. At least 90 days prior to eligibility for
        40 and45 years-of-service recognition, the CPF/CPS will provide the employee’s name,
        number of years of service, and date of eligibility to HQ USAFE/A1KC. To honor
        employees with 40 years of service HQ USAFE/A1KC will prepare the AF Form 3592-1,
        Certificate of Service (40 years of service), and for 45 years of service the AF Form
        3033, Certificate of Appreciation (45 years of service). Upon signature by USAFE/CV
        these certificates are forwarded to the CPF/CPS. Commanders will present the certificate
        to the employee at a suitable ceremony.
        4.1.4. Fifty-Year Service Recognition. For employees eligible for 50-year service
        recognition, the CPF/CPS will provide a memorandum to HQ USAFE/A1KC with the
        employee’s name, eligibility date, grade, and title at least 90 days prior to the anniversary
USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012                                                           7


      date to allow sufficient time for completion. HQ USAFE/A1KC will electronically
      forward the package to the Air Staff, Attn: AF/A1SO (Awards and Decorations Board,
      ATTN: USAF SAF/MRBP, 1040 Air Force Pentagon, Washington DC 20330-1040, for
      preparation of the AF Form 3593-1, Certificate of Service (50 years of Service), and for
      signature by the Secretary of the Air Force. The completed certificate and 50-year
      service pin will be returned to the CPF/CPS. Commanders will present the certificate to
      the employee at a suitable ceremony.
      4.1.5. Beginning with the completion of 20-year service and thereafter in five-year
      increments, employees in Germany are entitled to 3 workdays of administrative leave at
      each occasion, as career service recognition. This leave may be taken within 12 calendar
      months following the date of the employment anniversary. This 12-month period will
      include the month in which the employee’s length of service occurs.
      4.1.6. Personnel employed in the UK Direct Hire Program are eligible for cash awards
      on completion of 25, 35, and 45 years of service in accordance with the USAFEI 36-707,
      Administration of Local National Direct Hire Civilian Employees in the United Kingdom,
      Chapter 16.
   4.2. Retirees. Also recognize retiring non-US employees and spouses under the provisions
   or practices of the host country.
      4.2.1. Retiring employees may qualify for service recognition if they have completed at
      least 10 years of loyal service with the US forces or at least 5 years of loyal service if the
      services rendered include significant acts or contributions.
      4.2.2. The servicing CPF/CPS will determine the employee’s eligibility for the award
      and prepare the AF Form 3033 with the employee’s name, number of years of service,
      and date of retirement. The certificate should include an appropriate statement, such as
      ―Presented on the occasion of retirement after __ years of loyal service to the US Forces.‖
      4.2.3. The LC/IC or designated representative will sign the certificates and present them
      to the retiring employee and spouse at an appropriate ceremony.
5. Monetary Incentive Awards:
   5.1. Sustained Superior Performance Award (SSPA):
      5.1.1. A SSPA may be granted to a deserving employee whose duty performance clearly
      exceeds applicable performance standards. This award applies to non-US citizen
      employees unless prohibited by host nation laws or labor agreements.
      5.1.2. The employee’s immediate supervisor is responsible for preparing and submitting
      the nomination memorandum. The supervisor will also complete and attach a written
      justification outlining how the employee’s performance has exceeded the standards. The
      AF Form 1001, Award Recommendation Transmittal, can be used for this purpose.
      5.1.3. Depending on the extent and type of an employee’s performance, an award of 1 to
      10 percent of the employee’s annual gross salary/wage may be proposed (see Special
      Provisions for the UK, Italy, and Norway).
      5.1.4. The employee must have been in the same grade, in the same position, and in the
      same organization unless the employee was downgraded during the same period for
8                                        USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012


       reasons other than personal cause or upgraded in the same position as a result of
       completion of training or based on provisions of the respective country agreement.
       Promotions, downgrades, changes to another tariff or pay schedule, and separations
       occurring after completion of the period covered will not affect award eligibility.
       5.1.5. The evaluation period must cover a minimum time frame of 12 months.
       Nominations should be submitted each year when the performance evaluations are due,
       on or about 15 May but no later than 15 July.
       5.1.6. The AF Form 2858, Performance Award, will be completed.
       5.1.7. The amount of funds for the awards varies by each installation.          LC/IC are
       responsible for budgeting funds to support the Non-US awards program.
       5.1.8. Italy: The total award amount may not exceed the equivalent of 10 percent of the
       combined: (1) annual base pay, (2) cost-of-living allowance (Contingenza), and (3) third
       element for the grade level.
       5.1.9. United Kingdom:
          5.1.9.1. Direct Hire: Commanders may award an amount up to 10 percent of the
          midpoint of the hourly basic rate range for the employee’s grade and position
          category multiplied by the contracted hours on an annual basis rounded to the nearest
          pound. (Reference: USAFEI 36-707, Chapter 16).
          5.1.9.2. Indirect Hires: Not applicable.
       5.1.10. Norway. The award stipulations are contained in AFMAN 34-310, Non-
       appropriatedFund Personnel Program Management and Administration Procedures and
       in AFI 36-1001,Managing the Civilian Performance Program for Appropriated Funds
       Employees (Direct Hires). The award is an amount up to 10 percent of the hourly basic
       rate range for the employee’s grade and position category multiplied by the contracted
       hours on an annual basis rounded to the nearest Norwegian Kroner (NOK). Reference:
       USAFEI 36-752, Administration of Local National (LN) Direct Hire Civilian Employees
       in Norway, Chapter 16.
       5.1.11. Coordinate and approve the award through the local chain of command and
       forward to the servicing CPF/CPS for action.
       5.1.12. The AF Form 2858, June 1987, Performance Award, will be completed and
       presented.
    5.2. Special Act or Service Award (SASA):
       5.2.1. The SASA is a monetary form of recognition granted for a contribution or
       accomplishment in the public interest that is a non-recurring contribution either in or
       outside of job responsibilities, a scientific achievement, or in recognition of a courageous
       handling of an emergency situation. There is no limit to the number of these awards an
       employee may receive.
       5.2.2. The award consists of a certificate (AF Form 2860, Special Act or Service Award)
       and monetary award calculated as a percentage of the expected benefit or savings.
       5.2.3. The basis for the award may be as follows:
USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012                                                           9


          5.2.3.1. A superior achievement or scientific achievement that saves the Command
          significant time, manpower, or money.
          5.2.3.2. A project or assignment which involved overcoming unusual difficulties.
          5.2.3.3. Performance of assigned duties with special effort or innovation that resulted
          in significant economies or other highly desirable benefits.
          5.2.3.4. Creative efforts that made an important contribution to science or research.
          5.2.3.5. Exemplary or courageous handling of an emergency situation related to
          official employment.
      5.2.4. The supervisor should submit the nominations and include the nomination
      memorandum with attached justification fully describing the achievement and the
      proposed citation. Submit nomination packages within 60 days after completion of the
      special act, service, or achievement.
      5.2.5. Award Approval. A SASA from $501 to $10,000 will be approved by IC and at
      Field Operating Agency/Direct Reporting Unit by CC or CV; over $10,001 to $25,000,
      the Office of Personnel Management approves; and over $25,000 presidential approval is
      required. See Note 2 of Table A3.1.
      5.2.6. The commander will present the award at an appropriate ceremony.
   5.3. Notable Achievement Award (NAA):
      5.3.1. The NAA recognizes an employee or group of employees for a special act or
      service which results in a noteworthy contribution to the Air Force meriting prompt
      recognition. There is no limit to the number of these awards that an employee may
      receive.
      5.3.2. The award consists of a certificate (AF Form 3032, Certificate of Achievement)
      and a monetary award.
      5.3.3. The basis for the award is any personal effort that results in eliminating wasteful
      or inefficient practices, or the enhancement of mission effectiveness as a one-time
      occurrence.
      5.3.4. The supervisor should submit nominations within 30 days after the act, service, or
      achievement to the servicing CPF and include a nomination memorandum (AF IMT
      1768, Staff Summary Sheet or E-SSS) with attached justification describing the
      contribution being recognized.
      5.3.5. The second-level supervisor is the final approval authority for this award.
      5.3.6. Award amounts range from $25 to $500. See Note 2 of Table A3.1.
      5.3.7. Present the award to the employee at a suitable ceremony.
6. Time-Off Award (TOA):
   6.1. The TOA may be granted as performance recognition to non-US employees within
   USAFE in the form of excused absence. In the UK this applies to direct hire personnel only;
   indirect hire personnel are not eligible to receive a TOA.
 10                                      USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012


   6.2. During a calendar year an employee may be granted 1 day up to a maximum of 10 days
   excused absence without charge to leave as an award for achievements and performance
   contributing significantly to the Air Force mission. Up to 5 days may be awarded at one
   time, with a maximum of 10 days per leave year. Immediate supervisors may approve a
   TOA of 1 day without review and approval of a higher official. An award in excess of 1 day
   must be approved by the employee’s second-level supervisor.
   6.3. The employee’s contributions must directly support the Air Force mission or result in
   benefits to the US Government. The extent and the value of the contributions must be
   considered when determining the amount of time off that is approved.
   6.4. The commander or agency chief may delegate the approval authority to supervisors
   within the organization.
   6.5. The TOA may be used alone or in combination with monetary and honorary awards to
   recognize the employee contributions.
   6.6. The TOA must be taken within 1 year of the effective date of the award; otherwise, it
   will be forfeited. Approval for the time off will be granted if this is compatible with the
   operational requirements in the organization. A TOA of several days will be granted in 1-
   day increments if requested by the employee.
   6.7. Financial compensation in lieu of the time off is not authorized.
   6.8. The request for time off (administrative leave) in Germany will be documented on the
   USAFE Form 857, Urlaubsantrag (Leave Request), signed and administered by the
   immediate supervisor. All other time-off requests will be documented on a respective form.
7. Honorary Awards:
   7.1. USAFE Medal of Distinction (MOD):
      7.1.1. The MOD is the highest medal awarded to non-US employees or citizens in
      recognition of service, achievements, or support of the USAFE mission. This award may
      be granted to host nation government representatives, military officials, or private
      citizens. Nominate employees only if they have received a USAFE or higher-level
      award.
      7.1.2. . The award consists of a gold-colored medal with a red, white, and blue striped
      ribbon; a dark blue ribbon rosette with red and white in the center; and a certificate
      (controlled, stocked, and issued by HQ USAFE/A1KC).
      7.1.3. Basis for consideration of award will normally be for service over a minimum
      period of 1 year. Present the award within 6 months following the end of the period
      being recognized. The period should consist of exemplary service or support which has
      current and significant impact on the accomplishment of the USAFE mission in one or
      more of the following ways:
          7.1.3.1. Development or implementation of governmental, military, or community
          initiatives which directly impact and enhance the USAFE mission.
          7.1.3.2. A specific contribution for which the nominee is primarily responsible,
          which results in extraordinary progress toward accomplishment of the USAFE
          mission.
USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012                                                    11


        7.1.3.3. Providing services or arranging for the use of resources that directly impact
        the USAFE mission.
     7.1.4. Normally, the LC/IC equivalent or above should make nominations in writing and
     submit them to the servicing CPF/CPS. Include in the nomination package, the
     nomination memorandum with attached justification of no more than one typewritten
     page and a draft congratulatory letter for the signature of the USAFE/CC. The nominee’s
     current home address and business address are required to coordinate US embassy
     clearance for individuals who are not employees of the US Air Force. The nomination
     package should also specify the nominator’s name to be printed on the certificate and
     provide the name and telephone number of the point of contact.
     7.1.5. Forward award nominations to HQ USAFE/A1KC at least 90 days prior to the
     planned date of presentation. HQ USAFE/A1KC will review the nomination and process
     the clearance message through the appropriate US embassy for nominees who are not
     employees of the US Air Force. Upon receipt of approval from the US embassy, HQ
     USAFE/A1KC will prepare the certificate and USAFE Medal of Distinction and forward
     the nomination package through the Director of Manpower, Personnel, and Services (HQ
     USAFE/A1) and the Host Nation Advisor (HQ USAFE/CCH) to USAFE/CV for
     concurrence and USAFE/CC for signature. Commanders will ensure the award is
     presented during an appropriate ceremony.
  7.2. USAFE Medal of Merit (MOM):
     7.2.1. Award the USAFE Medal of Merit (MOM) as recognition for noteworthy service,
     achievements, or support to the accomplishment of the USAFE mission. This award may
     be granted to host nation government representatives, military officials, or private
     citizens. Employees may only be nominated if they have received a USAFE or higher
     level award.
     7.2.2. The award consists of a silver-colored medal with a dark blue command ribbon
     with white stars, and certificate (controlled, stocked, and issued by HQ USAFE/A1KC).
     7.2.3. Basis for consideration of the award will normally be for service over a minimum
     period of 1 year. Present the award within 6 months following the end of the period
     being recognized. The period should consist of noteworthy service or support that does
     not warrant a Medal of Distinction but exhibits a commitment to the accomplishment of
     the USAFE mission in one or more of the following ways:
        7.2.3.1. Promotion of governmental, military, or community initiatives that enhance
        the accomplishment of the USAFE mission.
        7.2.3.2. Participation in, or endorsement of, volunteer activities that enhance the
        accomplishment of the USAFE mission.
        7.2.3.3. Accomplishments which reflect efforts to promote a greater awareness and
        understanding of the USAFE mission.
     7.2.4. Normally, a group commander or above will submit nominations in writing to the
     servicing CPF/CPS. Include in the nomination package, the nomination memorandum
     with attached justification of no more than one typewritten page and a draft
     congratulatory letter for the signature of the installation or appropriate higher level
12                                     USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012


     commander. Due to the nature of this action, approval is limited to a colonel or general
     officer equivalent. The nominee’s current home address and business address are
     required to coordinate US embassy clearance for individuals who are not employees. The
     nomination package should also specify the name to be printed on the certificate and
     provide the name and telephone number of the point of contact.
     7.2.5. Forward award nominations to CPF/CPS at least 30 days prior to the planned date
     of presentation. The CPF/CPS will review the nomination and coordinate the
     recommendation with the US embassy, the wing host nation advisor, and other
     organizations as deemed appropriate.
     7.2.6. The CPF/CPS will prepare a consolidated list of award recipients and forward it to
     HQ USAFE/A1KC every 6 months.
  7.3. Exemplary Civilian Service Award (ECSA).
     7.3.1. The purpose of this award is to recognize an individual or group for clearly
     outstanding service in support of the command mission or goal.
     7.3.2. The award consists of a bronze-colored medal bearing the Air Force coat of arms
     within a wreath of laurel leaves. Ribbon is edged with green and has three red stripes in
     the middle bordered by light blue and white; and an AF Form 3517, Exemplary Civilian
     Service Award.
     7.3.3. The basis for the award includes performing assigned duties for at least one year in
     an outstanding manner or performing a single service that significantly contributes to the
     accomplishment of the command mission. Service must clearly demonstrate specific
     examples of how the employee exceeded service expected of an individual with similar
     responsibilities.
     7.3.4. An AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet, and three attachments (nomination
     memorandum, draft citation, and narrative justification which describes the specific
     accomplishments and benefits) will be submitted to the servicing CPF/CPS. The draft
     citation should be written in third person including job designation and should not exceed
     90 words. The narrative justification will not exceed two pages. Approval authority for
     this award is delegated to the wing commander/vice commander or comparable
     organization/major command (MAJCOM) Director level.
     7.3.5. Commanders/MAJCOM Directors will ensure the award is presented during an
     appropriate ceremony.
  7.4. Meritorious Civilian Service Award (MCSA):
     7.4.1. Grant the MCSA for outstanding service to the Air Force with a reasonable degree
     of command-wide mission impact in the performance of duty which merits recognition.
     There is no limit to the number of these awards that may be presented to an employee.
     Submit through proper channels to the MAJCOM within 6 months of act, service, or
     achievement. This award may also be given at time of retirement.
     7.4.2. The award consists of a sterling silver medal and light-blue ribbon with alternating
     gold and dark-blue stripes in the center; a lapel emblem; a light-blue silk rosette with
     gold and dark-blue in the center; and an AF Form 1166, Award for Meritorious Civilian
     Service. The emblem with a ruby indicates receipt of more than one meritorious award.
USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012                                                        13


      7.4.3. The basis for award includes:
          7.4.3.1. Performing assigned duties at least 1 year in an exemplary manner, with a
          reasonable degree of command-wide mission impact in the performance of duty,
          setting a record of individual achievement, and serving as an incentive to others to
          improve the quality and quantity of their work performance.
          7.4.3.2. Exercising unusual initiative in devising new and improved work methods
          and procedures that result in substantial savings in manpower, time, space, materials,
          or other resources.
          7.4.3.3. Improving safety or health of employees.
          7.4.3.4. Improving the morale of workers in an organizational unit with consequent
          improvement in work performance and esprit de corps.
      7.4.4. The supervisor will submit the nomination with the AF Form 1768, Staff Summary
      Sheet, and four attachments consisting of nomination memorandum, draft citation,
      narrative justification, and memorandum for HQ USAFE/A1KC to the servicing CPF
      describing the specific accomplishments and benefits in sufficient detail to be easily
      understood. The draft citation should be written in third person, include job designation,
      and may not exceed nine lines with maximum of 120 total characters per line. The
      narrative justification may not exceed one page. The nomination package will be
      forwarded to HQ USAFE/A1 and USAFE/DS for coordination. See Table 5.1., AFI36-
      1004, 3 December 2009.
8. The Stock Number (Stock #) for individual awards is shown in AFI36-1004, The Air
Force Civilian Recognition Program, 3 December 2009.
9. Letters and Certificates of Commendation:
   9.1. Send letters and certificates of commendation to an employee for unusual achievements
   or contributions that clearly exceed duty performance. There is no limit to the number of
   letters and certificates of commendation that an employee may receive.
   9.2. The award consists of a personalized letter and, as an option, the AF Form 3034,
   Certificate of Commendation.
   9.3. Submit letters and certificates of commendation at any time actions warrant recognition.
   The IC/Wing Commander or MAJCOM Director of a major organizational unit or
   component must sign the letter as the approving authority. Write the letter on official
   letterhead stationery with the subject, Letter of Commendation. Address it to the employee
   through supervisory channels. Use terminology such as I commend, or achievement was
   commendable, in the letter with reference to the specific achievement or act. Such
   terminology as, I appreciate‖ or thanks for a good job‖ does not meet the criteria of this type
   of recognition.
   9.4. The first-line supervisor will present the letter and certificate to the employee. Provide
   a copy to the servicing CPF/CPS for inclusion in the employee’s official personnel file.
 14                                     USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012


10. Letters and Certificates of Appreciation:
   10.1. Give letters and certificates of appreciation to an employee for work performance, an
   act, or service that is better than expected. There is no limit to the number of letters and
   certificates of appreciation that an employee may receive.
   10.2. The award consists of a personalized letter and as an option, an AF Form 3033,
   Certificate of Appreciation.
   10.3. Submit letters and certificates of appreciation anytime for actions that warrant
   recognition. The first-line supervisor, higher level supervisor, or any person having
   knowledge of the service rendered may prepare and sign the letter and certificate.
   10.4. Present letter and certificate to the employee through supervisory channels.

11. Prescribed and Adopted Forms.

11.1. Prescribed Forms.

USAFE Form 221, Certificate of Achievement
USAFE Form 857, Urlaubsantrag (Leave Request)

11.2. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 1001, Award Recommendation Transmittal
AF Form 1166, Award for Meritorious Civilian Service
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet
AF Form 2858, Performance Award
AF Form 2860, Special Act of Service Award
AF Form 3032, Certificate of Achievement
AF Form 3033, Certificate of Appreciation
USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012                                                   15



AF Form 3034, Certificate of Commendation
AF Form 3517, Exemplary Civilian Service Award
AF Form 3589-1, Certificate of Service (10 years of Service)
AF Form 3590-1, 20 Years Length of Service Certificate
AF Form 3591-1, Certificate of Service (30 years of Service)
AF Form 3592-1, Certificate of Service (40 years of Service)
AF Form 3593-1, Certificate of Service (50 years of Service)




                                            CARLA H. GAMMON, Colonel, USAF
                                            Director, Manpower, Personnel, and Services

                                            (RAMSTEINAB)

                                            MARK C. DILLON, Brigadier General, USAF
                                            Commander
 16                                     USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations, 15 December 2008
AFMAN 34-310, Non-Appropriated Fund Personnel Program Management and Administration
Procedures, 1 December 1995
AFI 36-1001, Managing the Civilian Performance Program, 1 July 1999
AFI 36-1004, The Air Force Civilian Recognition Program, 3 December 2009
AFMAN 37-123, Management of Records, 31 August 1994
USAFEI 36-704, Administration of Local National Indirect Hire Civilian Employees in the
United Kingdom (UK), 13 August 2004
USAFEI 36-710, Administration of Resident Non-U.S. Citizen Personnel - Turkey, 26 July 2005
USAFEI 36-716, Probationary Period Appraisal and Performance Evaluation Non United
States Citizen Employees, 31 October 2003
USAFEPAM 36-720 (I), Tariff Agreements That Apply to Persons Employed by the U.S. Forces
in Germany (English translation), 1 April 1996
USAFEI 36-723, Implementation of Collective Tariff Agreement (CTA II) and Overtariff
Conditions for Labor in the Federal Republic of Germany, 1 July 1999
USAFEI 36-752, Administration of Local National (LN) Direct Hire Civilian Employees in
Norway, 22 March 2005
LFI 36-4, Lajes Field Instruction, Volume 1, 1 Oct 98

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CPF—Civilian Personnel Flight
CPS—Civilian Personnel Section
CTA—Collective Tariff Agreement
DRU—Direct Reporting Unit
ECSA—Exemplary Civilian Service Award
FOA—Field Operating Agency
IAC—Incentive Award Committee
MAJCOM—Major Command
MCSA—Meritorious Civilian Service Award
MOD—Medal of Distinction
MOM—Medal of Merit
NAA—Notable Achievement Award
USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012                       17


SASA—Special Act or Service Award
SCD—Service Computation Date
SSPA—Sustained Superior Performance Award
TOA—Time-Off Award
US—United States
USAFE—United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFE/CC—Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
USAFE/CV—Vice Commander, United States Air Forces in Europe
 18                                    USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012


                                Attachment 1 (RAMSTEINAB)
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 36-7, Employee and Labor-Management Relations,
USAFEI 36-731, Non-US Citizen Honorary and Incentive Awards, 10 May 2007
Acronyms and Abbreviations
AFI --- Air Force Instruction
AFPD --- Air Force Policy Direction
AFRIMS --- Air Force Records Information Management System
FSS --- Force Support Squadron
TOA --- Time off Award
USAFEI --- United States Air Force Europe Instruction
Terms
Publication—An officially produced, published and distributed document issued for
compliance, implementation, and or information; includes Policy and Guidance Memorandums.
USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012                                                       19


                                       Attachment 2
                        EXAMPLE FOR AWARD NOMINATION

A2.1. The following is a format for an award nomination. (i.e., Outstanding Civilian Career
Service Award, Award for Meritorious Civilian Service, Exemplary Civilian Service Award,
etc.). Please submit Tabs 2 & 3 (below) as electronic Word documents in addition to the
hardcopy package.
   A2.1.1. Staff Summary Sheet (SSS), (AF Form 1768) with 4 Attachments (if applicable).

Figure A2.1. Sample for the SSS
Subject: XXX Award – Nominee’s Name
1. The recommendation at Tab 1 for XY for the XXX Award is submitted for __ FSS/CC
(MSS/CC) review/approval. This award recognizes outstanding performance worthy of
recognition for significant accomplishments with command-wide impact. Ms/Mr XY has no
immediate plans for retirement.
2. Narrative Justification is at Tab 2.
3. Other data:
a. Grade
b. Duty Title
c. Period Covered
4. Proposed Citation is at Tab 3.
5. Memorandum for HQ USAFE/A1KC is at Tab 4.
6. RECOMMENDATION: FSS/CC (MSS/CC) sign in Block 10 for wing approval and
processing by FSS/FSMC (MSS/DPC) to HQ USAFE/CV/CC for final award approval and
signature.
Signature Block
4 Tabs
1. Recommendation Memorandum
2. Narrative Justification
3. Proposed Citation
4. Memorandum for HQ USAFE/A1KC

Tab 1:

MEMORANDUM FOR XX FSS/FSMC (MSS/DPC)
FROM: ___________
SUBJECT: XXX Award- (Name of Nominee)
1. Attached is a nomination of the (name of award) to (name of nominee). This individual is
being nominated for this award in recognition of _________________________________.
Period of service for this award is ________________.
2. Request to submit the award package to your Incentive Award Committee (IAC) for review
and approval.
3. Our POC is Ms/Mr XY at _________.
(NAME OF REQUESTER)
Title
 20                                      USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012



Tab 2:

NARRATIVE JUSTIFICATION
- Word Document, bullet format. Not to exceed one page.

Tab 3:

DRAFT CITATION
- Word Document, not to exceed 9 lines and 120 total characters per line.

Tab 4:

Memorandum for HQ USAFE/A1KC
FROM: ……….
SUBJECT: XXX Award
I certify that the official records of Ms/Mr XY, during the inclusive dates of the XXX Award, do
not contain any disciplinary or adverse action information. Also, there is no action pending that
would reflect unfavorably on the exemplary performance deserving recognition.

Signature
USAFEI36-731_RAMSTEINABSUP_I 1 MAY 2012                                     21


                                     Attachment 3
                           AWARDS AND RECOGNITION

A3.1. Table A3.1. Shows awards and recognition types for non-US employees

Table A3.1. Awards Table
