BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       VANCE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
71ST FLYING TRAINING WING                                                  33-222

                                                                              21 MARCH 2013

                                                           Communications and Information

                                                   COMMUNICATIONS REQUIREMENTS
                                                                    PROCESSING

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 71 CS/SCX                                          Certified by: 71 CS/CC (Maj Morrow)
                                                                                    Pages: 6
Supersedes:   VANCEAFBI33-222,
              2 Dec 2011


This instruction describes and implements procedures pertaining to requesting Information
Technology (IT) services and equipment at Vance AFB. This publication does not apply to the
Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC), Air National Guard (ANG), or Civil Air Patrol Units.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from
the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on
filling out the form).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Added paragraph outlining the AETC/A6 IT requirements process. Changed STEM-B to CSI-B
throughout. Updated email address for submitting C&I requirements. Replaced references to
AFI 33-104 with TO 00-33D-3003.
1. The Communications and Information (C&I) Systems Requirements Process. The C&I
systems requirements process enables requesting organizations (users) to obtain new C&I
hardware and software capabilities, with the assistance of the Communications and Information
 2                                                       VANCEAFBI33-222 21 MARCH 2013


Systems Officer (CSO). You may also use this process to document C&I systems sustainment
requirements. The process starts when the user identifies a mission need and requests CSO
assistance with defining the requirement and developing a technical solution for that need. The
user may also request CSO assistance with implementing the technical solution. VANCEAFB
115, Vance C&I Requirements Document, is used to initiate the C&I requirements process.
     1.1. Instructions for completing/submitting a VANCEAFB115.
        1.1.1. Date: Enter the date the form is prepared or submitted.
        1.1.2. CSO Control Number: Completed by the contractor/Information Technology (IT)
        planner.
        1.1.3. Requirement Title: Include a title that briefly describes the requirement.
        1.1.4. Date Needed: Enter the date the service is required.
        1.1.5. Mission or System Supported: Identify the major C&I system or mission that
        relates to the requirement.
        1.1.6. Requesting Agency Point of Contact: Identify who can knowledgeably discuss the
        requirement.
        1.1.7. Requirement: State the need in functional terms. Emphasis should be placed on
        the required capabilities rather than a "shopping list" of specific equipment. However, if
        the user is aware of equipment that will fulfill the requirement, please provide a
        recommendation with rationale. Identify any security handling requirements, and
        indicate when a secure capability is required. When necessary, include special
        requirements, such as Americans with Disabilities Act compliance requirements, special
        operating conditions, manpower, training, and maintenance.
        1.1.8. Justification: Explain why the equipment or capability is needed. Be sure to
        include a mission impact statement if your requirement is not met. Reference an AFI, TO
        or other guidance, if possible. The justification will also be used to prioritize resource
        allocations and project implementation.
        1.1.9. Email the completed VANCEAFB115 to                  the   Vance    Communications
        Requirements mailbox at vance.commreq@us.af.mil.
        1.1.10. The contractor/IT planner will validate the requirement, assign a control number,
        and forward to the Vance IA office for review/coordination and digital signature. The IA
        office will also make a determination if the request requires Configuration Control Board
        (CCB) action. See para 1.1.22. If so, the IA office will annotate VANCEAFB115
        accordingly and notify the contractor/IT planner, who will notify the requester.
        1.1.11. The Wing IA office will return the requirement to the contractor/IT planner, who
        will send to the appropriate work center for Technical Solution and Costing (TS&C),
        depending on the type of requirement. Allow a minimum of 45 days from the date
        submitted for the development of a technical solution to satisfy the requirement.
        1.1.12. Once TS&C is completed, the VANCEAFB115 will be emailed back to the
        requester within 10 calendar days, unless the request is for storage media. See para
        1.1.13.
VANCEAFBI33-222 21 MARCH 2013                                                                 3


     1.1.13. The contractor/IT planner will coordinate all requests for storage media or
     software designed to produce official electronic documents with the base records
     manager. Once coordination is completed, the contractor/IT planner will email
     VANCEAFB115 to the requester within 10 calendar days.
     1.1.14. The requester will review the completed form and email it to their Commander or
     Director, and have them check the appropriate funding and approval boxes, then digitally
     sign the VANCEAFB115 in the requester approval authority box.
     1.1.15. Unit Commander or Director sends completed VANCEAFB115 back to
     requester, who forwards it to the Vance Communications Requirements email box at
     vance.commreq@us.af.mil within 10 calendar days.
     1.1.16. Contractor/IT planner sends completed VANCEAFB115 to the host base
     approval authority for signature. Approval authority for TS&C greater than $250K is 71
     CS Commander; $250K or less is 71 CS Plans and Resources Flight Chief.
     1.1.17. If the host base approval authority approves, he/she will indicate their approval
     by checking the approved block, apply digital signature, then email signed
     VANCEAFB115 to the contractor/IT planner.
     1.1.18. If the host base approval authority requires additional information prior to
     approving, he/she will work with the contractor/IT planner to obtain required
     information.
     1.1.19. If the host base approval authority disapproves, he/she will check the
     disapproved block and provide an explanation, and forward all to the contractor/IT
     planner.
     1.1.20. Contractor/ IT planner will send the requester the completed VANCEAFB115 for
     funding and implementation.
     1.1.21. Contractor/IT planner will keep requesters informed of status of all open Vance
     Form 115 and track until requirement is completed or canceled by the requester.
     1.1.22. Requirements that may result in configuration changes to the Vance AFB enclave
     baseline must meet the Vance AFB CCB; the CCB meets monthly or as needed.
  1.2. Functional unique requirements, such as security cameras, will not be accepted.
  Functional POCs will determine the equipment list and connectivity specifications. Once
  this is done, the requester must submit a VANCEAFB115 for the communications
  infrastructure, using the C&I requirements process to determine the associated
  communications support required (for example, fiber optic cable) to support his or her unique
  system.
  1.3. When technical expertise isn’t locally available to develop a TS&C, 71 CS will request
  assistance from the Cyberspace Systems Integrator-Base (CSI-B). The CSI-B provides two
  levels of technical assistance.
     1.3.1. The first level provides a broad gauge estimate of costs associated with a solution,
     which is usually sufficient information for the user to decide to implement the solution.
     Once the user decides to implement the solution, the second level of technical assistance
     will be required.
 4                                                        VANCEAFBI33-222 21 MARCH 2013


        1.3.2. The second level contains detailed costs and requires more time and requester's
        funds to complete. This will usually require a site survey TDY funded by the requester to
        produce a TS&C.
2. AETC IT Requirements Process. In addition to the above procedures, some IT
requirements must be submitted to AETC/A6 for their approval. Allow an additional 30 days for
items requiring AETC/A6 approval.
     2.1. Following is a list of these types of requirements:
        2.1.1. Requirements to modify an existing system capability/develop new system
        capability exceeding $250,000 in a FY or $1M over the FYDP.
        2.1.2. Non-Standard IT Peripherals, i.e. IT equipment not available from AFWay or any
        USAF Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA).
        2.1.3. MAJCOM funded long–haul circuits.
        2.1.4. Radio Frequency/Spectrum support.
        2.1.5. Video teleconferencing.
        2.1.6. Secret Internet Protocol Routing Network (SIPRNet) requirements.
        2.1.7. Engineering and Installation (E&I) Out of Cycle requirements.
        2.1.8. Requirements with the potential to be used by, or affect more than one base.
        2.1.9. Requirements for Automated Information Systems (AIS).
     2.2. Prior to the communications squadron submission to the HQ AETC/A6, AETC policy
     mandates all requirements be endorsed at the O-6 level (any Group/CC, Wing/CC, and Wing
     CV) and then be routed through the local communications squadron commander stating the
     requirement is a valid mission need or deficiency. O-6 level endorsement will be indicated
     by e-signature in the requester approval authority block on the VANCEAFB115.
3. Allocating Resources. The requesting organization identifies C&I systems requirements and
allocates resources to satisfy those requirements. The requesting organization follows
established local, MAJCOM, and Air Force procedures to obtain resources to implement and
sustain the technical solution. In some instances, the CSO will assist the requester to obtain the
resources, especially when the CSO’s communications activity will provide manpower to operate
or maintain the C&I system.
     3.1. If funds are not available at the time of approval, the requester and CSO will be
     responsible for determining funding strategy for the implementation of the requirement.
     3.2. In all cases, the requesting organization is responsible for initiating, coordinating, and
     completing all funding documentation to include but not limited to AF Form 9, Request for
     Purchase, statement of unfunded requirements, etc. as required.
4. Implementing the Requirement. Implementation begins when the requester obtains funds
and other resources. The requester may ask for CSO assistance to implement the requirement.
Implementing a requester’s requirement could be as simple as suggesting a commercial off-the-
shelf (COTS) software or as complex as providing a $1 million solution.
VANCEAFBI33-222 21 MARCH 2013                                                                  5


   4.1. If the requirement is approved, funded, and requires no assistance from the
   Communications Squadron, it will be closed once the requirement is forwarded back to the
   requester.
   4.2. If the requirement is approved but unfunded and requires no assistance from the
   Communications Squadron, it will be closed once the requirement is forwarded back to the
   requester.
   4.3. If the requirement is approved, funded, and requires assistance from multiple parties
   within the Communications Squadron or external organizations, it will remain open. The 71
   CS Plans and Resources Flight Chief will ensure a project manager is assigned in accordance
   with 71 CS OI 33-104 and implement the project in accordance with TO 00-33D-3003 and
   established guidelines. The 71 CS and CSI-B will ensure the base blueprint is updated
   appropriately. Once the requirement is satisfied, it will be closed.
   4.4. If the requirement is approved, funded, and requires the assistance of a single function,
   the contractor/IT planner will track the requirement until it is completed. The 71 CS and
   CSI-B will ensure the base blueprint is updated appropriately. Once the requirement is
   satisfied, it will be closed.
   4.5. If the requirement is approved and unfunded but requires assistance, the requester,
   Communications Squadron, and CSI-B will determine the best funding strategy. The 71 CS
   and CSI-B will ensure the base blueprint is updated appropriately. The requirement will
   remain open until it is satisfied or the user cancels it.
5. AFWAY Procedures. AFWay is the Air Force portal for purchasing IT hardware, software,
and services that provides users with leveraged buying power, asset tracking, and oversight. AF
Policy requires all desktop and laptop computers be purchased via the AFWay process.
However, IT customers are encouraged to check AFWay for all of your IT needs. Items
requested via AFWay do not require a VANCE AFB115. Procedures can be found at
https://www.afway.af.mil/.




                                            DARREN V. JAMES, Colonel, USAF Commander,
                                            71st Flying Training Wing
 6                                                  VANCEAFBI33-222 21 MARCH 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 22 December 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records,1 March 2008
TO 00-33D-3003, Managing the Cyberspace Infrastructure with the Cyberspace Infrastructure
Planning System, 15 February 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 9, Request for Purchase
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
Prescribed Forms
VANCEAFB115, Vance C&I Requirements Document

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
CCB—Configuration Control Board
C&I—Communications and Information
CS—Communication Squadron
CSI-B—Cyberspace Systems Integrator-Base
CSO—Communications and Information Systems Officer
DIACAP—Department of Defense Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation
Process
FMP—Flight Manuals Program
IA—Information Assurance
IAW—In Accordance With
IT—Information Technology
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TO—Technical Order
TS&C—Technical Solution and Costing
