BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         VANCE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
71ST FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)                                             31-202

                                                                                26 APRIL 2012

                                                                                        Security

                                                              DEPENDENT REVIEW BOARD

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 SFS/S5R                                                        Certified by: 71 MSG/CC
                                                                     (Col Michael B. McDaniel)
                                                                                        Pages: 11


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense, 28
October 2011, Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-201, Security Forces Standards and Procedures,
30 March 2009, and Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 31-201, Volume 7, Security Forces
Administration and Reports (SFAR/S5R), 28 August 2009. It establishes the Vance Air Force
Base (AFB) Dependent Review Board (DRB) and provides guidance and standard procedures for
cases of dependent misconduct referred to the board. It applies to all active duty and retired US
military dependents whose sponsors are assigned and/or attached, either as permanent party or on
temporary duty at Vance AFB, whose family members reside on or use facilities on Vance AFB
as well as to dependents of military members residing on but not attached to Vance AFB. The
objective of the DRB is to promote good order and discipline and is intended to be rehabilitative
rather than punitive in nature. This publication requires the collection and or maintenance of
information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the
Air Force: Powers and duties; delegation by and Chapter 47 – Uniform Code of Military Justice
and AFMAN 31-201, Volume 7. The applicable Privacy Act SORNs F031 AF SF C,
Complaint/Incident Reports (August 7, 2009, 74 FR 39674) and F031 AF SP J, Serious Incident
reports (June 11, 1997, 62 FR 31793) are available at http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/ .
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air Force
Records     Disposition      Schedule    (RDS)       located     at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/ Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the
Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change to
Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field through the Vance AFB Publications and Forms
Manager. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP].
Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the form.)
 2                                                          VANCEAFBI31-202 26 APRIL 2012



1. Overview. This instruction establishes responsibilities and procedures for effective
management of the Dependent Review Board (DRB).
2. Terms. A description of terms are defined in Attachment 1 to this publication.
3. Purpose.
     3.1. The DRB is an administrative (non-criminal and informal in nature) body formed under
     the authority of the 71 FTW/CC. The DRB recommends action to the 71 MSG/CC, in order
     to ensure dependent misconduct does not disrupt the good order and discipline of Vance
     AFB. The primary goal of the DRB is to rehabilitate dependent offenders, while at the same
     time preserving good order and discipline on Vance AFB.
     3.2. Recommendations for action by the DRB will not constitute a criminal record. All
     proceedings before the DRB are confidential, and no information derived from it is releasable
     to any person or organization without the consent of the dependent’s sponsor.
     3.3. Proceedings before the DRB shall be informal and noncriminal in nature. The rules of
     evidence shall not apply in any form to DRB proceedings. The offender and their sponsor do
     not have the right to cross-examine witnesses called by the DRB or the right to call a witness.
     The DRB should consider any reasonable recommendations offered by the dependent’s
     sponsor.
4. Policy. The following policies shall apply to the application of the DRB:
     4.1. Not every instance of dependent misconduct will be brought before the DRB. This
     instruction is not intended to take away the unit commander’s ability to handle issues at the
     unit level. Unit commanders may elect to counsel, reprimand, or take other appropriate
     actions towards their Airmen after consulting with the Staff Judge Advocate’s office. Such
     action may be in addition to the recommended actions of the DRB.
     4.2. The DRB will hear cases involving misconduct perpetrated by dependent military
     family members whose sponsors are assigned to or live on Vance AFB. Only those cases
     reflecting a trend of misconduct or behavioral patterns serious enough to warrant command
     interest will be considered by the DRB. These cases include, but are not limited to,
     violations of all governing laws, instructions, and regulations.
     4.3. Actions recommended by the DRB will be designed to rehabilitate the offender when
     possible, and to preserve good order and discipline on Vance AFB. These actions do not
     constitute a criminal record. The Staff Judge Advocate should refer more serious instances
     of dependent misconduct, such as violent crimes or thefts and vandalism over $500, to
     appropriate state or federal criminal authorities.
     4.4. All proceedings before the DRB are confidential, and no information derived from it is
     releasable to any person or organization without the consent of the dependent’s sponsor.
     4.5. Sponsors of dependents brought before the DRB must appear with their dependents.
     The sponsor’s failure to appear, after proper notification, may constitute a violation of Article
     92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), Failure to Obey a Lawful Order. If a juvenile
     dependent has a non-military parent, that parent is also strongly encouraged to appear with
     the juvenile. A military sponsor on temporary duty (TDY), who is unable to meet the DRB,
VANCEAFBI31-202 26 APRIL 2012                                                                  3


   will be notified of the DRB appointment by the sponsor's unit, and the current guardian of the
   juvenile will be requested to bring the juvenile to appear before the DRB. Sponsors will
   acknowledge receipt of the decision letter within 5 duty days from receipt by endorsing and
   returning the memorandum to the Dependent Review Officer.
5. Responsibilities. Individual responsibilities pertaining to the DRB are as follows:
   5.1. The 71 FTW/CC is responsible for maintaining good order and discipline on Vance
   AFB. The 71 FTW/CC is the authority for the establishment of the DRB.
   5.2. The 71 MSG/CC is responsible for DRB management. The DRB meets at his/her
   direction. The 71 MSG/CC or 71 MSG Deputy Commander (71 MSG/CD) must sign the
   Order to Appear.
   5.3. The 71 MSG/CD is the chairperson of the DRB, and will preside over the DRB.
   5.4. The 71 SFS/CC will appoint a Dependent Review Officer (DRO) to oversee the
   administration of the DRB. The 71 SFS/CC or designated representative (as approved by the
   71 MSG/CC) is required to attend the DRB.
   5.5. The DRO will:
       5.5.1. Review all incident/complaint reports pertaining to dependents provided by the 71
       SFS Reports and Analysis Section (71 SFS/S5R).
       5.5.2. Schedule a board when directed by the 71 MSG/CC.
       5.5.3. Advise the board members of the appropriate uniform for duty (uniform of the
       day) and the date and time of the scheduled DRB.
       5.5.4. Notify the military sponsor of the DRB by routing an Order to Appear letter
       (signed by the 71 MSG/CC or 71 MSG/CD) through the sponsor's commander. The
       Order to Appear letter will inform the sponsor of the location and time of the DRB and
       will provide other instructions such as appropriate uniform to be worn.
       5.5.5. Prepare a complete case report, including a history of the dependents for all
       members of the DRB.
       5.5.6. Prepare a post-hearing decision letter for either 71 MSG/CC or 71 MSG/CD
       signature, addressed to the dependent offender and their sponsor, announcing the formal
       disposition of the case. The DRO will ensure appropriate legal review before forwarding
       documentation for signature.
       5.5.7. Maintain records for each DRB session.
   5.6. Sponsors are responsible for the conduct of their dependents and for ensuring
   compliance with applicable state and federal laws and governing Vance AFB instructions.
6. DRB Procedures.
   6.1. At a minimum, the following positions/offices are required to attend the DRB: 71
   MSG/CD (Chairperson), DRO, 71 FTW Judge Advocate (JA), and 71 SFS/DFC.
   6.2. The DRB chairperson may request the attendance of other personnel to include, but not
   limited to: 71 MDG, senior enlisted person (Chief or First Sergeant), squadron commander,
 4                                                            VANCEAFBI31-202 26 APRIL 2012


     Airmen and Family Readiness Center representative, Mental Health, 71 SFS Investigator (71
     SFS/S2I), Fire and/or local school official.
     6.3. During DRB proceedings, only the following people shall be present in the hearing
     room:
        6.3.1. The Board members and its advisors, as indicated in paragraphs 6.1. and 6.2.
        6.3.2. The military sponsor of subject dependent.
        6.3.3. The non-military parents of subject dependent if dependent is under the age of 18.
        6.3.4. Subject dependent.
        6.3.5. No other person shall be permitted access to the hearing room while the DRB is in
        session without the express permission of the parents of the alleged offender.
     6.4. The dependent and/or sponsor may make an oral statement. Any other information
     provided must be in writing. This is not an adversarial hearing. The dependent offender and
     their sponsor have no right to have legal counsel or an attorney represent them during the
     hearing, nor do they have the right to cross-examine witnesses called by the DRB or the right
     to call witnesses. The DRB should request and consider any reasonable recommendations
     offered by the dependent’s sponsor.
     6.5. After all parties have an opportunity to speak, the Chairperson; with the consent of the
     other DRB members will recess the hearing for deliberations. The DRB will then decide
     whether the dependent was involved in the alleged misconduct. The DRB's findings will be
     based on preponderance of evidence and by majority vote of those members present. The 71
     MSG/CD will determine the final recommendation.
7. Actions of the DRB. After considering the evidence of misconduct, the dependent’s and
sponsor's responses to the alleged misconduct, and the best interests of Vance AFB, the DRB
will render findings of fact based on preponderance of the evidence, and will make
recommendations to the 71 MSG/CC concerning any corrective action for final approval.
Recommendations may include but are not limited to:
     7.1. No further action/dismissal of charges.
     7.2. Oral counseling or reprimand of the dependent and/or the dependent’s military sponsor
     by the appropriate commander.
     7.3. Written admonishment or warning letter to the dependent and/or sponsor.
     7.4. Dependent preparation of an essay reflecting on dependent’s misconduct.
     7.5. Referral of the dependent and/or sponsor to an appropriate agency for counseling,
     information, or treatment.
     7.6. Referral of the dependent to an educational program.
     7.7. Community service.
     7.8. Restitution.
     7.9. Restricted curfew.
     7.10. Placing particular areas and facilities on the installation off-limits.
VANCEAFBI31-202 26 APRIL 2012                                                                   5


   7.11. Revocation/suspension of driving privileges.
   7.12. Barment of the dependent from the installation.
   7.13. Termination of base housing privileges.
   7.14. Referral to local civil criminal authorities.
   7.15. Other actions as deemed appropriate by the DRB.
8. Service of Actions.
   8.1. The DRO will provide the final decision and actions to be taken, in writing, to the
   sponsor, dependent and sponsor’s commander. The sponsor will acknowledge receipt of the
   decision by endorsing and returning the memorandum to the DRO within 5 duty days from
   receipt.
9. Disposition Instructions.
   9.1. Records will be kept by the DRO of each DRB session. The records will be kept under
   the dependent’s name and will be destroyed upon the juvenile’s 21st birthday, PCS, or
   sponsor’s separation from service.
10. Command Action.
   10.1. If applicable, command action taken will be documented on Section VIII,
   ―COMMANDER’S SECTION‖ of the AF Form 3545, Incident Report, and returned to 71
   SFS/S5R to be filed as prescribed by instructions governing the use of that incident report.
11. Completion of Actions.
   11.1. The sponsor's unit commander or first sergeant will ensure all assignments directed by
   the DRB are carried out promptly and will report to the DRO when all actions are completed.
12. Appeal.
   12.1. The sponsor has the right to appeal and findings or actions taken. The sponsor must
   submit a written appeal to the DRO within 10 calendar days of receipt of the final decision.
   The appeal must be addressed to the 71 FTW/CC and will be routed through 71 FTW/JA and
   71 MSG/CC. At a minimum, the statement of appeal should address the reasons why the
   actions taken against the dependent were too severe or inappropriate. The appellate
   authority’s decision is final.
13. Suspension, Mitigation, Remission, and Setting Aside Administrative Sanctions.
   13.1. The 71 FTW/CC may, upon his or her own action or upon appeal, suspend, mitigate,
   remit or set aside any portion of previously approved actions. The 71 FTW/CC reserves the
   right to vacate any previously suspended actions without referring the case to the DRB upon
   another act of misconduct by the dependent.
       13.1.1. Suspension. To suspend administrative sanctions means to postpone all or part of
       the administrative sanctions for a specific probationary period with the understanding that
       it will be automatically remitted at the end of that period if the offender does not engage
       in further misconduct.
       13.1.2. Mitigation. The administrative sanctions may be changed to a less severe
       administrative sanction(s) in quantity or type.
 6                                                        VANCEAFBI31-202 26 APRIL 2012


        13.1.3. Remission. The offender is excused from the unexecuted portion of any
        administrative sanctions.
        13.1.4. Set Aside. The cancellation of any of the administrative sanctions in whole or in
        part when it appears the offender has suffered a clear injustice.
14. Failure to Comply.
     14.1. Failure to comply with any actions as a result of the DRB will be documented by the
     DRO and sent to the DRB Chairperson. If the DRB Chairperson determines the dependent
     has failed to comply, the DRB Chairperson may take additional action including, but not
     limited to, one of the following: letter of warning; scheduling the dependent and sponsor for
     another DRB; recommending barment of the dependent from the installation; or
     recommending termination of base housing privileges for the sponsor.




                                             RUSSELL L. MACK, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
VANCEAFBI31-202 26 APRIL 2012                                                       7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References:
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 28 October 2011
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 22 December 2008
AFI 31-201, Security Forces Standards and Procedures, 30 March 2009
AFMAN 31-201, Volume 7, Security Forces Administration and Reports (SFAR/S5R), 28
August 2009
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 3545, Incident Report, 11 May 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
CC—Commander
CD—Deputy Commander
DFC—Defense Force Commander
DRB—Dependent Review Board
DOD—Department of Defense
DRO—Dependent Review Officer
FMP—Flight Manual Program
FTW—Flight Training Wing
MDG—Medical Group
MSG—Mission Support Group
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SFAR—Security Forces Administration and Reports
 8                                                        VANCEAFBI31-202 26 APRIL 2012


SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SJA—Staff Judge Advocate
TDY—Temporary Duty
UCMJ—Uniform Code of Military Justice

Terms
Dependent—Any person for whom a military member is legally responsible, to include the
following: spouse; any person under the age of 18 for whom the military member has legal or
physical custody; any unmarried natural children of the military member or spouse; and any
person dependent on the military member or spouse for their care, maintenance, or support
regardless of age.
Dependent Review Board (DRB)—The committee charged with reviewing cases of dependent
misconduct referred by the Dependent Review Officer (DRO). Periodic hearings held at the call
of the 71st Mission Support Group Commander (71 MSG/CC), in which dependent offenders
and their sponsors meet the committee to examine the facts and relevant circumstances
surrounding incidents referred to the committee. The DRB will establish recommendations for
action intended for rehabilitation, accountability, and restitution for the misconduct and pursuant
to the furtherance of good order and discipline on Vance AFB.
Misconduct—Any violation of governing laws, instructions, or regulations; behavior that is
wrongful and threatens the safety, health, welfare, or quiet enjoyment of base housing residents;
and any conduct that adversely affects good order and discipline on Vance AFB.
Sponsor—Military member responsible for the dependent.
VANCEAFBI31-202 26 APRIL 2012                                                                     9


                                          Attachment 2
                                     ORDER TO APPEAR



MEMORANDUM FOR [RANK, NAME OF MILITARY SPONSOR]
               [NAME OF DEPENDENT]

FROM: 71 MSG/CC
      246 Brown Parkway, Suite 230
      Vance AFB OK 73703-5036

SUBJECT: Notification of Dependent Review Board Hearing

1. Security Forces records indicate that your dependent, XXXXX, was involved in an incident
on XXXXX. XXXXX was involved with XXXXX. As a sponsor, you are responsible for the
actions of your dependent.

2. As a result of your dependent’s actions, you are directed to appear at a Dependent Review
Board (DRB) hearing. Your dependent will accompany you. You have been scheduled to
appear before the DRB with your dependent on XXXXX at XXXXX in the Court Room,
Building 455. The DRB is non-criminal in nature and hears all cases referred in which a
dependent is alleged to have engaged in misconduct on Vance AFB. This is a closed hearing and
is not open to the public. Your Commander, First Sergeant, and spouse may attend upon your
request.

3. The hearing will offer you and your dependent the opportunity to explain your dependent’s
actions, refute any allegations and inform the DRB of any other issues you wish to be
considered. You and/or your dependent may make an oral statement and provide any other
information you wish to be considered, in written form only, to the DRB.

4. The DRB, after hearing all the evidence, will take appropriate command action. Upon
completion of the DRB, you will be notified of corrective actions, if any, recommended by the
board. Recommendations may include but are not limited to: no further action/dismissal; oral
counseling; written admonishment or warning letter to the dependent and/or sponsor; preparation
of an essay reflecting on their misconduct; referral of dependent and/or sponsor to an appropriate
agency for counseling, information, or treatment; referral of the dependent to an educational
program; community service; restitution; restricted curfew; placing particular areas and facilities
on the installation off-limits; revocation/suspension of driving privileges; barment of the
dependent from the installation; termination of base housing privileges; referral to local civil
criminal authorities; or other actions as deemed appropriate by the DRB.

5. If you and your dependent are unable to attend because of scheduled leave, TDY, or other
unavoidable commitments, you may request a delay through the 71st Security Forces Reports
and Analysis office at 213-5522.
 10                                                       VANCEAFBI31-202 26 APRIL 2012


6. Failure to appear before the scheduled DRB, or comply with the decision of the Chairperson,
may result in immediate command action and/or your dependent’s case being forwarded to the
local authorities for disposition.

7. You will acknowledge receipt of this letter below and return it to the 71st Security Forces
Reports and Analysis office, Bldg 72, within 5 calendar days of receipt.

8. If you have any questions concerning the upcoming hearing, contact the 71st Security Forces
Reports and Analysis office at 213-5522.

MSG/CC (NAME), Colonel, USAF
Commander, 71st Mission Support Group


1st Ind, [RANK NAME of Military Sponsor
MEMORANDUM FOR 71 SFS/S5R
I hereby acknowledge receipt and understanding of the contents of the foregoing letter of
Dependent Review Board hearing on this _______ day of _____________ 20__.

       ___________________________________
       XXXXX
       Sponsor
VANCEAFBI31-202 26 APRIL 2012                                                11


                                 Attachment 3
                          DRB RECOMMENDATION.

    NAME: [LAST, FIRST]
    OFFENSES:
    SUMMARY OF FACTS:         On XXXXX, [Name] was XXXXX.

                              Member's sponsor is [Rank, Name, Squadron of
                              Military Sponsor].

    RECOMMENDATIONS:          JUVENILE                 MILITARY SPONSOR
    ORAL COUNSELING           Y/N                      Y/N
    ORAL REPRIMAND            Y/N                      Y/N
    WRITTEN WARNING           Y/N                      Y/N
    WRITTEN                   Y/N                      Y/N
    ADMONISHMENT
    WRITTEN ESSAY             Y/N   #______WORDS       N/A
    SHOPLIFTER’S COURSE       Y/N                      N/A
    COMMUNITY SERVICE         Y/N                      N/A
    RESTITUTION               Y/N   $                  N/A
    CURFEW RESTRICTION        Y/N                      N/A
    FACILITIES                Y/N   LOCATION(S):       N/A
    RESTRICTION/BARMENT
    INSTALLATION              Y/N                      N/A
    BARMENT
    TERMINATION OF GOVT       N/A                      Y/N
    QUARTERS
    REFERRAL TO AGENCY        Y/N       AGENCIES:      Y/N     AGENCIES:
    (e.g., Family Advocacy,
    Mental Health Services,
    Chaplain, Alcohol/Drug,
    etc.)
    REFERRAL TO CIVILIAN      Y/N                      N/A
    CRIMINAL COURT
    OTHER:                    Y/N                      Y/N


    LEGAL REVIEW:                                      DATE:
    CONCUR/NONCONCUR
    71 MSG/CD SIGNED:                                  DATE:
