BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         VANCE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
71ST FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)                                             48-105

                                                                            4 NOVEMBER 2011

                                                                             Aerospace Medicine

                                                        EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT OF
                                                   PERSONNEL EXPOSED TO HYDRAZINE

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 MDG/CC                                                        Certified by: 71 MDG/CC
                                                                     (Colonel Douglas B. Curry)
Supersedes:    VANCEAFBI 48-105,                                                        Pages: 7
               1 December 2008


This instruction implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD)
48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, 3 October 2005. It prescribes the policies and procedures
for the emergency and follow-up treatment of personnel exposed to Hydrazine (Hz). This
instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55, 10 U.S.C. 8013, 29 CFR 1960, and E.O. 9397. System of records
notice F044 AF SG E, Medical Records System and F044 AF SG R, Reporting of Medical
Conditions of Public Health and Military Significance, applies. Ensure that all records created as
a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the
Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cft. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change to Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the Vance AFB Publications and Forms Manager. (AF
Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that
publication for guidance on filling out the form.)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Added AFMAN 48-155, Occupational and Environmental Health Exposure Controls, 1 October
2008 to References.
1. General information:
 2                                                       VANCEAFBI48-105 4 November 2011


     1.1. Hydrazine Toxicology: Hz (HxNxHx) is potentially toxic to the liver and kidney and is
     dangerous on exposure by inhalation, ingestion, or topical contact. The toxicity of Hz to
     biological systems requires prompt and effective action when accidental exposure occurs. It
     is a central nervous system depressant in large doses and a powerful reducing agent that
     causes burns to exposed skin and irritation to the lungs. Typically, one sees dermatitis,
     conjunctivitis, or inflamed mucous membranes within minutes of acute exposure.
     Pneumonitis or pulmonary edema may also develop, but not without obvious burns of the
     pharynx or nose. Pulmonary edema may be delayed four to eight hours. Sufficient exposure
     may produce blindness, while massive exposure may lead to convulsions. Chronic exposure
     to low levels of Hz (5-50 ppm) for long periods (5 hours/day x 30-60 days) may lead to liver,
     kidney, and blood disorders.
     1.2. H-70 is composed of 70% Hz, 30% water and has a slight ammonia-like odor which
     becomes more apparent when burned. Approximately 40% of the combustion bi-products of
     Hz are ammonia.
     1.3. Hz Occupational Exposure Limit (OEL): The Air Force follows the American
     Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH) threshold limit value time
     weighted average exposure guidelines of 0.01 parts per million (ppm). This is a
     concentration that nearly all workers may be repeatedly exposed to for eight hours per day,
     five days a week, without adverse effect.
        1.3.1. Adverse effects of Hz exposure include:
            1.3.1.1. Central Nervous System: When exposed to large doses, Hz can cause central
            nervous system depression.
            1.3.1.2. Respiratory System: Inhalation can cause pulmonary edema and or irritation
            to the nose and throat.
            1.3.1.3. Kidneys: When exposed to large doses, nonspecific injury may result.
            1.3.1.4. Skin: When exposed to large doses, irritation, severe dermatitis, or
            penetrating burns may result.
            1.3.1.5. Ocular: Hz is a powerful corrosive agent; the vapor is highly irritating and
            may cause delayed eye irritation. Permanent corneal lesions may result if the liquid
            has splashed into the eyes.
            1.3.1.6. Carcinogenesis: Adenocarcinoma of the liver and lungs has been reported in
            animal studies.
2. Exposures:
     2.1. Exposure: Potential for vapor inhalation or direct skin contact with liquid exists during
     F-16 emergency power unit (EPU) servicing, F-16 crash recovery, Hz drum and tank
     handling. Potential exposure also exists during leakage from Hz transfer lines inside the Hz
     storage facility.
        2.1.1. During F-16 pre-launch check out, vapor inhalation can occur if the EPU is fired
        accidentally. A trace amount of Hz vapor may be present in the exhaust for the first few
        minutes of operation as the EPU heats up. An Hz vapor concentration of 0.24 ppm has
        been measured at approximately 12 inches from the exhaust duct. Only catastrophic
VANCEAFBI48-105 4 November 2011                                                               3


      mechanical malfunction during pre-launch could result in potential for contact with liquid
      Hz. In-flight firings of the EPU present no hazard from EPU exhaust for recovery
      personnel, as all Hz is consumed.
   2.2. Exposure scenarios requiring intervention:
      2.2.1. Any individual without proper personal protective equipment (PPE) in an area
      where vapor levels of Hz are measured or estimated by Bioenvironmental Engineering
      (BE) or other trained response personnel to be above the OEL.
      2.2.2. Any person without PPE that has been engulfed by a visible cloud of EPU exhaust.
      CAUTION: The visible exhaust is not Hz. Flightline workers and emergency response
      personnel are taught that if they smell ammonia, they have been exposed to Hz. Direct
      exposure to EPU exhaust is primarily an exposure to ammonia vapor and is not
      considered a medically significant exposure to Hz. A worker can be exposed to 0.2 ppm
      of Hz vapor for at least 25 minutes before exceeding the OEL. Only in the event of
      contact with liquid is it necessary to decontaminate the exposed worker. The on-scene
      flight surgeon will decide if decontamination is needed. It is also very important to
      determine whether the workers were directly contaminated by exhaust of an activated
      EPU and for how long, or whether they were only in the area and smelled ammonia
      briefly.
      2.2.3. A pilot or other individual found or suspected to have been contaminated with Hz
      in the cockpit (not breathing 100% oxygen).
      2.2.4. Any individual suspected by a physician to have been exposed to Hz by any route.
      2.2.5. Any individual to whom the criteria above does not apply, but nevertheless
      complains of dizziness, nausea, burning skin or mucous membranes, lacrimation ,or
      coughing and believes the symptoms may be related to Hz exposure.
3. Incident response:
   3.1. Responsibilities:
      3.1.1. Fire Department personnel normally make the initial response to any hydrazine
      incident site.     Standard procedures are already in place.       When needed for
      decontamination, Fire Department personnel will provide a rinse water reservoir, such as
      a child's plastic wading pool, 5-gallon plastic buckets for draining the pool after
      neutralization, and four to six gallons of household bleach.
      3.1.2. The fire chief, as on-scene commander, may request additional forces. Medical
      Group activities (i.e., Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE), flight surgeon, etc.) will
      respond as directed.
      3.1.3. If needed, the Environmental Program manager will provide one or more 25-30
      gallon plastic DOT drums and a drum dolly for removing treated water from the
      decontamination site. Environmental personnel will also provide on-scene disposal
      guidance.
      3.1.4. If needed, BE will also provide air sampling to determine when the Hz has been
      neutralized and guidance/assistance with the decontamination and neutralization process.
4                                                      VANCEAFBI48-105 4 November 2011


       3.1.5. Personnel responding to the incident will move exposed workers to a safe location,
       80 - 160 feet upwind of the incident site. DO NOT DELAY REMOVAL OF ANY
       CLOTHING CONTAMINATED WITH LIQUID HZ.
    3.2. Non-Medical Actions:
       3.2.1. On-scene decontamination of an exposed worker will be accomplished when:
           3.2.1.1. The worker had direct skin (or clothing) contact with liquid Hz.
           3.2.1.2. The worker believes he or she had direct contact with Hz.
           3.2.1.3. The on-scene commander decides decontamination is needed. Once a
           decision to decontaminate is made, under no circumstances will the patient be
           transported without first being decontaminated on scene. At isolated outside areas,
           the fire chief can dispatch a Fire Department vehicle and team to hose down the
           patient.
       3.2.2. Remove all contaminated clothing, including boots. Wash the patient with mild
       soap (if available), flush with water for 15 minutes, and then turn the patient over to on-
       scene medical personnel.
       3.2.3. On scene personnel will mix two to three gallons of bleach into the drum of wash
       water and add any items suspected of contamination (to include clothing and personal
       articles). After mixing, BE will test to determine whether additional bleach is needed to
       complete the Hz neutralization.
       3.2.4. The owning squadron will provide labor to assist as directed by the on-scene
       commander. The squadron will also assist environmental management in disposal
       actions and take possession of decontaminated clothing.
    3.3. Medical Actions:
       3.3.1. Treatment is symptomatic for convulsion. Diazepam or a short-acting barbiturate
       may be indicated, with due regard for the CNS depressant effect of hydrazine. The use of
       pyridoxine (Vitamin B6) in advance of CNS involvement is controversial. It does not
       appear to be helpful in prophylaxis of CNS symptoms.
       3.3.2. Admit any patient with shortness of breath, burns of the pharynx or nose, ingestion
       of liquid Hz or severe skin burns to the hospital. The main concern is the possibility of
       delayed pulmonary edema.
       3.3.3. CAUTION:      Exposure to EPU exhaust should be treated as an exposure to
       ammonia.
       3.3.4. Laboratory -- Unless otherwise directed by the treating physician, the following
       tests will be performed on all suspected, symptomatic or actual exposures to skin, vapor
       or ingestion:
           3.3.4.1. Immediately obtain specimens for: Aspartate transminase (AST), Alanine
           amino-transferase (ALT), Gamma Glutamyl Transferase (GGT), Complete Blood
           Count (CBC) and Differential (Diff) Urinalysis (UA) with Microscopic (Micro)
           evaluation. Perform and record a pulmonary function test. Obtain posterior-anterior
           and lateral chest X-rays (physician discretion).
VANCEAFBI48-105 4 November 2011                                                               5


        3.3.4.2. At 24 hours and seven days post exposure (fasting state) repeat: AST, ALT,
        GGT, CBC, and Diff and UA with micro.
        3.3.4.3. Repeat abnormal results.
        3.3.4.4. At physician's discretion, patients with minor skin burns or conjunctival
        irritation may be followed as outpatients. An individual with no physical signs or
        symptoms and or laboratory evidence of adverse effect may return to work associated
        with possible Hz exposure at physician’s discretion. Otherwise healthy personnel
        with minor liver function test deviations that return to normal values within 48 hours
        can be returned to work with Hz no sooner than 72 hours from exposure. In this
        situation, follow up liver function tests should be performed monthly for three
        months.
        3.3.4.5. All follow-up treatment, analysis of laboratory tests, and definitive care will
        be administered by a flight surgeon. Return-to-work determination for personnel with
        chronic Hz exposure and abnormal liver, kidney, or hematologic tests will be
        determined by the senior flight surgeon, the Commander, 71st Medical Group, or HQ
        AETC/SGP.
     3.3.5. All Hz exposures resulting in illness for active duty personnel will be reported on
     AF Form 190, Occupational Illness/Injury Report.




                                            RUSSELL L. MACK, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
 6                                                 VANCEAFBI48-105 4 November 2011


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, 3 October 2005
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFI 48-101, Aerospace Medical Operations, 19 August 2005
AFI 48-145, Occupational and Environmental Health Program, 5 March 2008
AFMAN 48-155, Occupational and Environmental Health Exposure Controls, 1 October 2008
ACGIH Threshold Limit Values for Chemical Substances and Physical Agents Biological
Exposure Indices
Adopted Forms
AF Form 190, Occupational Illness/Injury Report
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
ACGIH—American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists
AETC—Air Education Training Command
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ALT—Alanine amino-transferase
AST—Aspartate Transminase
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
CBC—Complete Blood Count
Diff—Differential
EPU—Emergency Power Unit
FMP—Flight Manuals Program
GGT—Gamma Glutamyl Transferase
HQ—Head Quarters
Hz—Hydrazine
Micro—Microscopic
VANCEAFBI48-105 4 November 2011        7


OEL— Occupational Exposure Limit
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
ppm—parts per million
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
UA—Urinalysis
