BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         VANCE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
HQ 71ST FLYING TRAINING WING                                                 65-101
(AETC)
                                                                           26 OCTOBER 2012
                                                          Incorporating Change 1, 18 June 2014

                                                                        Financial Management

                                                         WING FINANCIAL COST SAVINGS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publication and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 CPTS/FMA                                                      Certified by: 71 CPTS/CC
                                                                       (Maj Michael T. Bryant)
                                                                                        Pages: 8


This instruction outlines the financial policies for the 71st Flying Training Wing (FTW). It
identifies responsibilities and procedures pertaining to the financial processes of the 71 FTW to
assist in achieving cost savings. It supplements the Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 36-8,
Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Department of Defense Instruction (DODI) 7000.14-R,
DOD Financial Management Policy and Procedure, Joint Federal Travel Regulation (JTFR),
Joint Travel Regulation (JTR) and AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-wide Purchase Card
(GPC) Program. It applies to all personnel assigned or attached to the unit who perform
financial functions and official travel. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition                  Schedule               (RDS),                 located             at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-
215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out
the form.)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This interim change has been revised to include sections: A margin bar indicates newly revised
material.
1. Official Travel.
2                                                   VANCEAFBI65-101 26 OCTOBER 2012


    1.1. Receipts for Official Expenses.
       1.1.1. Providing Receipts.
           1.1.1.1. The JFTR/JTR requires receipts for all expenses equal to or greater than $75,
           rental car receipts and all lodging expenses, regardless of amount. Current financial
           restraints and increasing costs require a more stringent standard.
           1.1.1.2. Receipts must be included for all reimbursable expenses greater than $5
           claimed for official travel. Examples include parking fees, dry cleaning, and taxi
           cabs. Per diem is an entitlement and does not require receipts for food purchases.
    1.2. Use of Tax Exempt Forms.
       1.2.1. Tax exempt forms will be used when applicable.                        Reference
       http://apps.fas.gsa.gov/services/gsa-smartpay/taxletter/letters08.cfm to determine
       whether the state you are traveling to exempts lodging taxes. Common states traveled to
       by Vance members that exempt hotel occupancy taxes are Texas and Florida.
    1.3. Defense Travel Service (DTS) orders and purchase of commercial tickets.
       1.3.1. Orders in DTS will be completed at least 7 days prior to the TDY to ensure the
       most cost effective airline ticket prices.
           1.3.1.1. Short notice TDYs are exempt from this policy.
       1.3.2. Government mess must be used to the maximum extent practicable by members
       quartered on CONUS Installations unless government mess is not available.
           1.3.2.1. Exceptions are approved by the AO when it is determined the use of mess
           adversely affects mission performance; if there is excessive distance between the
           mess and places of duty and or lodging; transportation is not reasonably available or
           the duty hours and mess operating hours are not compatible.
       1.3.3. Reviewing Officials or RAs will be added to organizational routing lists and are to
       review DTS authorizations and vouchers prior to AO approval, using the AO
       authorization and voucher checklists as a guide for their review.
           1.3.3.1. The Reviewing Official or RA must be appointed in writing, using the DD
           Form 577. Must complete Certifying Officer Legislation (COL) training and provide
           training certificate to ODTA or LDTA for maintaining with the DD Form 577. DD
           Form 577 must include a statement indicating the individual being appointed has read
           and understands the AF DTS Business Rules. The DD Form 577 should only be
           issued after the COL training certificate has been received by the ODTA or LDTA.
           DoD FMR Vol 5, Chapter 33, paragraph 330302 advises appointees must take the
           COL training within 2 weeks of appointment and cannot perform any of the duties
           until taken.
           1.3.3.2. RAs cannot be appointed as an Approving Official.
    1.4. Mandatory Use of Government Owned Vehicles (GOVs).
       1.4.1. Travelers will utilize GOVs when possible in the following situations:
VANCEAFBI65-101 26 OCTOBER 2012                                                              3


        1.4.1.1. TDYs not involving an overnight stay: i.e. local area, Oklahoma City, Tulsa,
        Wichita.
        1.4.1.2. TDYs within 400 miles and under 5 days.
        1.4.1.3. Traveling with other personnel within 600 miles: i.e. San Antonio, Denver,
        Little Rock AFB.
        1.4.1.4. The orders Approving Official must approve the use of other transportation
        when GOVs are available prior to submission of Temporary Duty (TDY) orders.
        1.4.1.5. Above is subject to Transportation Manager determination of vehicle
        availability.
  1.5. Use of Privately Owned Conveyance (POC).
     1.5.1. POC use may be authorized/approved for travelers performing official business by
     the unit’s Approving Official (AO).
     1.5.2. POC use is encouraged when it is to the government’s advantage.
     1.5.3. POC authorization will be approved in advance of travel.
        1.5.3.1. POC travel may not be directed; but is permitted if it is in the government’s
        interest or for the employee’s convenience, as appropriate, when requested by the
        employee.
        1.5.3.2. A determination that POC use is more advantageous is made when the
        common carrier, rental car, or government transportation is not available or is not to
        the government’s advantage.
  1.6. Contractor Operated Base Shuttle Support.
     1.6.1. Contractor-operated base shuttle service to the airport will be used when feasible.
     The unit commander must approve all deviations.
        1.6.1.1. Per wing policy, 71 LRS will schedule shuttle services to combine multiple
        customers who have departures/arrivals within a 4 hour window.
        1.6.1.2. U-Drive It requests for terminal transportation will only be supported if
        dispatch does not have any drivers available.
        1.6.1.3. Above is subject to Transportation Manager determination of vehicle
        availability.
  1.7. Authorized Reimbursements.
     1.7.1. Per Diem rates will be paid based on the location of the TDY rather than the
     location of the lodging. If the per diem rate for the lodging location is higher than the
     TDY location, the higher rate can only be approved in extenuating circumstances. The
     traveler must provide a written statement attached to the voucher, and the AO may
     authorize/approve a higher per diem rate. The higher rate is not an automatic entitlement
     for the traveler and the AO should exercise prudence when approving the higher rate.
     1.7.2. Rental care and government operated vehicle fuel reimbursements are limited to
     and from the TDY location and to and from dining facilities. Fuel consumed for sight-
 4                                                    VANCEAFBI65-101 26 OCTOBER 2012


        seeing or personal trips are considered personal expenses and will not be reimbursed by
        the government.
        1.7.3. Postage and shipping costs for professional gear and paperwork are reimbursable.
        Shipping of personal gifts and souvenirs are a personal expense.
        1.7.4. Actual laundry and dry cleaning expenses are reimbursable up to $2.00 a day
        when travel within CONUS requires at least 7 consecutive nights (4 consecutive nights
        for federal civilians) TDY lodging. The $2.00 reimbursement is not an automatic
        entitlement to the traveler.
        1.7.5. Family Separation Allowance (FSA) may only be claimed if the TDY meets the
        following criteria:
            1.7.5.1. The TDY is away from the traveler’s permanent duty station continuously
            for more than 30 days and their dependents are not residing at or near the TDY
            location. Credit continues to accrue to for a traveler whose dependents visit at or near
            the TDY location continuously for 30 days or less.
            1.7.5.2. Travelers will complete a VANCEAFB165, FSA Supplemental, and submit it
            with a DD Form 1561, Family Separation Allowance - Temporary (FSA-T) to 71
            CPTS Finance Office for processing. FSA entitlements will not be processed until
            both forms are completed.
            1.7.5.3. Travelers will include the date departed the local area for TDY and include
            any dates the member’s dependents visited the TDY location by annotating on
            VANCEAFB165, FSA Supplemental .
        1.7.6. Rental cars must be authorized by the AO. The standard for TDY travel is a
        compact vehicle. If a compact vehicle does not meet mission requirements, any upgrade
        must be authorized by the AO. Charges for additional items to include Global
        Positioning Systems, child seats, etc., are a personal expense.
        1.7.7. Fees charged to the traveler for refreshments while in school or training are not
        reimbursable unless the traveler identifies the meals as “provided” on their travel
        voucher.
2. Printing.
     2.1. In accordance with the President of the United States Executive Order dated Nov 9,
     2011, page 2, Section 5, “Agencies are encouraged to limit the publication and printing of
     hard copy documents and to presume that information should b provided in an electronic
     form, whenever practicable, permitted by law, and consistent with applicable records
     retention requirements. Agencies should consider using acquisition vehicles developed by
     the OMB’s Federal Strategic Sourcing Initiative to acquire printing and copying devices and
     services.”
     2.2. PowerPoint briefing handouts if required will be two per page, at a minimum, and
     duplexed in order to reduce paper and ink consumption.
     2.3. Use of stand alone or personal printers will be minimal. Printers will be networked in
     order to reduce the number of printers in offices.
VANCEAFBI65-101 26 OCTOBER 2012                                                                  5


   2.4. Color printers and copiers will be set to black and white as a default. Color printing
   should be done only when absolutely necessary.
   2.5. Printouts will not be provided for meeting participants; personnel who desire hard
   copies should print the read-aheads prior to the briefing.
   2.6. Minor typographic and other administrative errors in local correspondence (memos,
   meeting minutes, Bullet Background papers) will be corrected with pen and ink. They will
   not be returned to the originator solely for the purpose of re-accomplishing the document.
      2.6.1. This does not apply to correspondence that leaves Vance AFB, correspondence
      that could be in a permanent record (EPRs, OPRs, decorations, etc.) or correspondence
      directive in nature (Vance AFB Instructions, etc.).
      2.6.2. AFMAN 33-326, Preparing Official Communications, and AFH 33-337, The
      Tongue and Quill, will be used in preparing official communications.
3. Awards.
   3.1. CHANGE TO READ:           Plaques and/or trophies for individual quarterly and annual
   awards will be purchased at a reasonable cost, not to exceed $45 for Quarterly awards and
   $75 for Annual awards.
      3.1.1. DELETED
      3.1.2. DELETED
   3.2. Awards will be purchased through the Vance AFB Skills Development Center when
   feasible.
   3.3. Decoration binders will be limited to first medal presentation use only, and will not be
   given to the member, except as required by AFI. Members will have the option of donating
   previously used decorations binders back to the organization to aid in overall supply cost
   savings.
      3.3.1. Thin certificate covers will be used for all other paper award certificates presented.
      Item number ESS29900235BGD-CASE on GSA advantage can be used as a reference to
      the type of certificate needed.
4. Uniform Items. Personnel must show serviceability of old uniforms to justify new uniform
purchases. Although AFI guidance authorizes equipment replacement at regular intervals for
certain personnel, the uniform items must show a need for replacement. This requirement
applies to all uniforms and personal protective equipment purchased with government funds.
5. Civilian Overtime.
   5.1. Supervisors must continually ensure that overtime work occurs only pursuant to mission
   needs.
   5.2. It must be properly documented and approved in advance of the overtime requirement,
   except in an emergency.
   5.3. Supervisors must also ensure compensatory time is taken within one year of earning and
   does not convert into overtime.
6. Government Purchase Card (GPC) Program.
6                                                  VANCEAFBI65-101 26 OCTOBER 2012


    6.1. GPC Limits.
       6.1.1. The GPC can be used to purchase supplies up to $3,000, services up to $2,500 and
       construction up to $2,000.
           6.1.1.1. If vendor has a GSA schedule, you are authorized up to $25,000.00
           providing cardholder has worked with 71st Contracting Flight to raise card
           purchasing limits.
       6.1.2. An approved AF Form 322, Work Order Request, is required for construction
       ($2,000 to include labor and tax).
       6.1.3. GSA schedule is not a blanket authorization to buy anything the vendor has to
       offer. Always ask vendor for their GSA schedule and verify their contract covers
       required purchases.
    6.2. GPC Prior Approvals.
       6.2.1. Some purchases or services require coordination with other base agencies and
       must be approved prior to purchase. GPC cardholders must ensure they obtain the
       required coordination and approval prior to any purchase. Reference AFI 64-117,
       paragraph 2.3 for a complete list of products/services requiring coordination and
       approval.
    6.3. All GPC cardholders must first confirm their item(s) is unavailable on the AF-mandated
    Unit Supplies Efficiencies List, known as Leon's List on Vance SharePoint, URL
    (https://vance.eis.aetc.af.mil/leon/default.aspx), prior to making any purchase with a GPC.




                                            DARREN V. JAMES, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
VANCEAFBI65-101 26 OCTOBER 2012                                                       7


                                          Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 64-117, Air Force Government-wide Purchase Card (GPC) Program
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 36-8, Employee Benefits and Entitlements and Department of Defense Instruction
DODI 7000.14-R, DOD Financial Management Policy and Procedure
Joint Federal Travel Regulation (JTFR),
Joint Travel Regulation (JTR)
Prescribed Forms
None
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AO—Approving Official
DOD—Department of Defense
DODI—Department of Defense Instruction
DTS—Defense Travel System
FMP—Flight Manuals Program
FTW—Flight Training Wing
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
GPC—Government Purchase Card
IAW—In Accordance With
JTFR—Joint Federal Travel Regulation
JTR—Joint Travel Regulation
LRS—Logistics Readiness Squadron
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
 8                                       VANCEAFBI65-101 26 OCTOBER 2012


POC—Privately Owned Conveyance
POD—Permissible Operating Distance
POV—Privately-Owned Vehicle
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SF—Standard Form
VAFBI—Vance Air Force Base Instruction
