BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                VANCE AFB INSTRUCTION 24-101
71ST FLYING TRAINING WING
                                                                           1 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                                 Transportation

                                                             AIR PASSENGER PROCESSING


               COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 LRS/LGTT                                                      Certified by: 71 MSG/CC
                                                                              (Col J. F. Cheney)
                                                                                         Pages: 8


This instruction establishes procedures for air passenger processing and manifesting for
personnel arriving and departing Vance AFB. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.          Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to 71st Operations Support
Squadron, Airfield Operations Flight (71 OSS/OSA) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation
for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the Vance AFB
Publications and Forms Manager. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF Flight
Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the form.)
1. References: AFJI 24-114, Air Force Small Terminal Operations (Non-Military Airlift
Command, MAC); DoD 4515.13R, Air Transportation Eligibility; DoD 4500.9R, Part I,
Passenger Movement; AFI 24-101, Passenger Movement; AMCI 24-101 Volume 14, Military
Airlift Passenger Service; AMCI 24-101 Volume 15, Military Baggage Service; AMCI 24-101
Volume 24, AMC Terminal Force Protection; Vance AFB Plan 502, Antihijacking and
Prevention of Unauthorized Aircraft Movement.
2. Security:
   2.1. Policy: Everyone involved in the movement of passengers and cargo on DoD-owned or
   controlled aircraft has the responsibility to prevent the possible hijacking or sabotage of an
   aircraft. Passenger processing and cargo handling personnel must be alert to detect any
   unusual conduct of persons entering the passenger processing area or any suspicious items
   offered for air shipment.
 2                                                    VANCEAFBI24-101 1 DECEMBER 2011


     2.2. Security of Aircraft: Passenger processing personnel, local security officials, and
     aircrew members share the responsibility for security of aircraft while they are on the ground.
     Close communications must be maintained with airfield management and security officials
     concerning any potential threat to aircraft. Unauthorized access to or around aircraft by
     personnel not directly involved with ground servicing operations must be prevented.
     2.3. Air Terminal Security: Vance AFB does not have an air terminal; however, security
     measures must be enforced to prevent any unauthorized access to areas designated for
     passenger processing on a “per case” basis.
3. Passengers: All passengers traveling on DoD-owned or controlled aircraft must present
proper travel documentation prior to acceptance into the airlift system. DoD 4515.13-R, Air
Transportation Eligibility, is the governing directive for travel eligibility.
     3.1. Definitions:
        3.1.1. Space Required Travel: Personnel traveling on official travel orders as indicated
        in DoD 4515.13-R.
            3.1.1.1. All Space Required passengers will have in their possession a valid
            identification card and competent travel orders with unique control number.
        3.1.2. Space Available Travel: Space Available passengers are those travelers who are
        allowed to occupy DoD aircraft seats at no cost to the traveler, providing seats are surplus
        after all space required passengers have been accommodated. Space available travel is
        not available on a scheduled routine basis at Vance AFB.
        3.1.3. Direct to Airlift Passengers: IAW HQ AETC/LG memorandum, Interim AETC
        Passenger Processing Policy, 10 Feb 2004, persons accompanying an exempted
        passenger (see para 3.6) may bypass baggage inspections and passenger screening if
        vouched for by the exempt person.
        3.1.4. Passenger Travel Representatives: Air passenger travel representatives at Vance
        are the Transportation Manager (Contractor Transportation) and the Vehicle Operations
        and Maintenance Supervisor. These individuals can be reached during normal duty hours
        at extensions 7035 and 7034 respectively. After normal duty hours, representatives can
        be reached by contacting the Vance AFB Command Post at extension 7384.
     3.2. Travel Restrictions:
        3.2.1. Pregnant women up to the 34th week of pregnancy are accepted for air travel
        without medical statement. Pregnant women beyond the 34th week of gestation may not
        travel unless in a patient status on medical evacuation missions.
        3.2.2. Women who are 6 or more weeks post partum and infants 6 or more weeks old are
        transported as passengers unless medically contradicted. Infants under 6 weeks and
        women who are less than 6 weeks post partum may be transported if they are certified
        medically fit to travel by a medical officer or civilian physician.
        3.2.3. A child under 12 years old will not be accepted for air transportation unless
        accompanied by a parent or a responsible adult who is designated by the parent or other
        competent authority.
VANCEAFBI24-101 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                  3


     3.2.4. Hazardous Materials. Federal law forbids transporting hazardous materials aboard
     aircraft in checked or carry-on baggage. Hazardous materials include: explosives,
     compressed gases flammable liquids and solids, oxidizers, poisons, corrosives, and
     radioactive materials. Passengers who present baggage that is leaking, emitting strong
     odors, or has abnormal moisture or condensation on the outside should be questioned.
     Unacceptable items must be removed from the passenger’s baggage. The following
     examples are articles that may be contained in passenger baggage:
         3.2.4.1. Perfumes or colognes transported as carry-on or checked baggage. Checked
         baggage may not contain open containers of alcoholic beverages. Passengers on
         USAF aircraft may transport unopened containers of alcoholic beverages in
         reasonable quantities, as long as that transportation does not violate government
         regulations.
         3.2.4.2. Medical or toilet articles which are necessary or appropriate for a journey.
         3.2.4.3. Small carbon dioxide gas cylinders worn by passengers for operation of
         mechanical limbs.
         3.2.4.4. Personal smoking materials intended for use by individuals when carried on
         their person. However, lighter fuel, refills, and lighters containing unabsorbed liquid
         fuel are prohibited.
         3.2.4.5. Flammables normally will not be shipped on passenger aircraft; however,
         small items such as hair spray in containers that will not crack, rupture, or leak at the
         cap during transportation may be included in the checked baggage shipment.
  3.3. Arrival Procedures:
     3.3.1. Airfield management and/or protocol will contact the air passenger representatives
     and notify them of an arriving passenger-carrying aircraft. Air passenger representatives
     will meet all passenger-carrying flights and:
         3.3.1.1. Advise passengers of flight line safety procedures, photography restrictions,
         etc., as appropriate.
         3.3.1.2. Arrange for off-loading of baggage.
         3.3.1.3. Ensure all customs and immigration requirements are accomplished.
         3.3.1.4. Assist passengers in obtaining onward or return transportation, billeting, and
         ground transportation as required.
         3.3.1.5. Assist special categories of passengers such as handicapped personnel by
         off-loading them first and expediting their baggage.
     3.3.2. Arrival of Distinguished Visitors (DVs): Protocol will coordinate an arrival party
     to meet any flight with DV passengers on board.
  3.4. Departure Procedures: All air passengers will be properly manifested before departure.
     3.4.1. Manifesting Policy: The passenger manifest is a listing of all passengers aboard
     an aircraft and will be accomplished when a passenger is selected for movement. The
     manifesting agency will prepare a manifest IAW DoD 4500.9R, Defense Travel
4                                                   VANCEAFBI24-101 1 DECEMBER 2011


       Regulation (DTR), for all aircraft operated by the DoD. Manifests may be computer
       generated or prepared on a DD Form 2131.
           3.4.1.1. Air passenger representatives or the protocol office will normally prepare
           passenger manifests.
       3.4.2. The following information will be provided to the air passenger representatives so
       that passenger manifests can be prepared. (Note: For DV flights, protocol may prepare
       passenger manifests and provide a copy to the air passenger representatives.)
           3.4.2.1. One copy each of travel orders (front and back) for each traveler.
           3.4.2.2. Provide all pertinent flight information, including departure date, time, and
           destination.
           3.4.2.3. Number of bags and weight per piece (include both checked bags and carry-
           ons). (Note: for small transport aircraft such as C-12 or C-21, passengers are only
           authorized one piece of checked baggage not to exceed 30 pounds.)
           3.4.2.4. All travelers, except exempt passengers (see para 3.6), will process in person
           at a location designated by the air passenger representatives.
       3.4.3. Intoxicating Beverages and Narcotics: Individuals under the influence of
       intoxicating beverages or narcotics will not be permitted aboard DoD owned or
       controlled aircraft. Exception: Patient travelers who are under medical supervision.
    3.5. Antihijacking Procedures: Personnel involved in all phases of passenger processing
    operations must be keenly aware of any unusual conduct of persons within the processing
    facility and alert to the possibility of concealed explosive devices or weapons.
       3.5.1. Antihijacking Inspection: An antihijacking inspection will be accomplished by the
       passenger travel representative prior to passenger loading. The inspection will include
       the screening of hand carried articles, metal detecting, and annotating the passenger
       manifest. When metal detection devices are used, passengers will be advised to take all
       metallic objects out of their pockets before screening. If metal detectors are not available
       or are inoperable, passengers will submit to a visual check by opening coats, jackets, etc.
       If anything suspicious is noted, passengers will be advised to remove the item for
       inspection. Local security officials will perform all required physical inspections (body
       searches) when circumstances warrant.
       3.5.2. Antihijacking Briefing: The air passenger representative will brief all passengers
       on antihijacking procedures. (See attachment 1.)
       3.5.3. After completion of the antihijacking inspection and briefing, passengers selected
       and manifested for departing flights will remain in a sterile area until boarding the
       aircraft.
    3.6. Exempt Personnel: IAW HQ AETC/LG memorandum, Interim AETC Passenger
    Processing Policy, 10 Feb 2004, exempted passengers, defined as wing commanders, general
    officers, and civilian equivalents (SES), may bypass antihijacking measures and proceed
    directly to the aircraft if he/she has ensured that the persons making his/her travel
    arrangements have provided manifest information to the passenger-handling agency prior to
    aircraft departure. Additionally, an exempted traveler may be allowed to vouch for his/her
VANCEAFBI24-101 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                                  5


  accompanying party to exempt processing by including the names of the party on the
  passenger manifest. The senior traveler is accountable to ensure those persons pose no
  hijacking threat and carry no prohibited items. Passengers exempted from antihijacking
  procedures are not exempted from being properly manifested.
  3.7. Boarding Procedures:
     3.7.1. Vehicle Operations will ensure all checked baggage is transported to the aircraft.
     3.7.2. Once processed, Vehicle Operations will transport all passengers to the aircraft.
     3.7.3. Air passenger representatives will escort passengers to the aircraft and review the
     passenger manifest with the aircrew prior to loading passengers. The original copy of the
     manifest will be given to the aircrew.
     3.7.4. The aircrew has the authority to refuse passengers whose physical condition poses
     a safety hazard to themselves or others and also undesirable passengers (intoxicated, bad
     odor, unacceptable dress, etc.), if necessary.
  3.8. Boarding Inspection of Passengers’ Hand Carried Baggage and Carry-on Items:
     3.8.1. Air passenger representatives will inspect all hand carried articles for firearms,
     knives, explosives, components of explosives, or any device which may be used to
     attempt an aircraft hijacking. Personnel will conduct these searches thoroughly, but with
     minimum inconvenience to the passengers. Prior to performing the boarding inspection,
     passengers will be informed that this inspection is conducted for their own personal
     safety and all weapons must be declared. Passengers are required to open their own items
     for inspection. All firearms, ammunition, knives or scissors must be placed in checked
     baggage or turned over to the aircraft commander or designated representative.
     Passengers are prohibited from carrying these articles on their persons without proper
     authority.
  3.9. Baggage Allowance: Passengers processing for travel are authorized to check two
  pieces of baggage not to exceed 70 pounds each (140 pounds total) and 62 linear inches (the
  sum of the length plus the width plus the height). Single items exceeding 70 pounds and or
  62 linear inches will be counted as two pieces and therefore, fulfill the allowance for a
  passenger.
     3.9.1. Passengers processing for travel on administrative support airlift (C-21, C-12) will
     be limited to 30 pounds total baggage weight.
  3.10. Baggage Processing: All passengers accepted for travel will have on each piece of
  checked baggage DD Form 1839, Baggage Identification Tag, or commercial equivalent, and
  AF Form 94, Baggage Claim Tag, showing the origin and destination of the passenger. AF
  Form 94 will be annotated with the passenger’s manifest line number and number of pieces
  of baggage (i.e., #98, 1 of 3).
     3.10.1. Inspected baggage will be placed in a secure area away from passengers prior to
     loading. Baggage accessed by passengers after initial inspection will be inspected again.
     3.10.2. Air passenger representatives may ask passengers to take items out of purses or
     bags for ease of inspecting.
 6                                                    VANCEAFBI24-101 1 DECEMBER 2011


     3.11. Baggage Irregularities:
        3.11.1. Lost Baggage: If baggage is reported lost by a passenger, the aircraft will be
        checked if it has not departed. The aircraft originating or enroute station may be
        contacted by telephone, message, etc., to request them to search for the baggage. If the
        baggage is not recovered, the passenger will be advised to file a claim with the nearest
        military claims office.
        3.11.2. Damaged or Pilfered Baggage: Passengers reporting damage to their baggage
        will be advised to file a claim at the nearest military claims office. Security police will be
        notified if passengers report their baggage has been pilfered.
        3.11.3. Found Baggage.
            3.11.3.1. If the owner is located, he/she will be notified that his/her bag has been
            found. The owner must present proper personal identification to claim the bag.
            3.11.3.2. If the owner cannot be located locally, the originating or enroute stations
            will be advised of the found baggage. If DoD airlift is not available to forward the
            baggage to the required destination, the baggage will be turned over to the nearest
            Traffic Management Office (TMO) for shipment. TMO will ship luggage via
            commercial mode using local transportation funds.
4. Limiting Factors:
     4.1. Vance AFB does not have an air passenger terminal or a dedicated passenger processing
     area. Therefore, air passenger representatives will designate the area where passengers will
     be processed based on the number of passengers and scope of processing and baggage
     handling necessary.
        4.1.1. There is no reception area for inbound passengers available due to lack of air
        passenger terminal facilities.
        4.1.2. Security Forces will be requested by the passenger processing representative, as
        necessary, to ensure passengers and baggage are secure until aircraft loading and
        boarding are accomplished.
     4.2. Vance AFB does not have baggage weight scales or X-ray equipment available.
        4.2.1. Baggage weights will be assumed to be the maximum allowable 70 lbs (30 lbs
        maximum for C-12 and C-21 aircraft) for manifesting and aircraft loading purposes. (See
        paras 3.9 and 3.9.1 for baggage allowances.)
        4.2.2. Lack of X-ray equipment necessitates physical inspection of all baggage prior to
        aircraft loading.
     4.3. Explosive Detection Equipment. Vance AFB does not have explosive detection
     equipment available for screening baggage. Physical inspection of bags is the only defense
     against the possibility of explosive devices hidden in checked or carry-on baggage.
VANCEAFBI24-101 1 DECEMBER 2011                                                    7


5. Forms Adopted: DD Form 1839, Baggage Identification Tag, AF Form 94, Baggage Claim
TagM, AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                       JOSEPH F. CHENEY, Colonel, USAF
                                       Commander, 71st Mission Support Group
 8                                                      VANCEAFBI24-101 1 DECEMBER 2011


                                             Attachment 1
            GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Passenger Antihijacking Briefing
Good morning or afternoon, my name is _______________________ and I will be giving you an
antihijacking briefing. Commanders at all levels have been tasked to ensure preventative
measures are taken to minimize access to aircraft by potential hijackers. For this reason, all
passengers boarding DoD military aircraft are briefed on what is considered a federal crime and
what are considered prohibited items aboard an aircraft. The following is information you need
to know:
     1. It is a federal crime to:
        a. Carry concealed weapons aboard aircraft.
        b. Interfere with flight crews (including flight attendants).
        c. Transport explosives aboard aircraft.
        d. Attempt to seize or actually seize aircraft by threats, force, or violence.
        e. Possess or use narcotic drugs, including marijuana, aboard the aircraft.
        f. Convey false information concerning the above criminal acts.
2. Prohibited items include:
        a. Black powder, blasting caps, detonating fuses, dynamite, explosive projectiles, flares
        unauthorized ammunition, or any other explosive. Also included are visible refillable fuel
        and butane lighters.
        b. All caustic or corrosive materials must be transported IAW provisions of TM 38-250,
        AFR 71-4, CFR 49, and the International Air Transport Association’s Dangerous Goods
        Regulations.
        c. Personal knives, scissors, or any objects with blades over 3 inches may not be carried in
        the passenger compartment of the aircraft. Planeload commanders will secure all oversize
        knives before boarding the aircraft.
3. Air Force policy is to prevent entry of unauthorized weapons or explosives into the Defense
Transportation System. Personnel involved in all phases of passenger processing operations will
be keenly aware of any unusual conduct of persons within the processing facility and alert to the
possibility of concealed explosive devices or weapons. Unattended baggage found in the facility
will be reported to the Security Forces. A concerted effort to prevent the hijacking of DoD
military or military contractor aircraft will be made by detecting potential hijackers before they
board the aircraft.
Thank you, and have a nice flight.
