BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                VANCE AFB INSTRUCTION 40-101
71ST FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                                              2 AUGUST 2011

                                                                            Medical Command

                                                     GUIDELINES FOR PUBLIC ACCESS
                                                  DEFIBRILLATION (PAD) PROGRAMS IN
                                                               FEDERAL FACILITIES

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               https://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 MDOS/SGOMW                                                   Certified by: 71 MDG/CC
                                                                    (Colonel Douglas B. Curry)
Supersedes:   VAFBI40-101, 3 Nov 09                                                   Pages: 10


This instruction outlines responsibilities and procedures for managing the implementation of the
provisions for the "Guidelines for Public Access Defibrillation (PAD) Programs in Federal
Facilities." This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the
Privacy Act of 1974. This is authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55, Medical and Dental Care and 10
U.S.C. 8013, Powers and Duties of the Secretary of the Air Force. Systems of Records Notice
F044 SG E, Medical Records System, applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air Force Records Disposition
Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rds_series.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the Vance AFB Publications and Forms Manager. (AF
Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that
publication for guidance on filling out the form.)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updated protocol. Attached Daily AED Checklist, PAD Site Coordinator Report, and Location
of Public Access Defibrillators list. Added PAD Site Coordinator responsibilities. Changed
typographical errors not corrected in last rendition. Changed the word monthly to daily in para
3.4.2 at the request of 71 MDG/CC.
 2                                                     VANCEAFBI40-101 2 AUGUST 2011


1. PURPOSE: This Vance Instruction provides guidance for the deployment of Automated
External Defibrillators (AED) within buildings at Vance AFB IAW Guidelines for Public Access
Defibrillation Programs in Federal Facilities, January 18, 2001, Department of Health and
Human Services, Federal Register 66Fed.Reg.28495 (2001) and Presidential Memorandum,
19 May 2000 (http://www.foh.dhhs.gov/public/WhatWeDo/AED/HHSAED.ASP). The AED
is to be used for an emergency response to Sudden Cardiac Arrest (SCA), as a means to decrease
premature mortality. This instruction describes the roles and responsibilities deemed necessary
to ensure the broadest training and application of the AED. The scope of training and use is
applicable to all federal employees and active duty personnel at Vance AFB.
2. TERMS AND ABBREVIATIONS:
     2.1. Automated External Defibrillator (AED) – a machine that can detect cardiac arrest and
     automatically deliver an electric shock to restart the heart.
     2.2. Public Access Defibrillator Program (PAD) – the PAD program is intended to provide
     critical use of the AED prior to advanced medical care arriving at the scene.
     2.3. Defense Medical Logistics Standard Support (DMLSS) – Computer system used by
     Medical Logistics to order AEDs, supplies and track medical equipment inventories.
     2.4. Traumatic Stress Response Team (TSRT) – TSRT is a comprehensive system of crisis
     intervention designed to assist individuals and groups affected by traumatic events.
     2.5. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation – CPR.
     2.6. Basic Life Support – BLS. Includes Heartsaver AED CPR and Healthcare Provider
     CPR.
     2.7. Emergency Medical Services (also known as dialing 911) – EMS.
3. Roles and Responsibilities:
     3.1. The Commander of the 71st Flying Training Wing (71 FTW): The 71 FTW has overall
     responsibility for the PAD program. The 71 FTW/CC directs the Commander of the 71st
     Medical Group (71 MDG) to ensure proper medical objectives are maintained for the PAD
     program.
     3.2. Medical Group Commander: The 71 MDG/CC is responsible to the 71 FTW/CC for
     implementation of the PAD program. The 71 MDG/CC will ensure all medical objectives
     are maintained and provide professional guidance on program administration. The 71
     MDG/CC will appoint in writing a Medical Director and Program Coordinator for the PAD
     program.
     3.3. Medical Director: The PAD Medical Director will be a physician, proficient in
     emergency medical services protocols, CPR, and the use of AEDs in accordance with Section
     5A of Title 76 of Oklahoma Statutes. The PAD Medical Director is responsible for
     providing oversight for training, emergency medical services coordination, protocols,
     standing orders, and formulation of AED deployment strategies. The PAD Medical Director
     will develop quality assurance guidelines for use of the AED and will review or have a
     designated representative, review all event summary sheets within 5 days of AED use.
     3.4. PAD Program Coordinator: The PAD Program Coordinator, at a minimum, will be a
     BLS Training Site Faculty or BLS Program Director. The PAD Program Coordinator will
VANCEAFBI40-101 2 AUGUST 2011                                                                  3


  provide recommendations to and coordinate with squadron commanders or other supervisory
  personnel in the selection of individuals to serve as Pad Site Coordinators. The Program
  Coordinator will serve as an advisor to the site coordinators and help them establish site
  specific response instructions.
  3.5. PAD Site Coordinators: The PAD Site Coordinators will, at a minimum, be trained in
  Heartsaver AED and be appointed in writing by the squadron commander or supervisor
  responsible for the area in which the AED will be located. A copy of the appointment letter
  will be forwarded to the BLS Program Director. Faxed copies are accepted at 213-6175,
  scanned copies are also acceptable.
     3.5.1. Establish written procedures for site-specific AED response. This written
     procedure may be in the form of a checklist or a site-specific operating instruction. The
     PAD Program Coordinator can help schedule CPR and annual AED training, establish
     response checklists, response plans and exercise criteria/oversight upon request.
     3.5.2. Inspect AEDs located within their area of responsibility daily during regular duty
     days and will ensure all required inspections and maintenance actions are accomplished
     in accordance with the manufacturer’s manual. Inspections will be documented on the
     AED Daily Checklist located with the unit (Attachment 1).
     3.5.3. Coordinate training for the unit's Lay Rescuers/Responders (LRRs). LRRs are, at
     a minimum, trained in AED use, with recommendation of CPR training through a
     nationally recognized organization.
4. TRAINING AND EXERCISE PROCEDURES:
  4.1. The unit PAD Site Coordinator should coordinate with work center supervisors to
  ensure that a sufficient number of individuals are selected and trained per shift so responders
  are readily available at the AED location.
  4.2. PAD Site Coordinators will instruct work center personnel on their duties and make
  periodic inspections to ensure procedures are implemented and that individuals are
  complying with the intent of this instruction.
  4.3. PAD Site Coordinators should periodically conduct mock response events to review
  emergency procedures with work center personnel. A CPR Instructor will oversee the
  exercise to help enhance the training and confidence of the unit responders. The PAD
  Program Coordinator is available to advise, help with response checklists/plans and to
  oversee exercises.
5. AED AND SUPPLY PROCUREMENT:
  5.1. PAD Site Coordinators will contact their unit supply custodian when replacement of
  required supplies is needed. AED supplies and/or new or replacement AEDs will be ordered
  through the 71 MDSS Medical Logistics (213-7676) through an account created and funded
  by the respective unit.
     5.1.1. The PAD Site Coordinator will work with the Medical Logistics Flight to create a
     Medical Equipment Management Office (MEMO) account. MEMO will assign an index
     number to the AED, and the AED coordinator will be responsible for working with the 71
     MDG MEMO officer to ensure accountability of the AED during the annual inventory.
 4                                                      VANCEAFBI40-101 2 AUGUST 2011


        AEDs will not be placed on the base supply inventory. AEDs will be tracked as medical
        equipment only on      71 MDG Custodian Receipt Locators (CRL) list.
        5.1.2. Based on work orders generated by Medical Logistics, the 71 MDG Biomedical
        Equipment Maintenance Office will conduct semiannual preventive maintenance (PM)
        inspections and annual equipment calibrations. The biomedical equipment maintenance
        technician (BMET) will notify the PAD Site Coordinator when a work order is generated
        and will complete that order within one month.
6. EVENT PROCEDURES:
     6.1. Once an AED has been used in an emergency situation, the PAD Site
     Coordinator/designee will immediately complete the PAD Site Coordinator Report
     (Attachment 2) and forward it to the Medical Director within 24 hours of a normal duty day
     following the event. A loaner AED may be requested to replace the area’s unit while
     maintenance is performed.
        6.1.1. After use of the AED, the PAD Site Coordinator will bring the device to the 71
        MDG Biomedical Equipment Maintenance Office for download of the Code Summary
        Data. This will be critically reviewed by the Medical Director. The BMET will visually
        inspect the device for damage and perform an operational check. After successfully
        downloading the summary, the AED will be given back to the unit.
        6.1.2. At no time will the device be taken from the organization unless BMET
        maintenance is required.
     6.2. The PAD Site Coordinator will call the Mental Health Clinic to request traumatic stress
     debriefing sessions be offered to all individuals involved in the emergency situation.
7. AED Selection: (AETC purchased AEDs for use at Vance AFB. Future purchases should
conform to the same guidelines as those used by AETC, outlined below.)
     7.1. There are various companies that offer different types of AEDs, each with a wide range
     in capabilities as well as price. AETC designated and purchased a single model for use on
     each installation. This act makes it simple to familiarize responders with AED operation and
     maintenance.
        7.1.1. Selection assured the AED unit had components such as a clear voice, clear
        written text, and illuminated buttons.
        7.1.2. Selection assured the AED unit had an easily accessible and identifiable on/off
        switch.
8. AED Locations and Installation: PAD AEDs are located in various areas of the base
(Attachment 3). This list is not all inclusive, as new units may be added. In the event a new
AED location is added, the 71 MDG Biomedical Equipment Maintenance Office will update the
Location of Public Access Defibrillators list. Know the nearest location of an AED. If the AED
is located in another building within a short distance, a runner may be sent to retrieve the AED.
If the closest AED is more than three minutes away, do not send a runner to get the AED. The
Base Fire Department or EMS can respond within a short period of time in most instances.
VANCEAFBI40-101 2 AUGUST 2011                                                                  5


   8.1. In order to achieve complete area coverage within a building, an AED should be
   positioned no more than one minute's travel time (one way) from any given point within the
   building.
   8.2. Optimal response time from the identification of a person "down" to the arrival of AED
   on-scene is three minutes or less.
   8.3. AED accessory kits will be packed with the AED, so the responder will not lose time
   deciding what to take to the emergency. These kits will include nitrile gloves, biohazard bag,
   disposable towel, disposable razor, trauma scissors, and a barrier mask.
9. Adopted Forms: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                            RUSSELL L. MACK, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
 6                                                         VANCEAFBI40-101 2 AUGUST 2011


                                            Attachment 1
                   AUTOMATED EXTERNAL DEFIBRILLATOR (AED)

                                         Daily Checklist
Instructions: Inspect your AED for any external damage. Verify that you have the following accessories:
nitrile gloves, biohazard bag, disposable towel, disposable razor, trauma scissors and a barrier mask.
Verify that you see an OK on the handle of your AED. If you see anything other than OK or you need to
replenish your accessories, call Medical Equipment Repair at 213-7716 or 213-6774. Below, write in the
month and year, print your name and put a check mark in the OK indicator, external damage and
accessories boxes after inspection.
                                                       OK
     Month/Yr.              Print Name                 Indicator     External Damage   Accessories
     Day 1
     Day 2
     Day 3
     Day 4
     Day 5
     Day 6
     Day 7
     Day 8
     Day 9
     Day 10
     Day 11
     Day 12
     Day 13
     Day 14
     Day 15
     Day 16
     Day 17
     Day 18
     Day 19
     Day 20
     Day 21
     Day 22
     Day 23
     Day 24
     Day 25
     Day 26
     Day 27
     Day 28
     Day 29
     Day 30
VANCEAFBI40-101 2 AUGUST 2011   7


   Day 31
 8                                                                 VANCEAFBI40-101 2 AUGUST 2011


                                                  Attachment 2
                                   PAD SITE COORDINATOR REPORT
Location of events:


Dated of event:                               Time of Event:

Victim’s full name (if known):

Male / Female (circle one) Age                        Last Four of SSN

Assigned unit                                 Branch of Service/Civilian

Date of Birth                                 Phone number (h)                        (w)

Home address

Was the event witnessed or non-witnessed? Witnessed / Non-Witnessed

Name of rescuer(s)/responder(s):




Internal response plan activated? YES/NO              Time activated:

Was 911 called? YES/NO                                Time activated:

Was pulse taken or signs of circulation assessed? YES/NO

Was CPR given before the AED arrived? YES/NO

If yes, name(s) of CPR rescuer(s):




Were shocks given? YES/NO

Total number of shocks

Did victim:

Regain a pulse?                      YES/NO

Resume breathing?                    YES/NO

Regain consciousness?                YES/NO


Was the procedure for transferring patient care to the emergency medical team executed? YES/NO
VANCEAFBI40-101 2 AUGUST 2011                                                           9

Comments:




Any problems encountered?



Print name of person completing form with daytime and nighttime contact phone numbers



FAX SHEET TO “ATTENTION OF 71 MDG/MEDICAL DIRECTOR” AT 213-7063
10                                 VANCEAFBI40-101 2 AUGUST 2011


                    Attachment 3
     LOCATION OF PUBLIC ACCESS DEFIBRILLATORS
