BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         VANCE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
71ST FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)                                             10-200

                                                                           25 FEBRUARY 2014

                                                                                      Operations

                                                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS AND
                                                                        PREPARATION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at http://www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 FTW/XP                                                          Certified by: 71 FTW/XP
                                                                       (Terri L. Schaefer, DAFC)
Supersedes:    VAFBI 10-200, 9 April 2013                                               Pages: 32


This instruction describes the contingency response actions for the 71st Flying Training Wing
(71 FTW). It applies to wing organizations such as staff agencies, squadrons, tenant units, and
contractors. This publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of information protected
by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by Title 10 United States Code 8013, DODI 3001.02, and
Executive Order 9397 (SSN), as amended, Numbering System for Federal Accounts Relating to
Individual Persons, as amended by Executive Order 13478, Amendments to Executive Order
9397 Relating to Federal Agency Use of Social Security Numbers, November 18, 2008. The
applicable Privacy Act SORN F036 AFPC R Air Force Personnel Accountability and
Assessment System (AFPAAS) (May 7, 2009, 74 FR 20935) is available at
http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/component/airforce/F036_AFPC_R.html. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed
of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about
this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
appropriate functional chain of command. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF
Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the form.)
The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
 2                                                                        VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This publication was revised to update emergency notification and accountability procedures,
revises the wing master recall process and unit recall rosters. Other various grammatical changes
made.

       1.     Purpose. ..................................................................................................................    3
       2.     Objective. ...............................................................................................................     3
       3.     Commander’s Senior Staff Composition. ..............................................................                           3
       4.     CAT Composition. .................................................................................................             3
       5.     CAT Appointment. ................................................................................................              4
       6.     CAT Training. ........................................................................................................         4
       7.     Commander’s Senior Staff/CAT Recall/Notification. ...........................................                                  4
       8.     CAT Operations. ....................................................................................................           5
       9.     CAT Event Logs/Software. ....................................................................................                  6
       10.    Classified Briefings. ...............................................................................................          7
       11.    CAT/CP Relocation. ..............................................................................................              8
       12.    Recall/Accountability Procedures. .........................................................................                    8
       13.    Communications Outage (Comm-Out) Recall Procedures. ...................................                                        9
       14.    Severe Weather Procedures. ..................................................................................                  9
       15.    Enid EOC Liaison. .................................................................................................           10
       16.    Operations Security (OPSEC). ...............................................................................                  10
       17.    The Vance AFB Command Net and its Users. ......................................................                               10
       18.    Emergency Mass Notification System (EMNS) Procedures. ................................                                        11
       19.    Supporting Checklist Requirements and Format. ..................................................                              12

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              14

Attachment 2—SAMPLE CAT APPOINTMENT LETTER                                                                                                  16

Attachment 3—RECALL/ACCOUNTABILITY INSTRUCTIONS                                                                                             17

Attachment 4—LOCAL RECALL AND ACCOUNTABILITY DEFINITIONS                                                                                    23

Attachment 5—RECALL/ACCOUNTABILITY OPTIONS                                                                                                  25

Attachment 6—WING MASTER RECALL PLAN                                                                                                        26

Attachment 7—RECALL ROSTER FORMAT                                                                                                           28

Attachment 8—EXAMPLE CHECKLISTS                                                                                                             32
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                3



1. Purpose. The purpose of this instruction is to provide guidance and information to wing
agencies that support contingency operations. This includes the activation and management of
the Commander’s Senior Staff, Crisis Action Team (CAT), recall, accountability, and
Emergency Mass Notification System (EMNS) procedures.
2. Objective. The objective is to ensure an expeditious response to any contingency to save
lives, protect assets, and mitigate risk during contingency situations.
3. Commander’s Senior Staff Composition.
   3.1. Commander’s Senior Staff members assist the commander in decision making and
   response options at the strategic level, traditionally in situations where the CAT and/or EOC
   have not yet been assembled, or in circumstances where a full stand-up of those entities is not
   appropriate. Other members may be recalled at the direction of 71 FTW/CC.
Commander’s Senior Staff
Agency                           Position
71 FTW/CC                        Wing Commander
71 FTW/CV                        Vice Commander
71 FTW/CCC                       Command Chief
71 OG/CC                         Operations Group Commander
71 MSG/CC                        Mission Support Group Commander
71 MDG/CC                        Medical Group Commander
71 FTW/DS                        Director of Staff
Contractor/PM                    Contractor Program Manager


   3.2. Members of the Commander’s Senior Staff listed above will notify the Command Post
   (CP) with availability changes (i.e., leave, TDY, or outside a 2-hour response time during
   non-duty hours) and contact information for the alternate with decision authority. The CP
   may be notified via telephone call or e-mail to 71ftw.cp@vance.af.mil.
   3.3. The Commander’s Senior Staff will assemble in the primary CAT area (Bldg. 500,
   Room 8) unless directed otherwise upon recall.
   3.4. A Commander’s Senior Staff recall will not automatically activate Unit Control Centers
   (UCCs).
4. CAT Composition.
   4.1. The Vance AFB CAT is composed of representatives from the following agencies:
Crisis Action Team
Agency                           Position
71 FTW/CC                        CAT Director (Wing Commander)
71 FTW/CV                        CAT Director (Vice Commander)
71 FTW/CCC                       Command Chief
71 OG/CC                         Operations Group Commander
71 MSG/CC                        Mission Support Group Commander
71 MDG/CC                        Medical Group Commander
71 FTW/DS                        CAT Manager (Director of Staff)
Contractor/PM                    Contractor Program Manager
71 FTW/CCE                       CAT Executive Officer
 4                                                    VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


71 FTW/PA                         Public Affairs
71 FTW/CP                         Command Post
71 FTW/HC                         Chaplain
71 FTW/JA                         Staff Judge Advocate
71 FTW/SE                         Safety
71 CPTS                           Comptroller Squadron
71 FSS                            Force Support Squadron
71 LRS                            Logistics Readiness Squadron
71 SFS                            Security Forces Squadron
71 SFS/SFO                        Wing Antiterrorism Officer
AFOSI/Detachment 438              AF Office of Special Investigations


     4.2. The primary CAT area is located in Bldg. 500, Room 8. The alternate CAT area is
     located in Bldg. 672, Room 243.
     4.3. The 71 FTW/DS will fill the CAT Manager position. The Director, Wing Plans and
     Programs (71 FTW/XP) will act as the Alternate CAT Manager.
     4.4. The wing commander’s executive staff (or designated representative) will fill the CAT
     Executive Officer position.
5. CAT Appointment.
     5.1. Each CAT agency will appoint at least one primary and one alternate member using the
     appointment letter shown in Attachment 2. To ensure sufficient qualified personnel are
     available to support continuous 24-hour operations, additional members may be assigned.
        5.1.1. Only those personnel who have a recurring need to enter the CP controlled area
        will be added to the Entry Authority List (EAL). The “Reason” column of the
        appointment letter should reflect the recurring needs as defined by the CP (CAT Position
        or SORTS with Proper Clearance, Need to Know and Non-Disclosure Agreement).
     5.2. All CAT members must possess, at a minimum, a current SECRET security clearance.
     5.3. Each unit should ensure their assigned members participate in at least one real-world or
     exercise CAT activation annually to maintain their currency in response operations.
6. CAT Training.
     6.1. In accordance with Table 6.1, AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management
     Program Planning and Operations, CAT members will complete the Air Force Emergency
     Response Operations (AERO) Command and Control Course and follow-on local procedures
     training.
     6.2. CAT training requirements are tracked by 71 FTW/XP.
7. Commander’s Senior Staff/CAT Recall/Notification. When directed by the 71 FTW/CC,
the CP will initiate the recall of the Commander’s Senior Staff and/or CAT.
     7.1. Notification for recalls is via Land Mobile Radio (LMR), commander’s duty cell phone,
     the Emergency Mass Notification System (EMNS), or other available means. The EMNS
     consists of the Giant Voice, the AtHoc Telephone Alerting System (TAS), and the AtHoc
     Network Alerting System (NAS).
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                              5


   7.2. Upon notification of a CAT recall, members will report to the designated location
   ASAP. Time requirements are within 30 minutes during duty hours or 2 hours for non-duty
   hour recalls, or at the directed time. Members who cannot arrive within the above time
   constraints will call the CAT Executive Officer at (580) 213-5117 who will alert the CAT
   Manager on their status. As a last resort, members may contact the CP with a brief status
   message.
   7.3. When conditions prevent physical response to the CAT location (i.e., lockdown,
   sheltering, shelter-in-place, etc.), members may virtually connect to Defense Connect Online
   (DCO) via any computer or smart phone/tablet to communicate and view the common
   operating picture. The website address for DCO is https://connect.dco.dod.mil/vance.
8. CAT Operations.
   8.1. A CAT recall includes the automatic activation of all Unit Control Centers unless
   directed otherwise at the time of the recall.
   8.2. Upon arrival at the CAT, members will have ID cards (Common Access Card (CAC))
   available to verify identity for entrance and for computer usage. All cell phones, pagers,
   bricks (LMR) and other electronic devices will be surrendered in the entrapment area. The
   CP is responsible for entry to the controlled area.
   8.3. After entering the CAT, members will log on to the computer at their designated station,
   sign in to SharePoint, and review any information projected or available via
   SharePoint/DCO.                (Note:           The       SharePoint        website        is
   https://vance.eis.aetc.af.mil/VOC/default.aspx.)
   8.4. Normal CAT communications will be conducted via telephone, radio, or internet
   connectivity (i.e., e-mail, SharePoint, DCO, etc.). Cell phones are prohibited in the CAT
   controlled area per AFSSI 7702, Emissions Security Countermeasures Reviews, paragraph
   5.4.1.
      8.4.1. Should communications be lost, UCCs will send a runner to pass/receive
      information to/from the CAT. During operations when classified information must be
      passed, the runners must possess at least a SECRET or higher clearance and have signed
      a Standard Form (SF) 312, Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement (NDA). If
      the contractor is unable to provide a runner with a SECRET or higher clearance, the
      program manager must coordinate available runner support with 71 FTW/CC as
      appropriate.
   8.5. Though entry to the CP/CAT area is controlled only by CP personnel, all CAT members
   may serve as escorts for visitors. When a classified mode is anticipated, the visitor must
   have at least a SECRET or higher clearance and a need to know. The CP controller will
   verify the visitor’s identity against the EAL prior to admitting them into the CP/CAT area.
   CAT members will not escort anyone they do not personally recognize. All visitors will be
   signed in by the CP controller on the Visitor Register Log, AF IMT 1109, sign a Non-
   Disclosure Agreement, wear a visitor’s badge while in the controlled area, and stay within
   visual sight of their escort, who will assume responsibility for their visitor, at all times.
   8.6. Once the majority of the members are present, or when deemed ready, the CAT
   Director/Manager (and others depending on the situation), will brief the details of the
 6                                                  VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


     situation. After the briefing, each CAT member will contact their UCC and request or give
     additional information as required. Each CAT member will ensure their UCCs are briefed on
     the current situation at all times.
     8.7. The 71 CS will provide a technician for computer support to the CAT each time it is
     activated.
     8.8. The master checklists for emergency response operations are written by functional area
     experts (71 LRS/CEX, 71 FTW/XP, the Wing Anti-Terrorism Officer, etc.). Each checklist
     will include the OPR and current as-of date. Any suggested changes will be coordinated
     through 71 FTW/XP. While there are currently no classified plans, nor checklists written
     in support of classified plans, should that change, those documents must be marked, stored,
     and reviewed IAW AFI 31-401, Information Security Program Management.
     8.9. While there are currently no classified plans, should that change, access to classified
     plans will be coordinated with 71 FTW/XP. All CAT members who have an appropriate
     security clearance, an NDA on file, and a need to know are allowed access to the classified
     plans.
     8.10. Depending on the situation, the 71 FTW/CC may tailor CAT composition, direct
     termination of the CAT, or activate a watch team. Each CAT representative will update their
     respective UCC on changes in status. At the lowest level of response, the watch team is a
     person or persons designated by the 71 FTW/CC to monitor situations or events that may
     affect normal operations, resources, or facilities. The watch team keeps the chain of
     command informed and may recommend the watch cease or the CAT and/or Emergency
     Operations Center be activated as required by the situation.
     8.11. During extended operations, CAT shift changes and work schedule will be determined
     by 71 FTW/CC.
9. CAT Event Logs/Software. Event logs provide a detailed account throughout a situation to
keep response forces informed. This information may also be used for after-action or lessons
learned reports.
     9.1. When network connectivity allows, all response agencies (CAT, EOC, UCCs, etc.) will
     capture and document significant events using DCO. 71 FTW/CCE will maintain logs until a
     final report is published for the event.
        9.1.1. The DCO page will be managed as follows:
            9.1.1.1. Hosts. DCO sessions will be created and hosted by the EOC Manager
            (primary), CAT Executive Officer, or personnel from 71 LRS/CEX or 71 FTW/XP.
            9.1.1.2. User Access. Each functional representative requesting entry into DCO must
            identify himself/herself with a position and name (CS UCC-TSgt Smith).
            9.1.1.3. Incident Tracker. The Incident Tracker on the DCO page will be used to
            present the major details of the event (i.e., exercise or actual situation, incident
            overview, casualty count, etc.). Information in this section will be input and
            maintained by the EOC Manager (primary) or CAT Executive Officer (alternate when
            EOC is not activated).
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                               7


          9.1.1.4. CAT Master Log. The CAT Master Log on the DCO page will focus on the
          strategic mission of the wing and base awareness information. All suggested inputs
          for the CAT Master Log will be channeled to the CAT Executive Officer. Only the
          CAT Executive Officer will input information into the CAT Master Log.
          9.1.1.5. EOC Master Log. The EOC Master Log on the DCO page will be used to
          document actions in support of the Incident Commander. All suggested inputs for the
          EOC Master Log will be channeled to the EOC Manager. Only the EOC Manager
          will input information into the EOC Master Log.
          9.1.1.6. CAT Directives. Directives are the primary tool to implement actions from
          the CAT at the wing commander’s discretion. Only the CAT Director, CAT
          Manager, or CAT Executive Officer will enter information into the CAT Directives
          section on the DCO page. The CAT Executive Officer will send notification of
          new/changes to existing CAT directives to the CP, EOC, and UCCs via e-mail,
          telephone, or other means. The CP will, in turn, transmit CAT directives to the base
          populace via the EMNS as required/directed by the 71 FTW/CC or designated
          alternate. UCCs will report compliance via the UCC Status tab in SharePoint and
          contact with their CAT representative.
          9.1.1.7. Open/Private Chat. All users may enter information or discussion items in
          the Open/Private Chat section on the DCO page. Unless a specific user is selected
          (private chat) when entering information, the item should be useful information for all
          personnel or a request for information from across the wing.
          9.1.1.8. Maps. The EOC Director is the final release authority for all maps published
          on the DCO page. DCO will be the source for the base Common Operating Picture
          (COP). The maps will be prepared by 71 LRS/CEX personnel who are proficient in
          plotting, plume data, wind/weather effects, etc. If required, maps produced using the
          GEObase ERTOOL will be synchronized with the GEObase server to allow the CAT
          access to updated information outside the DCO system since both the EOC and CAT
          have GEObase ERTOOL capabilities. As soon as an incident is created in the
          GEObase ERTOOL, 71 LRS/CEX will advise the CAT of the incident name to allow
          the CAT to display the current map information through the GEObase software.
       9.1.2. In the event of a loss of internet connectivity, all CAT members will keep a
       detailed events log on an AF Form 4377, Events Log. The logs will be turned in to the
       CAT Executive Officer when the situation is terminated. The executive officer will
       disseminate the logs as necessary (i.e., to the Safety Investigation Board, the Exercise
       Evaluation Team, etc.).
10. Classified Briefings. The CAT Manager will announce when a classified briefing will take
place. The following items apply to each member:
   10.1. All portable radios, cell phones, blackberries, and pagers will be confirmed turned off
   and placed outside of the room. Any wireless devices discovered inside the CP/CAT
   controlled area are subject to confiscation and/or destruction.
   10.2. Any person lacking the appropriate security clearance or not having a need to know
   will be identified and removed from the room. All personnel wearing visitor badges must
 8                                                   VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


     have their security clearance and NDA verified through the Joint Personnel Adjudication
     System (JPAS) prior to being allowed to participate in the classified session.
     10.3. The CAT Manager or CAT Executive Officer will disable all landline access prior to
     the brief.
     10.4. Notes taken during the briefing may be classified working papers IAW AFI 31-401,
     Information Security Program Management, and will be marked and controlled as required.
     10.5. No classified information will be entered into the electronic logs or chat sessions on
     unclassified computer systems.
     10.6. After a classified session, CAT members will not remove any paperwork from the area
     without 71 FTW/XP or the CAT Manager scrutinizing the material for classification and
     approval.
11. CAT/CP Relocation. In the event of a CP relocation or a CP and CAT relocation, 71 SFS
will provide secure transportation if required for the CP duty controller(s) and the 71 FTW/CC or
designated alternate to ensure safe relocation of personnel and classified material. If deemed
necessary, the CP will contact the facility manager for the alternate CP/CAT location (or send a
CP representative if one is available) to ensure operability and access to the area. Upon
accessing the alternate location, the CAT Manager or other CAT representative will turn on and
perform an operations check of all equipment in the area, excluding the SIPRNET.
12. Recall/Accountability Procedures. Detailed procedures for recall/accountability can be
found in Attachment 3 of this instruction. Recall and accountability are two separate events, but
will utilize the same communication process.
     12.1. Each squadron commander/staff agency chief will appoint a unit recall roster monitor
     in writing and provide the appointment letter to 71 FSS/FSOXI. The monitors will ensure
     recall rosters are updated as personnel changes occur and comply with paragraph 13.2 of this
     instruction. Updated rosters will be sent to 71 FSS/FSOXI and 71 LRS/CEX.
        12.1.1. The CP will maintain a binder with printed copies of all recall rosters to ensure
        they are available during periods of degraded communications and/or SharePoint outages.
        12.1.2. Unit recall roster monitors or Unit/Group Control Centers will provide unit
        assigned numbers, to include civilians, non PAE or subcontractors and dependents will be
        provided to the Installation Personnel Readiness function via their organizational email
        address (pru@us.af.mil) NLT the 5th of each month. These numbers will be used as the
        baseline for the SharePoint Accountability Tool.
     12.2. The Contractor PM or designee will coordinate with 71 FTW/CC to determine
     recall/accountability actions for contractor personnel. This decision should be coordinated
     with functional commanders/directors as necessary. Due to contractor confidentiality, the
     actual numbers of contractor personnel assigned, present for duty, etc., are not required to be
     listed on accountability spreadsheets or other tracking documents.
     12.3. All Vance AFB contracting program managers and tenant units (except for the
     CSC/PM who is notified by the CP or 71 FTW/CC) will be notified of a recall/accountability
     by the primary functional organization for which they perform duties or the organization that
     provides surveillance of their work as listed in Attachment 6 (i.e., the FSS UCC will notify
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                              9


   the Commissary and Base Exchange, the WSA/CPTS UCC will notify the Tinker Federal
   Credit Union-Vance Branch, etc.).
   12.4. When directed by the wing commander, each unit commander/staff agency chief will
   recall their essential and non-essential personnel as outlined in Attachment 3 or determined
   by the contingency situation.
13. Communications Outage (Comm-Out) Recall Procedures.
   13.1. The MSG will be responsible for maintaining and initiating the comm-out recall in
   accordance with this instruction. Individual units are not required to develop or maintain
   comm-out recall plans. In the event a comm-out recall is initiated, Vance AFB military and
   civilian personnel may be notified by manpower pool members from any organization of the
   recall or to disseminate information.
   13.2. Unit recall roster monitors will submit recall roster information to the 71 LRS/CEX
   organizational e-mail address (Vance.emergency.management@us.af.mil) not later than
   the fifth duty day of the month complying with the latest recall roster training information
   and this instruction. The format for this information is detailed in Attachment 7 of this
   instruction and may be used to develop unit specific recall rosters. Ensure information
   passed to 71 LRS/CEX includes each individual’s physical home address, and number of
   dependents in the local area. Military-to-military or military-to-DoD civilian will determine
   which organization will track their dependent numbers.
   13.3. At the direction of 71 FTW/CC, the 71 MSG/CC will initiate the comm-out recall for
   the wing. All available manpower resources on Vance AFB will be utilized to conduct the
   recall, regardless of group organization. The primary source of these personnel is on-base
   dormitory residents. The required manpower pool is 50 personnel to cover 25 zones
   surrounding Vance AFB.
   13.4. Personnel contacted to conduct the comm-out recall (manpower pool) will report to the
   base auditorium (or other designated location) at the designated time to receive instructions
   on the recall procedures.
   13.5. Transportation assets (GOVs/U-Drives) will be made available for personnel
   conducting the comm-out recall. If transportation is not available or POVs are required,
   personnel operating POVs may file travel vouchers in accordance with finance regulations.
   13.6. If required (recall as opposed to information dissemination), UCCs will stand up and
   account for personnel, reporting numbers to the Installation Personnel Readiness Office
   (71 FSS/FSOX) by any means available (runner) if normal communications means remain
   inoperable. (Reference Attachment 3 of this instruction.)
   13.7. The 71 FTW/CC or 71 MSG/CC may direct use of other means of getting the
   information to unit personnel. These include, but are not limited to, EMNS, loudspeaker-
   equipped vehicles in the base housing areas, radio and television announcements, use of
   civilian law enforcement, and fire department resources.
14. Severe Weather Procedures. 71 FTW/CP disseminates all weather warnings, watches, and
advisories IAW VAFBI 15-101, Weather Support. The CP or Weather Flight will activate the
base siren for a tornado warning. The siren will continue to sound until a basewide “all clear”
has been directed by the wing commander. When notified by the Weather Flight that the tornado
 10                                                   VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


is no longer a threat, the CP will telephonically notify the base fire department, Security Forces,
CE Control Center, Vance Clinic, and wing leadership of the “initial release for first responders.”
After the first responders have provided their damage assessment and the basewide “all clear” is
given for the general base populace, the CP will re-notify the basewide “all clear” and make an
announcement over the base Giant Voice system and other announcement means as necessary.
See Vance AFB Installation Emergency Management Plan (VAFB IEMP 10-2) for additional
guidance.
15. Enid EOC Liaison. When deemed necessary by the 71 FTW/CC and/or the situation, the
71 FTW/CC will direct a wing representative to report to the Enid/Garfield County EOC to
facilitate communication and coordination between Vance AFB senior leadership and the city of
Enid. The wing representatives should receive a briefing from the CAT/EOC Director before
departing to the Enid EOC. The wing representative will be the 71 LRS/CC, 71 LRS/DO, or
other individual designated by the 71 FTW/CC. When determined necessary, the Enid/Garfield
County Emergency Management Director may be requested to respond to the VAFB EOC to
assist in response operations.
16. Operations Security (OPSEC). Each person involved in a response to a contingency
situation, whether on-scene, in the CAT, EOC, or UCC, will observe OPSEC when passing
information. Names of casualties and personal information (i.e., SSANs, etc.) should not be
broadcast over radios, cell phones or other easily monitored communication devices. Land line
telephones, e-mail, or runner is the preferred method of information relay.
17. The Vance AFB Command Net and its Users.
    17.1. The following commanders and agencies have been authorized use of the Vance AFB
    command net and will use their designated call sign:
Commander/Agency                           Primary                       Alternate
71 FTW/CP                                  Boomer Ops
71 FTW/CC                                  Boomer 1
71 FTW/CV                                  Boomer 2
71 FTW/DS                                                                Boomer 2A
71 OG/CC                                   Boomer 3
71 OG/CD                                                                 Boomer 3A
71 OG/CD                                                                 Boomer 3B
71 MSG/CC                                  Boomer 4
71 MSG/CD                                                                Boomer 4A
71 MDG/CC                                  Boomer 5
71 MDG/CD                                                                Boomer 5A
71 MDG/CD                                                                Boomer 5B
71 FTW/CCC                                 Boomer 6
On-duty Flight Safety Officer              Boomer 7
Supervisor of Flying (SOF)                 Boomer 8
On-call Flight Surgeon                     Boomer 9


    17.2. Each primary party listed in paragraph 17.1. will notify the CP any time he or she will
    be unavailable for contact via the LMR and will provide the CP an alternate means for
    contact. If an alternate has availability for the organization, that information will also be
    provided to the CP.
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                              11


   17.3. Commander Notifications.
      17.3.1. The CP’s primary means for incident notification is the command net, the
      secondary is telephone, and the tertiary is e-mail. The CP will always pass incident
      notifications over the command net (Boomer Net) prior to notifying parties not available
      on the LMR. If a command net party cannot be reached by any means, CP controllers
      will notify the next individual in succession (i.e., 71 FTW/CV for 71 FTW/CC, 71
      FTW/SE for the on-duty Flight Safety Officer, etc.). Command Post controllers will use
      sound judgment and consider OPSEC concerns to determine whether or not specific
      incident information should be passed over the command net. If, in the controller’s
      judgment information should not be passed over the command net, these notifications
      will be made via the secondary or tertiary means.
      17.3.2. The CP will use the following narrative when passing incident notifications over
      the command net:
          17.3.2.1. “(Boomer 3, Boomer 4) or (All commands), this is Boomer Ops (incident
          details).” “(Boomer 3, Boomer 4) or (All commands), respond in sequence.”
              17.3.2.1.1. Command net parties are required to acknowledge all command net
              notifications in which they are specifically addressed.
      17.3.3. The CP notification matrix will be used to determine the proper notifications for
      each incident that occurs. Each commander will review and update the notification
      matrix upon assuming command responsibility and as necessary when notification
      requirements change. The CP notification matrix will not be made an attachment to this
      instruction due to frequent changes made to meet each commanders’ needs.
18. Emergency Mass Notification System (EMNS) Procedures.
   18.1. The Command Post will make mass notifications and recalls of active duty, civil
   service, and select contractor personnel via the EMNS (Giant Voice, TAS, and NAS). It is
   mandatory that all active duty and key/essential civilian personnel assigned to Vance AFB
   add and continually update their contact information utilizing the AtHoc Self Service
   application. Other civil service and contractor employees (not designated as key or essential)
   will add, as a minimum, their work telephone number. Personal contact information for non-
   key or essential civil service and contractor employees may be provided voluntarily. Should
   a contractor employee elect to provide information other than the work number, Vance AFB
   and/or the contractor will not be financially liable for any after duty contact made when the
   system is activated.
      18.1.1. Instructions for entering information into the AtHoc TAS database are located on
      the wing common drive at S:\Public\Emergency Mass Notification System\AtHoc\AtHoc
      TAS\AtHoc TAS Self-Service Instructions for Users.
      18.1.2. The AtHoc NAS/TAS database can be accessed by clicking on the purple globe
      icon in the active icon tray in the lower right corner of the computer desktop. Then click
      on “Access Self Service.” An Internet Explorer window will open containing the
      following tabs: My Info, My Device Info, and Base Specific Info.
          18.1.2.1. The tab labeled “My Info” contains a user’s personal information (name,
          user name, affiliation, organization, etc.).
 12                                                VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


          18.1.2.2. The tab labeled “My Device Info” contains the contact information for a
          user’s telephone. All telephone numbers must be entered as ten digit numbers.
          18.1.2.3. The “Base Specific Info” tab is where the user selects the distribution lists
          to which he/she is a member and updates their off-station status. When a user
          changes the off-station status (“Deployed, TDY, or Leave”), he/she is responsible to
          change it back to “None” upon returning to duty.
   18.2. Unit recall roster monitors will ensure newly assigned personnel update their
   information in the Access Self Service portion of AtHoc. This should be accomplished as
   part of the individuals’ in-processing requirements into the unit.
   18.3. Military Personnel Flight will ensure the base in-processing checklist includes a step to
   access and update the self-service portion of the AtHoc system.
   18.4. Installation Deployment Readiness Cell will:
      18.4.1. Include a note on the deployment out-processing checklist instructing members
      to update their off-station status to “deployed” in the self-service portion of their AtHoc
      system account.
      18.4.2. Include a note on the deployment in-processing checklist instructing members to
      update their off-station status in the self-service portion of their AtHoc system account.
   18.5. Individual responsibilities:
      18.5.1. Ensure the correct “member of” codes are entered into the AtHoc database for all
      your assigned duties. The list of applicable codes can be found at S:\Public\Emergency
      Mass Notification System\AtHoc\AtHoc TAS\TAS Member of Codes.doc.
      18.5.2. Ensure your contact information in the AtHoc databases are correct and current at
      all times.
19. Supporting Checklist Requirements and Format.
   19.1. Emergency action checklists are used by the CAT, EOC, and UCCs to conduct
   response operations. The table of contents on the SharePoint Virtual Operations Center
   (VOC) will serve as the master reference for checklist numbering. Standardized checklist
   numbers increase accuracy across the wing on all tasks assigned by the CAT or EOC and the
   wing commander’s ability to command and control forces.
   19.2. Units tasked as the OPR in wing-level checklists will develop supporting checklists (if
   required) in enough detail to accomplish the assigned task.
   19.3. Unit supporting checklists should follow the wing-level checklist format. When
   possible, tasked units can incorporate their specific details directly into their copy of the
   wing-level checklist. Should a task be repeated in multiple checklists, the unit may develop a
   separate unit-specific checklist using a letter system (i.e., FSS Checklist A, B, C, etc.) to
   support the assigned task. Reference Attachment 8 for example checklists.
   19.4. Wing and unit checklists will include a header containing the current as-of date and
   OPR.
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                      13


                               DARREN V. JAMES, Colonel, USAF
                               Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
 14                                              VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Adopted Forms
AF IMT 1109, Visitor Register Log
AF Form 4377, Events Log
SF 312, Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAFES—Army and Air Forces Exchange Services
AERO—Air Force Emergency Response Operations
AFOSI—Air Force Office of Special Investigations
AFPAAS—Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment
AFRC—Armed Forces Reserve Center
BLSDM—Base Level Service Delivery Model
CAC—Common Access Card
CAT—Crisis Action Team
CFIS—Center for Federal Investigative Services
CP—Command Post
DCO—Defense Connect Online
DeCA—Defense Commissary Agency
DEERS—Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System
EAL—Entry Authority List
EM—Emergency Management
EMNS—Emergency Mass Notification System
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
GS—General Schedule
IPR—Installation Personnel Readiness
JPAS—Joint personnel Adjudication System
LMR—Land Mobile Radio
NAF—Non-Appropriated Funds
NAS—Network Alerting System
NDA—Nondisclosure Agreement
OAPT—Officers Awaiting Pilot Training
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                  15


SIPRNET—Secure Internet Protocol Router Network
TAS—Telephone Alerting System
UCC—Unit Control Center
WG—Wage Grade
 16                                                          VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


                                                   Attachment 2
                              SAMPLE CAT APPOINTMENT LETTER

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

(Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR 71 FTW/XP
               71 FTW/CP

FROM: (Your Agency’s Office Symbol)

SUBJECT: Appointment of Crisis Action Team (CAT) Members and Controlled Area Entry
         Access Letter (EAL)

1. The individuals listed below are CAT members for this organization or hold a position that
requires unescorted entry into the controlled area on a regular basis and possess, as a minimum, a
SECRET clearance:
                                        DUTY                           SECURITY
SSAN           GRADE/NAME               PHONE       HOME PHONE         CLEARANCE             REASON
111-11-1111    Lt Col Don L. Smith      213-7577    (555) 123-1212     Top Secret          CAT (P)
222-22-2222    Maj Mark G. Walker       213-7535    (555) 977-7777       Secret            CAT (A)
333-33-3333    TSgt Robert B. Jones     213-7999    (555) 234-9898     Top Secret          Admin
444-44-4444    SSgt Kelly M. Hall       213-6711    (555) 234-2212       Secret            Comm Support
2. Any questions may be referred to TSgt Jones at 213-XXXX.



                                            (Signature Block of Commander or Staff Agency Chief)


I verify these individuals have the security clearances as stated above. Each individual has signed a
Classified Information Nondisclosure Agreement (Standard Form 312) that is on file in the unit.



                                            (Signature Block of Unit Security Manager)

The information herein is For Official Use Only (FOUO) which must be protected under the Freedom of Information Act
of 1966 and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. Unauthorized disclosure or misuse of this PERSONAL INFORMATION
may result in criminal and/or civil penalties.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                 17


                                            Attachment 3
                       RECALL/ACCOUNTABILITY INSTRUCTIONS

A3.1. For successful execution of recall and personnel accountability, a clear definition to
distinguish the two is necessary:
    A3.1.1. Recall. Implemented when a unit is directed to recall personnel for duty using a
    pyramid notification process/recall rosters. This action may be accomplished when the
    commander determines that all or part of the workforce is needed at their duty stations to
    support a particular contingency/situation.
    A3.1.2. Personnel Accountability. Implemented when an accurate account of personnel
    and their physical location is needed. This action is typically accomplished when a
    contingency or disaster is predicted or has occurred in a certain area. This may include an
    account of family members, contractors, reservists, etc.
A3.2. Recall Types.
    A3.2.1. REPORT-TO-DUTY RECALL:                    All base personnel will report for duty
    immediately.
    A3.2.2. SELECTIVE RECALL: Used when a recall is necessary for selected personnel.
    The commander will determine those personnel required for the situation. The selected
    individuals will report for duty or take actions as directed.
        A3.2.2.1. Mission Essential Personnel.
            A3.2.2.1.1. All active duty military personnel are considered mission essential and
            may be recalled at the discretion of the commander.
            A3.2.2.1.2. Civilian Personnel Definitions. Each federal position is assigned a
            mission code which may be useful in determining if civilians are required to report
            for duty/remain on duty during a Selective Recall. If required, civilians will report as
            directed by the wing, group, or squadron commander:
Civilian Mission Codes
A                      Protection of Life and Property
B                      National Security
C                      Safety of Persons and Protection of Property
D                      Medical/Dental Care
E                      Acquisition and Logistics Support
F                      Education and Training
G                      Legal Activities
H                      Audit and Investigation
I                      Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR)/Non-Appropriated Funds (NAF)
J                      Financial Management
K                      Working Capital
L                      Other
A current list of Mission Code assignments is maintained by the Civilian Personnel Section
(71 FSS/FSMC). Changes or updates to codes based on position requirements should be referred
to 71 FSS/FSMC.
 18                                                 VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


A3.2.2.1.3. Contractor Employees. The Contractor Program Manager (PAE/PM), Deputy
Program Manager, or their designees, must be available for contact during non-duty hours to
coordinate support during a Selective Recall. All other contractor personnel will follow the
direction provided byPAE/PM.
   A3.2.3. INFORMATION DISSEMINATION RECALL:                       Used as a means of passing
   information to base personnel.
A3.3. Accountability Types.
   A3.3.1. TOTAL FORCE ACCOUNTABILITY: Directed by higher headquarters, this
   action is accomplished to accurately account for all personnel regardless of location using a
   pyramid notification process/recall rosters. (Example: The Air Force is accounting for all
   personnel that are in California at this particular time.) Unless directed otherwise, there is no
   requirement to report for duty during a total force accountability check. Affected personnel
   may be required to use the Air Force Personnel Accountability and Assessment System
   (AFPAAS) to account for themselves and their family members (https://afpaas.af.mil).
   (Reference AFI 36-3803, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with Natural Disasters or
   National Emergencies.) The 5 FTS will report to the Air Force Reserve Center (AFRC)
   through the 340 FTG unless directed otherwise.
       A3.3.1.1. Commanding Officer Representatives (CORs) will be trained on their
       responsibilities within AFPAAS by Installation Personnel Readiness Office personnel.
   A3.3.2. LOCAL ACCOUNTABILITY: Directed by the 71 FTW/CC, CAT/EOC Director,
   or unit commanders during a localized contingency/emergency; this action is accomplished
   to accurately account for all personnel regardless of location using a pyramid notification
   process/recall rosters. Unless directed otherwise, there is no requirement to report for duty
   during a local accountability check. (Example: The wing commander is accounting for
   personnel after a tornado.) The 5 FTS will report through the 71 OG via the 71 OSS as
   directed by the 71 FTW/CC or CAT/EOC Director.
       A3.3.2.1. Local accountability may be accomplished using AFPAAS or local means
       depending on the situation or event, at the wing commander’s request.
A3.4. Installation Personnel Readiness (IPR). The OPR for recall/accountability is the
Installation Personnel Readiness Office (71 FSS/FSOX). This office will coordinate with the
CAT FSS member, or as directed by the 71 FSS/CC/DD.
   A3.4.1. Each unit commander is responsible for the recall and personnel accountability
   processes within their unit.
A3.5. Recall/Accountability Process. During a basewide recall/accountability, the Command
Post (CP) will receive the initial notification from HHQ, Wing Commander or Designated
Representative.
   A3.5.1. The recall/accountability start time is the time the CP is contacted to initiate the
   recall or personnel accountability, or the time of the higher headquarters’ message that
   directed the action. Local times will be used.
   A3.5.2. At accountability initiation, the CP will notify the 71 FSS/CC/DD who will assign a
   representative to provide oversight of the entire process. In addition, the CP will notify the
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                              19


   group commanders and 71 FTW/DS of the type of recall or accountability, the official start
   time, and the options/rules that apply. (Reference Attachment 5.)
       A3.5.2.1. Group commanders and 71 FTW/DS will ensure UCC activation and receipt of
       applicable information.
   A3.5.3. Except for an information dissemination recall, UCCs must be activated to conduct
   recall/accountability.
   A3.5.4. The primary means of tracking the data during recall/accountability may be
   AFPAAS or SharePoint. The SharePoint site may be accessed via the internet at
   https://vance.eis.aetc.af.mil/VOC/default.aspx. In the event of a SharePoint malfunction
   UCCs will transmit the data to the IPR via telephone 213-6597 or x7439, DCO Connect, e-
   mail, or runner. Continue to attempt contact until a response is received.
   A3.5.5. When the CAT is active, unit CAT representatives are responsible for the quality of
   UCC data provided to IPR for entry into the SharePoint accountability tool or COR data
   input into AFPAAS. The IPR will provide overall oversight of the numbers provided by
   each UCC until 100% recall/accountability is achieved. If baseline numbers provided at the
   1-hour point are not realistic, the IPR will query the individual UCCs for status updates. The
   baseline numbers are subject to change based on the rules/options selected at accountability
   initiation.
       A3.5.5.1. When 100% contact/accountability has been attained, the IPR must notify the
       CP. The CP will inform the 71 FTW/CC and await further guidance.
   A3.5.6. Group or unit commanders may conduct a recall/accountability of their group/unit at
   any time. The IPR or CP will not be notified unless requested by the initiating commander.
A3.6. Recall/Accountability Options. The options shown in Attachment 5 for personnel
accountability reporting will be annotated on every pyramid notification/recall roster and will
apply as instructed at the time of the recall/accountability event.
A3.7. Unit Control Centers (UCCs).
   A3.7.1. Upon initiation of a recall/accountability, each UCC will provide their current
   baseline numbers for their unit/squadron in accordance with the directed accountability rules
   and provide them to IPR for entry into the SharePoint tool. These numbers will reflect all
   personnel on the unit’s recall roster to include active duty Air Force, Army, Navy, and
   Marines; foreign military, and civilians. This should be accomplished prior to the 1-hour
   report. (See sample spreadsheets at Tables A3.1. and A3.2.).
       A3.7.1.1. When an accountability check includes dependents, it will account for family
       members that may be in the local area of interest and affected by a natural disaster or
       localized contingency/emergency (i.e., dependents of reservists on active duty and
       families of those TDY, deployed, or remote). Dependent accountability will also include
       dependents of civilian personnel as directed by the wing commander.
       A3.7.1.2. Attached/on loan personnel who are assigned in the Base Level Service
       Delivery Model (BLSDM) to one unit, but work primarily in another (i.e., assigned to fly
       with the 25 FTS, but on loan as the MSG executive officer), will be recalled/accounted
       by the on loan unit (i.e., the MSG will account for their executive officer).
 20                                                VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


       A3.7.1.3. Student pilots will be accounted by the 71 STUS.
       A3.7.1.4. Officers       Awaiting     Pilot     Training     (OAPT)       and     Awaiting
       Retention/Reclassification personnel will be accounted by the 71st Student Squadron (71
       STUS). As a courtesy, should the unit where these students/personnel are working at the
       time of the recall/accountability be able to account for them, that unit will notify the 71
       STUS. The 71 STUS is the overall responsible agency for OAPT students and awaiting
       retention/reclassification personnel and will include them in their assigned numbers. The
       unit in which these students/personnel are temporarily working will not include them in
       their numbers even though they may be included on that unit’s recall roster.
       A3.7.1.5. For the 5 FTS, only AFRC personnel that are currently in an “on duty” status
       will be accounted for.
       A3.7.1.6. Individual Mobilization Augmentees (IMAs)/reservists currently on active
       duty at Vance will be accounted by their active duty unit. Unless otherwise directed,
       IMAs who are not in an active duty status will not be contacted.
   A3.7.2. Reporting will be in accordance with the instructions provided at the time of the
   recall/ accountability initiation.
   A3.7.3. UCCs will remain activated during the recall/accountability process until directed by
   the wing commander or designated representative (IPR or CP as a last resort) to stand down/
   deactivate. For example, attainment of 100% accountability by a UCC does not equal an
   automatic deactivation of that UCC. When unsure of the direction/intent, UCCs will query
   their CAT representative, the IPR, or the CP.
   A3.7.4. Upon stand down, notify the POC for the recall/accountability process (i.e., the IPR
   or the CAT representative).
A3.8. Communications Outage. When a communications outage occurs, refer to paragraph 13
of this instruction.
Table A3.1. Sample Electronic SharePoint Accountability Spreadsheet.
The following spreadsheet is located online at https://vance.eis.aetc.af.mil/VOC/default.aspx and
should be used unless otherwise directed. (Requires update)
      VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                               21




      Table A3.2. Sample Manual Accountability Spreadsheet.
      In the event of a power or computer outage, the following manual spreadsheet should be used for
      accountability tracking. Report status to tasking agency as directed.
ACCOUNTABILITY SPREADSHEET
                                                                           Total
Area                                                                       Assigned/   Number
(Unit,                                                                     Baseline    Unaccounted   %
Squadron)   Item                                                           Number      For           Complete
            1. Military Members (AD, ANG, AFRES)
            2. Civilians (All)



            5. Dependents in Local Area of Interest (Mil and Civ)




MISSING
Area
(Unit,                                                                                 Rank/
Squadron)    Member                                                                    Grade
22   VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                  23


                                           Attachment 4
               LOCAL RECALL AND ACCOUNTABILITY DEFINITIONS

AIR FORCE PESONNEL ACCOUNTABILITY AND ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
(AFPAAS): In accordance with AFI 36-3803, Personnel Accountability in Conjunction with
Natural Disasters or National Emergencies, a computer-based system to collect data during
Total Force Accountability.

ASSIGNED PERSONNEL: Using the recall roster, the number of assigned personnel to the
flight/squadron. Adjust the strength by adding anyone who has PCS'd in to the unit but is not yet
reflected on your recall roster.

ATTACHED/ON LOAN PERSONNEL: Except for students, those members who are
assigned in the Base Level Service Delivery Model (BLSDM) to one unit, but work primarily in
another (i.e., assigned to fly with the 25 FTS, but on loan as the MSG executive officer). These
members will be recalled/accounted by the on loan unit (i.e., the MSG will account for their
executive officer). All students (current and OAPT) will be recalled/accounted by the 71 STUS.
Personnel will ensure they are in the correct recall/accountability roster.

AVAILABLE PERSONNEL: Number of assigned personnel minus those who are TDY, on
leave, hospitalized/on quarters, on terminal leave, departed but not yet dropped from rolls,
AWOL, in confinement, etc.

LEAVE: The number of people in the unit who are on leave to include permissive TDY and
special pass. Account for early returnees and those who may have just recently requested a leave
number.

LOCAL AREA OF INTEREST: The geographic area where an emergency situation exists or
disaster has occurred. This area could be limited to a single structure or an area of greater size as
defined by the EOC or CAT.

PERSONNEL ACCOUNTABILITY:

   (a) Total Force Accountability: An accurate accounting of personnel regardless of location
directed by higher headquarters. Using a pyramid notification process/recall rosters, all
personnel are contacted to determine their location. Reference AFI 36-3803, Personnel
Accountability in Conjunction with Natural Disasters or National Emergencies.

   (b) Local Accountability: An accurate accounting of all personnel regardless of location
directed by the 71 FTW/CC, CAT Director, or unit commander. Using a pyramid notification
process/recall rosters, all personnel are contacted to determine their location.

PRESENT FOR DUTY (PFD): An individual who has been recalled and is physically present
at the duty section or recalled and directed when to report for duty at a designated time (in the
case of crew rest, shift workers, or placed on telephone standby).
 24                                             VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


RECALL: The process of using a pyramid notification system to notify personnel.
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                            25


                                       Attachment 5
                       RECALL/ACCOUNTABILITY OPTIONS

 Based on the situation, the wing commander or designated representative will determine
which of the following options apply:
ITEM   ACTION/OPTIONS
1      Military Members
          a. Recall.
          b. Contact for accountability.
          c. Aircrew and air traffic controllers on authorized crew rest, account for
       administratively only. Do not contact.
2      Shift workers:
          a. Recall.
          b. Contact for accountability.
          c. Account for administratively only. Do not contact.
3      Deployed, TDY, on leave, on pass, or hospitalized/on quarters:
          a. Recall.
          b. Contact for accountability.
          c. Account for administratively only. Do not contact.
4      Civilians (GS, WG, NAF, DOD, etc.):
          a. Recall.
          b. Contact for accountability.
          c. Account for administratively only. Do not contact.
5      Dependents in the local area of interest:
          a. Account for, to include family members of those who are TDY, deployed, or on
       remote tour.
          b. No action required.
6      Contractor employees:
          a. Account for through program managers/functional areas.
          b. No action required.
7      Tenant units:
          a. Account for personnel as directed.
          b. No action required.
8      Child Development Center and Youth Center:
          a. Open for members who already use these services.
          b. No action required.
9      Other guidance: To be determined based on the event.
26                  VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


            Attachment 6
     WING MASTER RECALL PLAN
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014   27
 28                                                VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


                                        Attachment 7
                               RECALL ROSTER FORMAT

A7.1. All agencies will:
   A7.1.1. Develop a recall roster for their squadron/agency. The roster will include the wing
   recall and accountability instructions on the reverse side. (A sample follows in this
   attachment.) All units will use the format that meets the monthly requirements for the 71
   LRS/CEX At-Risk Program (follows in this attachment).
   A7.1.2. Ensure recall rosters are updated as personnel changes occur. Submit unit
   information following the sample recall roster format to the 71 LRS/CEX organizational e-
   mail address (Vance.emergency.management@us.af.mil) no later than the fifth duty day of
   the month. Changes to the information will be color coded as shown in paragraph A7.1.3.
   A7.1.3. Color coding key for monthly updates:
Color          Code
GREEN        Identifies an individual that has been gained to the unit and needs to be added to
             the system.
YELLOW       Denotes a change in an individual’s information (e.g., new telephone number,
             address, updated dependent information, etc.).
BLUE         Used to denote personnel that are assigned to a unit but attached to another unit
             to perform primary duties (i.e., a pilot in the 8 FTS who works as the wing
             commander’s executive officer). These personnel will be accounted by the
             organization in which they perform their primary duties. (The wing commander’s
             office will account for their executive officer.)
ORANGE       Used for a unit-to-unit transfer. This applies to personnel who are already in the
             system, were assigned to a new unit to perform primary duties, and must remain
             in the database (e.g., the wing commander’s executive officer who returns to the
             squadron to be a full-time instructor pilot, Permanent Change of Assignment
             (PCA), etc.).
GRAY         Depicts personnel that work in or are attached to a unit that may require
             information from that unit, but are not included in the unit’s force strength
             numbers during a recall (e.g., awaiting pilot training students, etc.).
RED          Identifies personnel who are no longer associated with Vance AFB for
             accountability and recall purposes and may be removed from the system (e.g.,
             PCS, retired, etc.).
All 71 STUS personnel will be accounted for through the 71 STUS processes.


A7.1.4. Dependent information:
        A7.1.4.1. The recall roster will reflect the number of dependents in the local area
        (number only, no names) for each military member. .
   A7.1.5. Each unit recall roster monitor will ensure all personnel on the roster are provided a
   copy and are trained on the procedures/correct use.
Required recall roster format (front side): Requires CEX Update
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                  29


 UCC Team
 Members
                        Squadron                               FIRST SERGEANT


                       Recall Roster

           Last       First                                                            #
 Recall   Name       Name     Grade   Full Address   Duty   Home   Cell   Deployed   Depd's   Shelter
  A                                                                         No         0       No
  B                                                                         No         0       No
  B1                                                                        No         0       No
  B1                                                                        No         0       Yes
  B1                                                                        No         0       No
  B1                                                                        No         0       No
  B1                                                                        No         0       No
  B2                                                                        No         1       No
  B2                                                                        No         0       No
  B2                                                                        No         0       No
  B3                                                                        No         1       No
  B4                                                                        No         4       No
  B5                                                                        No         0       No
  B5                                                                        No         0       No
  B5                                                                        No         0       No
  B5                                                                        No         0       No
  B5                                                                        No         0       Yes
  B6                                                                        No         1       No
  B6                                                                        No         0       No
  C                                                                         No         3       No
  C1                                                                        No         1       Yes
  D                                                                         No         3       Yes
  D1                                                                        No         1       Yes
  D1                                                                        No         2       No
  D1                                                                        No         1       No
  D1                                                                        No         2       No
   E                                                                        No         1       No
  E1                                                                        No         3       No
  E1                                                                        No         0       No

(Note: Contact 71 LRS/CEX for the most current template (213-6409).)


Sample recall roster format (back side):
RECALL ROSTER INSTRUCTIONS
  30                                                                                      VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


1. NOTIFICATION: Each individual contacted on the recall roster will, in turn, relay the notification message to the next individual in the pyramid chain. In the
event an individual in the chain cannot be contacted, call the next individual in the chain. The unit will continue efforts until all individuals have received the
necessary information, or until it is determined they do not need the information due to the member’s current status (i.e., on leave, TDY, termination of situation, etc.).
If the telephone system is not functioning, each person will be physically contacted. Contact may be by a member of the manpower pool who may or may not be from
the same group/organization as the person being contacted. Personnel that are “on loan” will be recalled/accounted by the work centers to which they are on loan. All
students will be accounted by the 71 STUS.

2. RECALL DEFINITIONS:

   a. Report To Duty Recall: All base personnel will report for duty immediately in uniform (flight suits, BDUs, ABUs, etc.). Do not shower, shave, put on make-
up, etc. When you arrive at your duty section, advise your supervisor of those individuals in your chain who could not be contacted. Individuals who have been
recalled must be physically present at work to be considered present for duty.

   b. Selective Recall: Select personnel (Emergency Services Personnel, Mission Essential Personnel, or a particular group/squadron, etc.) will be recalled and will
report as directed to meet the situation requirements.

   c. Information Dissemination Recall: Used as a means of passing information to base personnel.

3. ACCOUNTABILITY DEFINITIONS:

   a. Total Force Accountability: Directed by higher headquarters to accurately account for all personnel regardless of location. Unless otherwise directed, no
requirement to report to duty. May require reporting thru the AF Personnel Accountability and Assessment System (AFPAAS). The AFPAAS toll-free number is 1-
800-435-9941 and the website address is https://afpaas.af.mil.

   b. Local Accountability: Directed by 71 FTW/CC, EOC Director, or unit commanders during a local emergency to account for personnel regardless of location.

4. RECALL/ACCOUNTABILITY OPTIONS: Based on the situation, the wing commander or designated representative will determine which of the following
options apply:
   1. Military members(AD, AGR, AFRES, etc.):
      a. Recall.
      b. Contact for accountability.
      c. Aircrew members and air traffic controllers in crew rest - Account for administratively only. Do not contact.
   2. Shift workers:
      a. Recall.
      b. Contact for accountability.
      c. Account for administratively only. Do not contact.
   3. Deployed, TDY, on leave, on pass, or hospitalized/on quarters:
      a. Recall.
      b. Contact for accountability.
      c. Account for administratively only. Do not contact.
   4. Civilians (GS, WG, NAF, DOD, etc.):
      a. Recall.
      b. Contact for accountability.
      c. Account for administratively only. Do not contact.
   5. Local dependents of Military members and all civilians regardless of status:
      a. Account for to include family members of those who are TDY, deployed, or on remote tour.
      b. No action required.
   6. Contractor employees:
      a. Accounted for through program managers/functional areas.
      b. No action required.
   7. Tenant units:
      a. Account for personnel as directed.
      b. No action required.
   8. Child Development Center and Youth Center:
      a. Open for members who already use these services.
      b. No action required.
   9. Other guidance: To be determined based on the event.

5. UNIT SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS: (Units may supplement these procedures as desired/necessary.)




Flow chart example explaining how to read recall roster:
VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014                                                                 31




In this example, the organization commander “A” is called and contacts the flight commanders
“B-F”.

The flight commanders then contact the first individual in each subsequent alpha/numeric chain
(B1, B2, B3, etc.).

These personnel either contact the following individual using traditional recall chain procedures,
or assume responsibility to provide each individual in the chain the appropriate information (i.e.,
group text and response) and report responses back to their UCC.
 32                                                       VANCEAFBI10-200 25 FEBRUARY 2014


                                              Attachment 8
                                      EXAMPLE CHECKLISTS

A8.1. Wing-level checklists. The current wing-level checklists can be accessed on SharePoint
at https://vance.eis.aetc.af.mil/VOC/default.aspx.
OPR: 71 LRS/CEX                                                                       Current as of: 15 Feb 13
Page 5 of 6
 Checklist 10: HAZMAT
 #     TASK                                                      OPR                AGENCY
 NOTE: The actions listed below are in approximate order; however, many actions occur simultaneously
 and some may deviate from sequence. All should be considered.
 58    Advise 71 FTW/CC and 71 MSG/CC on                         JA                 CAT
       legal/jurisdictional issues with local, Oklahoma, federal
       agencies, and private organizations.
 59     Provide legal assistance for families, claims, victims, and    JA                   CAT
        witnesses.
 60     Utilize weather data from MECC on scene to develop             OSW/EM               EOC
        plume models for on-base incidents. Contact 71 OSW for
        regional weather data for incidents off-base.
A8.2. Unit-level checklists. Unit specific checklists will be maintained electronically and/or in
hard copy in the group/unit control center (G/UCC).
OPR: 71 LRS/JA                                                                        Current as of: 15 Feb 13
Page 1 of 1
 Checklist 10: HAZMAT (JA)
 #      TASK                                                           OPR                  AGENCY
 NOTE: The actions listed below are in approximate order; however, many actions occur simultaneously and some
 may deviate from sequence. All should be considered.
 58     Advise 71 FTW/CC and 71 MSG/CC on                              JA                   CAT
        legal/jurisdictional issues with local, Oklahoma, federal
        agencies, and private organizations.
 58a.   Reference applicable OK law. Contact OK State                  JA                   CAT
        representatives for jurisdiction recoveries. Inform 71
        FTW/CC.
 58b.   Contact Mr. Smith, federal representative in Oklahoma          JA                   CAT
        City, at (405) 454-1234.
 59     Provide legal assistance for families, claims, victims, and    JA                   CAT
        witnesses.
 59a.   Reference JA Plan “D,” Legal Assistance For Families.          JA                   CAT
