BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                           VANCE AIR FORCE BASE
71ST FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)                                       INSTRUCTION 31-204

                                                                                 10 APRIL 2013

                                                                                         Security

                                                   AIR FORCE MOTOR VEHICLE TRAFFIC
                                                                       SUPERVISION

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website www.e-
               Publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 71 SFS/S5P                                                          Certified by: 71 SFS/CC
                                                                          (Maj Robert G. Prausa)
                                                                                        Pages: 32
Supersedes:    VAFBI 31-204,
               10 April 2009


This instruction implements and extends the guidance of Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-
1, Integrated Defense, 7 July 2007, Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 31-116, Air Force Motor
Vehicle Traffic Supervision and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-218 IP, Air Force Motor Vehicle
Traffic Supervision, 22 May 2006. This publication applies to all Air Force Reserve, Air
National Guard and Civil Air Patrol units to the full extent. It outlines the Vance Air Force Base
(AFB) Traffic Supervision Program, to include but not limited to, administration of vehicle
registration, traffic accident reporting requirements, and revocation and suspension procedures.
This publication requires the collection and maintenance of information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974 authorized by 10 USC 8013, Secretary of the Air Force: Power and duties;
delegation by and Executive Order 9397 (SSN), as amended. The applicable Privacy Act SORNs
F031 AF SF B, Security Forces Management Information System (March 18, 2010, 75 FR
13096); F031 AF SF C, Complaint/Incident Reports (August 7, 2009, 74 FR 39674); F031 AF
SPK, Vehicle Administration Records (June 11, 1997, 62 FR 31793); and F031 AF SP L,
Traffic Accident and Violation Reports (June 11, 1997, 62 FR 31793) are available at
http://privacy.defense.gov/notices/usaf/. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the VAFB Publications and
 2                                                                             VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


Forms Manager. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program
[FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the form.)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed.


        1.      DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY ........................................................................                  2
        2.      DRIVING PRIVILEGES .......................................................................................        2
        3.      GENERAL TRAFFIC REQUIREMENTS ............................................................                         8
        4.      MOTORCYCLES ..................................................................................................   15
        5.      PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE SAFETY ...........................................................                        17
        6.      IMPOUNDMENT/TOWING OF VEHICLES OR TRAILERS ...........................                                           18
        7.      VEHICLE ACCIDENTS .......................................................................................        20

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                   22

Attachment 2—DRIVING RECORDS AND THE TRAFFIC POINT SYSTEM                                                                        23

Attachment 3—REFERENCE SHEET FOR OKLAHOMA STATE AND US CODE
             VIOLATIONS                                                                                                          27

Attachment 4—TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF DRIVING PRIVILEGES                                                                          31


1. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY
     1.1. The authority of the Installation Commander for the administration of the base motor
     vehicle traffic supervision program, including the authority to revoke, suspend or restore base
     driving privileges in accordance with AFI 31-218(I) and this instruction, is delegated to the71
     MSG/CC. The 71 FTW/CC is the final approving authority for any and all amendments to
     this instruction.
2. DRIVING PRIVILEGES
     2.1. Requirements for Driving Privileges.
        2.1.1. Driving a government owned vehicle (GOV) or privately owned vehicle (POV) on
        Vance AFB is a privilege granted by the installation commander. Motor vehicle
        operators will comply with the laws and instructions governing motor vehicle operation
        and registration on the installation. Failure to comply with the laws and instructions can
        result in administrative action, fines, and/or punitive action.
        2.1.2. Persons who accept the privilege must possess, while operating a motor vehicle,
        and produce on request by law enforcement personnel, the following:
             2.1.2.1. A valid state driver’s license, lawfully licensed to operate motor vehicles in
             appropriate classifications and not be under suspension or revocation in any state.
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                                    3


         Non-US citizens must possess a valid foreign driver’s license with an international
         driving permit.
         2.1.2.2. If a person is driving on Vance AFB with a learner’s permit, IAW Oklahoma
         state law, the passenger in the vehicle must be 21 years of age and must also possess a
         valid operator’s license.
         2.1.2.3. Proof of vehicle ownership or state registration. All vehicles operated on
         Vance AFB will display license plates in accordance with the requirements of the
         state where the vehicle is registered.
             2.1.2.3.1. Under the Service Members Civil Relief Act of 2003, military
             members may retain their original state of residency throughout their service,
             despite living in various states, solely by reason of their military service. The act,
             by implication, allows military members to register their vehicles in one of two
             places, either their state of residence or the state in which they are currently
             living.
         2.1.2.4. Valid proof of current insurance. Proof of current insurance consists of an
         insurance card, or other documents issued by the insurance company, that have a
         policy effective date and an expiration date. Vehicle operators must maintain the
         minimum levels of insurance required by Oklahoma state liability requirements.
  2.2. Stopping and Inspecting Personnel or Vehicles. Security Forces will conduct random
  installation entry/exit vehicle checks (RIEVCs) as directed by the Installation Commander or
  delegated authority. The intent is to protect the security of the command and to protect
  government property. RIEVCs are not conducted merely to establish probable cause;
  inspections ensure the security, military fitness, and good order and discipline of the
  installation, and may include an examination to locate and confiscate unlawful weapons and
  other contraband.
     2.2.1. On-base traffic stops and inspections (other than at entry gates and controlled
     areas) of Privately Owned Vehicles is authorized when there is a reasonable basis to
     believe it’s necessary to enforce a traffic regulation or when there is suspicion of criminal
     activity.
  2.3. Implied Consent to Blood, Breath, or Urine Tests. Drivers give consent to evidential
  tests for alcohol or other drug content of their blood, breath, and/or urine as a condition to
  accepting installation driving privileges. This consent applies when lawfully detained,
  apprehended, or cited for any impaired driving offense committed while driving or in
  physical control of a motor vehicle on Vance AFB. Testing will be completed using
  generally accepted scientific and medical methods and standards
     2.3.1. For all nonconsensual extraction of blood coordinate with SJA for approval.
     2.3.2. Person requesting an additional test will pay at their own cost. The test must be
     approved by the State and completed as soon as possible with any delay noted on the
     results.
  2.4. Implied Consent to Vehicle or Trailer Impoundment. As a condition to accepting
  installation driving privileges, drivers give their consent for the removal and temporary
  impoundment of their POV or trailer if it: 1) is illegally parked for unreasonable periods; 2)
4                                                            VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


    Interferes with traffic operations; 3) creates a safety or security hazard; 4) is disabled by
    accident or incident; 5) is left unattended in, or adjacent to, a restricted, controlled, or off-
    limits area; 6) is abandoned. Drivers also agree to reimburse an authorized agency or
    contractor for the cost of towing, storage, and disposal should a need arise to remove or
    impound their motor vehicle because of a situation described above.
       2.4.1. An unreasonable period is defined as a period of time in excess of 7 consecutive
       days. Abandoned is defined as any vehicle or trailer left parked for an unreasonable
       period, the vehicle or trailer owner is unknown and cannot be determined, or the vehicle
       or trailer displays an unsightly appearance (e.g., flat tires, broken windows, on working
       blocks, missing parts). In either case, the vehicle or trailer is subject to towing.
    2.5. Suspension or Revocation of Driving Base Privileges. The 71 MSG/CC may, for cause
    or any lawful reason, administratively suspend or revoke driving privileges on the
    installation. The suspension or revocation of installation driving privileges or POV
    registrations, for lawful reasons unrelated to traffic violations or safe vehicle operation, is not
    limited or restricted by this regulation.
       2.5.1. Driving privileges are usually suspended when other measures fail to improve a
       driver’s performance. Measures should include counseling and rehabilitation programs if
       violator is entitled to the programs. Driving privileges may also be suspended for up to 6
       months if a driver continually violates installation parking regulations.
       2.5.2. The 71 MSG/CC has discretionary power to withdraw the authorization of active
       duty military personnel, DoD civilian employees, Nonappropriated funds (NAF)
       employees, contractors, and subcontractors to operate government vehicles.
       2.5.3. Immediate suspension of installation driving privileges pending resolution of an
       intoxicated driving incident is authorized for active duty military personnel, family
       members, retired members of the military services, DoD civilian personnel, and others
       with installation driving privileges, regardless of the geographic location of the
       intoxicated driving incident. Suspension is authorized for non–DoD affiliated civilians
       only with respect to incidents occurring on the installation or in areas subject to military
       traffic supervision.
           2.5.3.1. For off-base intoxicated driving incidents, reliable evidence readily available
           will be presented promptly to the 71 MSG/CC for review and authorization of
           immediate suspension of installation driving privileges, pending resolution of the
           intoxicated driving incident in the following circumstances:
               2.5.3.1.1. Refusal to take or complete a lawfully requested chemical test to
               determine contents of blood for alcohol or other drugs.
               2.5.3.1.2. Operating a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol content (BAC) of 0.08
               percent by volume (0.08 grams per 100 milliliters) or higher.
               2.5.3.1.3. Operating a motor vehicle with a BAC of 0.05 percent by volume but
               less than 0.08 percent blood alcohol by volume or failure to successfully perform
               during a field sobriety test.
               2.5.3.1.4. An arrest report or other official documentation of the circumstances of
               an apprehension for intoxicated driving.
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                                     5


Note: A copy of all reports on military personnel and DOD civilian employees apprehended for
intoxicated driving will be forwards by S5 to the installation alcohol and drug abuse facility.
           2.5.3.2. For on-base intoxicated driving incidents, 71 SFS patrolman will provide
           copy of the temporary suspension to the individual at the time of the incident.
       2.5.4. The revocation of installation driving privileges is a severe administrative measure
       to be exercised for serious moving violations or when other available corrective actions
       fail to produce the desired driver improvement. Revocation of the driving privilege will
       be for a specified period but never less than 6 months, apply at all military installations,
       and remain in effect upon reassignment.
       2.5.5. Revocation of installation driving and registration privileges is authorized for
       military personnel, family members, DoD civilian employees, contractors, and other
       individuals with installation driving privileges. For civilian guests, revocation is
       authorized only with respect to incidents occurring on the installation or in the areas
       subject to military traffic supervision.
       2.5.6. Driving privileges will be revoked for a mandatory period of not less than 1 year
       in the following circumstances:
           2.5.6.1. The installation commander or designee has determined the person lawfully
           apprehended for driving under the influence refused to submit to or complete a test to
           measure the alcohol content in the blood, or detect the presence of any other drug as
           required by the law of the jurisdiction or installation traffic code or by service
           directive.
           2.5.6.2. A conviction, nonjudicial punishment, or a military or civilian administrative
           action resulting in the suspension or revocation of driver’s license for intoxicated
           driving. Appropriate official documentation of such conviction is required as the
           basis for revocation.
           2.5.6.3. When temporary suspensions under paragraph 2.5.3. above are followed by
           revocations, the period of revocation is computed beginning from the date the original
           suspension was imposed, exclusive of any period during which full driving privileges
           may have been restored pending resolution of charges.
   2.6. Administrative Due Process for Suspensions and Revocations. For offenses other than
   intoxicated driving, suspension or revocation of the installation driving privilege will not
   become effective until the installation commander or designee notifies the affected person
   and offers that person an administrative hearing. Suspension or revocation will take place 10
   duty days after written notice is received unless the affected person makes an application for
   a hearing within this period. Such application will stay the pending suspension or revocation
   for a period of 10 duty days.
       2.6.1. If, due to action by the 71 FTW, a hearing is not held within 10 duty days, the
       suspension will not take place until such time as the person is granted a hearing and is
       notified of the action of the installation commander or designee. However, if the affected
       person requests the hearing be continued to a date beyond the 10-day period, the
       suspension or revocation will become effective immediately on receipt of notice that the
6                                                          VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


       request for continuance has been granted, and will remain in force pending a hearing at a
       scheduled hearing date.
       2.6.2. If it is determined as a result of a hearing to suspend or revoke the affected
       person’s driving privileges, the suspension or revocation will become effective when the
       person receives the written notification of such action. In the event that written
       notification cannot be verified either through a return receipt for mail or delivery through
       command channels, the hearing authority will determine the effective date on a case-by-
       case basis.
       2.6.3. If the revocation or suspension is imposed after such hearing, the person whose
       driving privilege has been suspended or revoked will have the right to appeal or request
       reconsideration. Such requests must be forwarded through command channels to the
       installation commander within 10 duty days from the date the individual is notified of the
       suspension or revocation resulting from the administrative hearing. The suspension or
       revocation will remain in effect pending a final ruling on the request. Requests for
       restricted privileges will be considered per paragraph 2.10.
       2.6.4. If driving privileges are temporarily restored (that is, for family hardship), pending
       resolution of charges, the period of revocation (after final authority determination) will
       still total the mandatory 12 months. The final date of the revocation will be adjusted to
       account for the period when the violator’s privileges were temporarily restored; this
       period does not count towards the revocation time.
    2.7. Restoration of Driving Privileges Upon Acquittal of Intoxicated Driving. The
    suspension of driving privileges for military and civilian personnel shall be restored if a final
    disposition indicates a finding of not guilty, charges are dismissed or reduced to an offense
    not amounting to intoxicated driving, or where an equivalent determination is made in a
    nonjudicial proceeding. The following are exceptions to the rule in which suspensions will
    continue to be enforced:
       2.7.1. The preliminary suspension was based on refusal to take a BAC test.
       2.7.2. The preliminary suspension resulted from a valid BAC test (unless disposition of
       the charges was based on invalidity of the BAC test). In the case of a valid BAC test, the
       suspension will continue, pending completion of a hearing as specified in paragraph 2.6.
       In such instances, the individual will be notified in writing that the suspension will
       continue and of the opportunity to request a hearing within 14 calendar days.
           2.7.2.1. At the hearing, the arrest report, the commander’s report of official
           disposition, information presented by the individual, and such other information as
           the hearing officer may deem appropriate will be considered.
           2.7.2.2. If the hearing officer determines by preponderance of evidence that the
           individual was engaged in intoxicated driving, the revocation will be for 1 year from
           the date of the original preliminary suspension.
       2.7.3. The person was driving or in physical control of a motor vehicle while under a
       preliminary suspension or revocation.
       2.7.4. An administrative determination has been made by the state or host nation
       licensing authority to suspend or revoke driving privileges.
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                                    7


     2.7.5. The individual has failed to complete a formally directed substance abuse or
     driver’s training program.
  2.8. Restricted Driving Privileges or Probation. The 71 MSG/CC may grant restricted
  driving privileges or probation on a case-by-case basis, provided the person’s state or host
  nation driver’s license or right to operate motor vehicles remains valid to accommodate any
  of the following reasons:
     2.8.1. Mission requirements.
     2.8.2. Unusual personal or family hardships.
     2.8.3. Delays exceeding 90 days, not attributed to the person concerned, in the formal
     disposition of an apprehension or charges that are the basis for any type of suspension or
     revocation.
     2.8.4. When there is no reasonably available alternate means of transportation to
     officially assigned duties. In this instance, a limited exception can be granted for the sole
     purpose of driving directly to and from the place of duty.
     2.8.5. The terms and limitations on a restricted driving privilege (for example,
     authorization to drive to and from place of employment or duty, or selected installation
     facilities such as hospital, commissary, and or other facilities) will be specified in writing
     and provided to the individual concerned. Persons found in violation of the restricted
     privilege are subject to revocation action as prescribed in paragraph 2.5.
     2.8.6. The conditions and terms of probation will be specified in writing and provided to
     the individual concerned. The original suspension or revocation term in its entirety may
     be activated to commence from the date of the violation of probation. In addition,
     separate action may be initiated, based on the commission of any traffic, criminal, or
     military offense that constitutes a probation violation.
     2.8.7. DoD employees and contractors, who can demonstrate that suspension or
     revocation of installation driving privileges would constructively remove them from
     employment, may be given a limiting suspension/revocation that restricts driving on the
     installation or activity to the most direct route to and from their respective work sites.
     This is not to be construed as limiting the commander from suspension or revocation of
     on-duty driving privileges, even if this action would constructively remove a person from
     employment in those instances in which the person’s duty requires driving from place to
     place on the installation.
  2.9. Extensions of Suspensions and Revocations. Driving in violation of a suspension or
  revocation imposed under this regulation will result in the original period of suspension or
  revocation being increased by 2 years. In addition, administrative action may be initiated,
  based on the commission of any traffic, criminal, or military offenses; for example, active
  duty military personnel driving on the installation in violation of a lawful order.
  2.10. Reinstatement of Driving Privileges. Reinstatement of driving privileges shall be
  automatic, provided all revocations applicable have expired, proper proof of completion of
  remedial driving course and/or substance abuse counseling has been provided, and
  reinstatement requirements of individual’s home state and/or state the individual may have
  been suspended in, have been met.
8                                                          VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


3. GENERAL TRAFFIC REQUIREMENTS
    3.1. Operating Speed Restrictions. No person will drive a vehicle at a speed greater than is
    reasonable and prudent under existing conditions. Every person will drive at a safe and
    appropriate speed when approaching or crossing an intersection, traveling on a narrow or
    winding roadway, when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other traffic, or
    by reasons of weather or road conditions.
       3.1.1. Maximum Limits. The maximum speed limit on Vance AFB is 25 miles per hour
       (mph) unless otherwise posted or as indicated below:
           3.1.1.1. Family Housing, through installation gates and unpaved surfaces - 15 mph.
           3.1.1.2. In close proximity to marching or running formations - 10 mph.
           3.1.1.3. All parking lots - 10 mph.
           3.1.1.4. Parking ramp - 5 mph.
           3.1.1.5. Flight Line Rd – 15 mph.
           3.1.1.6. School Zone Hours of Operation: 15 mph Monday – Friday 0730-0830,
           1045-1115, 1145-1230, and 1430-1530 or as otherwise posted.
       3.1.2. Excessive Speed. Traveling 15-19 mph over posted speed limit or greater than 7
       mph in base housing, School Zone or Child Development Center (CDC) is an automatic
       30-day suspension of driving privileges and 5 points added to your driving record.
       Traveling 20 mph over posted speed limit is an automatic 60-day suspension of driving
       privileges and 6 points added to your driving record.
       3.1.3. Minimum Limits. An operator may not drive at a speed which impedes the normal
       and reasonable movement of traffic. (EXCEPTION: When reduced speed is necessary
       for safe operation or in compliance with law or other traffic control devices.)
       3.1.4. Exhibition of Speed. Motor vehicle operators will not accelerate in any manner
       which causes the wheels of their vehicle to break traction with the pavement or road
       surface.
    3.2. Obedience to Security Forces Members. Any driver of a motor vehicle who willfully
    flees or otherwise attempts to elude any Security Forces member is subject to having his/her
    installation driving privileges suspended at least 1 year. The order or direction of the
    Security Forces member may be oral, by hand or body gesture, by the use of emergency
    lights, by siren, or by any other signal which clearly indicates the Security Forces member’s
    order or direction.
    3.3. Buses. The driver of a motor vehicle, upon meeting (from either direction) a shuttle or
    school bus which has stopped on a roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging
    passengers with overhead flashers operating will stop before reaching the bus. Drivers will
    not proceed until the bus resumes motion, until signaled by the bus driver to proceed, or the
    visual signals are no longer activated and all passengers are safely out of the traveled portion
    of the roadway.
    3.4. Cellular Phones (Driver Distraction). The use of cellular phones while operating a
    motorized vehicle, moped, scooter, and while bicycling or skating are prohibited.
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                                    9


  (EXCEPTION: If a vehicle operator is using a cellular phone they must be using the hands-
  free functions while operating motorized vehicles.) NOTE: Cellular phones with speaker
  phone capability cannot be used while being held in the person’s hand; this is not considered
  hands-free operation.
     3.4.1. Cellular Phone Penalties. The following penalties and guidelines apply to cellular
     phone violations on Vance AFB. A single violation will result in a 7-day driving
     suspension. Two violations within a 6-month period will result in a 30-day driving
     suspension. A third violation in a 12-month period will result in a 60-day driving
     suspension; further violations will result in more severe consequences. NOTE:
     Dependents who are citied for multiple cellular phone violations may be required to
     appear in front of the Dependent Review Board. All appeals and administrative
     processes will be IAW VAFBI 31-202, Dependent Review Board.
  3.5. Wearing a Device That Affects Hearing (Headphones). No person may operate a
  vehicle on any roadway while wearing a device or instrument which substantially impairs
  their hearing. This includes, but is not limited to, the use of headsets or earphones containing
  or connecting to a source of sound such as an IPod, MP3 player, cell phone, etc.
  3.6. Stopping for Reveille or Retreat. The driver of a vehicle shall immediately pull to the
  right shoulder of the roadway or traffic lane and stop when reveille or retreat is sounded. The
  vehicle will not be placed into motion until the last note of all music is sounded or unless
  directed by an authorized traffic controller. This includes all motor vehicles entering the
  installation.
  3.7. Vehicles Entering Yield Intersections. The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign
  will slow to a speed which is reasonable for the existing conditions, and will yield the right-
  of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching so closely as to constitute an
  immediate hazard. NOTE: If a driver is involved in a collision with a vehicle in an
  intersection after driving past a yield sign without stopping, such collision is deemed prima
  facie evidence of the driver's failure to yield right-of-way.
  3.8. Traffic Circles. Motorists in the traffic circle have the right-of-way. Motorists exiting
  the traffic circle must use their turn signal indicating their intent to exit the traffic circle.
  3.9. Parking/Stopping/Standing. Parking is authorized only in designated areas. Do not
  park, stop or stand by a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, in
  compliance with other traffic laws, the directions of a Security Forces member or traffic
  control device, in any of the following places (Doing so will constitute a security and/or
  safety concern, and the vehicle will be subject to towing at the owner’s expense):
     3.9.1. Do not park within 50 feet of any hangar, ammunition storage area, or fuel storage
     area (except in designated parking spaces).
     3.9.2. Do not park within 25 feet of a fire hydrant.
     3.9.3. Do not park at any spot officially designated for another person or agency.
     3.9.4. Do not park upon any seeded or grassy area or the shoulder of the road except:
         3.9.4.1. Utility vehicles being used in the performance of repair, maintenance, or
         construction.
10                                                       VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


        3.9.4.2. During special activities and events when parking on seeded or grassy areas
        and the shoulder of roads has been authorized by the 71 MSG/CC or designee.
     3.9.5. Do not park within 15 feet of trash containers or in a manner that blocks access to
     the container.
     3.9.6. Do not park on any side of any road on the main installation unless the pavement
     is marked with signs or other traffic control markings as an authorized parking area.
     3.9.7. Do not park on streets in housing areas where your vehicle impedes other vehicles,
     including emergency vehicles and school buses.
        3.9.7.1. Do not park on either side of the street that faces against the direction of
        travel or as directed by street signs.
        3.9.7.2. Do not park on the inside of a traffic circle.
        3.9.7.3. Do not park a vehicle which would block or intrude into any portion of
        another’s driveway.
     3.9.8. Do not park recreational vehicles, boats, campers, or trailers in any location other
     than the approved RV Storage Lot spaces, which is provided and maintained by the
     MWR Section. If the RV lot is full, owners will be placed on a waiting list. Services
     personnel and the 71 SFS Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC) control the keys for
     the lot.
        3.9.8.1. Boats, trailers, moving rental trucks, and RV vehicles may only be parked in
        standard parking spaces throughout the installation for short periods of time (less than
        48 hours).
        3.9.8.2. Cherokee Lodge guests are authorized to park RVs and rental moving trucks
        overnight at the base park parking lot. These vehicles will not be parked off paved
        surfaces (on grassy areas). Owners must ensure the vehicles, boats, or trailers are
        properly registered at all times and do not display an unsightly appearance.
        3.9.8.3. Personnel residing in base housing may park trailers, U-Haul type vehicles,
        campers and other large recreational vehicles for no longer than 72 consecutive hours
        for the purpose of loading, unloading, charging batteries, preparation for use, or
        storage. Under no circumstances will recreational vehicles be parked for longer than
        72 hours. Long-term parking is available with Outdoor Recreation or commercial
        off-base locations for all vehicles not authorized in base housing. Violators are
        subject to towing.
        3.9.8.4. Personnel residing in dormitory facilities with, but not limited to, U-Haul
        type vehicles, boats with trailers, recreation vehicles, travel trailers, campers, sport
        water craft, motorcycle trailers and cars in tow or any non-passenger vehicles are
        allowed to park in the dormitory parking areas only for the purpose of loading or
        unloading the mentioned items not to exceed 72 hours. Long-term parking is
        available with Outdoor Recreation or commercial off-base locations for all vehicles
        not authorized in base housing. Violators are subject to towing.
     3.9.9. The only approved installation parking area for deployed or TDY personnel to
     park their vehicles long term is the parking area between Bldg 525 and Elam Rd. These
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                                   11


     spaces are marked by signs. If a vehicle is parked in this area, it is the vehicle owner’s
     responsibility to ensure their vehicle is maintained, registration is current, etc. Failure to
     do so will result in the vehicle being towed at the owner’s expense.
     3.9.10. Unmanned Moving Containers. In order to preserve safety and security,
     unmanned movement containers (containers used to move personal household goods left
     without an immediate means of removal; i.e., no driver or not connected to a truck) must
     comply with the following guidance when placed on the installation:
         3.9.10.1. Containers can only be placed in the housing area.
         3.9.10.2. Containers must be less than 8 feet wide.
         3.9.10.3. Containers must be placed a minimum of 15 feet from any fire hydrant.
         3.9.10.4. Containers must not block the line of sight at intersections for traffic in any
         direction.
         3.9.10.5. Containers must not block any driveways, even if the driveway is at a
         vacant house (EXCEPTION: You may block your own driveway).
         3.9.10.6. Containers must not block, prohibit, or restrict normal traffic flow.
         3.9.10.7. Containers must be placed only on paved areas.
         3.9.10.8. Containers must be placed on the parking side of the street or in the
         driveway.
         3.9.10.9. Containers must be backed into place if placed in a cul-de-sac or other area
         where they cannot be turned around, in order to only move forward when departing.
     3.9.10.10.   Containers must be removed within 5 days of placement.
     3.9.11. Prior to bringing a container on base, the military member must notify the base
     fire department of the placement location and the dates the container will be on base.
     3.9.12. During periods of increased security measures, unmanned containers will not be
     allowed on the installation. Members should contact the Wing Antiterrorism Office to
     inquire if unmanned containers are allowed under the current FPCON.
     3.9.13. Motorcycle Parking. Motorcycles, scooters, motor driven cycles, and motorized
     bicycles may park in normal parking spaces when motorcycle-only spaces are full or non-
     existent. Cycles angle park, two to a slot, in lots with angle parking and 90 degree
     parking. For parallel parking, face cycles outward at a right angle to the curb. Three
     cycles in one slot are authorized. Cycles are not authorized to park in non-parking areas
     or on any curb, sidewalk, etc.
     3.9.14. Suspended Drivers Parking Area. The designated parking area for individuals
     with suspended base driving privileges is the Visitor Control Center/Bldg 72, parking lot.
  3.10. Reserved Parking. To facilitate official government business, key personnel may be
  authorized reserved parking spaces near their primary work center based upon number of
  spaces available. Reserved parking spaces will be approved for no more than 10 percent of
  all available spaces for a particular facility or parking area, except for handicap parking
12                                                      VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


  which must comply with uniform federal accessibility standards. NOTE: Handicapped
  parking does not count against the 10 percent of reserved parking limit.
     3.10.1. Facility managers will complete an AF Form 332, CE Work Request, for all
     reserved parking requests and route through the 71 LRS/CE, Engineer Community
     Planner for Coordination. 71 LRS/CE will forward requests to the 71 MSG/CC for final
     approval.
     3.10.2. Temporary signs may be used to reserve parking slots for visiting dignitaries.
     These signs may be put in place the night prior to the visit to ensure the space is empty.
     They will be allowed to remain in place for the duration of the visit and must be removed
     immediately following the departure of the visiting dignitaries. Temporary signs will not
     be used for personnel who work within the facility.
  3.11. Parking Wardens.     The 71 SFS/S3 will manage the installation parking warden
  program.
     3.11.1. The unit commander, director or detachment chief exercising jurisdiction over a
     particular facility or building will appoint parking wardens (designated military or Air
     Force civilian employees) for specific building/facility parking lots. They will also
     direct/dictate the scope of operations and time spent dealing with parking issues. This is
     an additional duty, therefore parking wardens are not appointed solely to focus on
     parking, but to assist the facility manager in enforcing parking plans and to randomly
     monitor parking areas or deal with illegal parking issues. Nobody may write a parking
     ticket without having been appointed in writing as specified above and having attended
     the specified training in paragraph 3.11.3 below.
     3.11.2. A listing of a unit’s parking wardens will be provided to the 71 SFS/S5R initially
     and/or when there are changes made. Parking wardens will follow the same ticket
     writing procedures as Security Forces members.
     3.11.3. The 71 SFS Training Section (S3T) will ensure parking wardens are trained on
     specific parking warden duties. There will be initial training when assigned and remedial
     training as needed.
         3.11.3.1. Parking wardens will maintain a roster of reserved parking spaces assigned
         to their building/facility and the people authorized to use reserved parking slots.
         Handicapped, GOV, and mission parking are reserved, but are not assigned to any
         one specific person or vehicle.
         3.11.3.2. Parking wardens will enforce compliance with these parking rules and
         regulation by writing parking tickets and/or calling Security Forces to report a vehicle
         for towing, according to this instruction. Tickets will be received into 71 SFS/S5R
         within 5 days of the date of issue.
  3.12. Parking Penalties. The following penalties and guidelines apply to parking violations
  on Vance AFB. Multiple suspensions will be served concurrently:
     3.12.1. One handicap parking violation results in a 30-day suspension of base driving
     privileges.
     3.12.2. Three parking violations within 12 months results in a 30-day suspension.
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                                13


     3.12.3. Four parking violations within 12 months results in a 60-day suspension.
     3.12.4. Five parking violations within 12 months results in a 90-day suspension.
     3.12.5. Six parking violations within 12 months results in a 6-month suspension.
  3.13. Maintenance of Vehicles on Roads and Parking Areas.
     3.13.1. Do not perform maintenance on a vehicle stopped or parked on a roadway except
     for minor maintenance required to render the vehicle immediately operational.
     3.13.2. Do not perform major maintenance on a vehicle except at the Auto Hobby Shop.
     Any vehicle that can't be identified by Auto Hobby Shop personnel is subject to
     impoundment at the owner's expense.
     3.13.3. Do not leave a vehicle unattended on a road or parking area while the vehicle is
     supported by jacks, stands, or blocks. If a vehicle breakdown requires a vehicle to be left
     while maintenance/towing options are researched, contact the BDOC at 213-7415. All
     vehicles abandoned due to maintenance issues must be towed or otherwise moved within
     8 hours.
  3.14. Alcohol Related Offenses.
     3.14.1. Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) and Breath Alcohol Content (BrAC) Standards.
     The following standards are applied at Vance AFB for military and civilian personnel:
         3.14.1.1. Military members and civilians under any form of conveyance with a BAC
         or BrAC of 0.08 percent or higher are charged with drunken driving or driving under
         the influence. (The assimilation of the Oklahoma law is considered more stringent
         and will be enforced). A temporary suspension of base driving privileges will be
         automatically issued upon notification of drunken driving or driving under the
         influence. Violators will be issued a Temporary Suspension of Base Driving
         Privileges memorandum upon detention/apprehension for an intoxicated driving
         incident by the apprehending Security Forces patrolman/sentry. The duration of the
         temporary suspension will last until the resolution of the incident IAW the Temporary
         Suspension of Base Driving Privileges memorandum.
         3.14.1.2. Military members and civilians under any form of conveyance with a BAC
         or BrAC of .05 percent to 0.07 percent or who fail to successfully perform during a
         field sobriety test are presumed to be impaired. Consider the BAC and/or BrAC
         along with the other evidence of impairment before determining whether the
         individual could safely operate the vehicle. Consult with the base legal office before
         citing a military member or civilian for driving while impaired. A temporary
         suspension of base driving privileges will be automatically issued upon notification of
         driving while impaired. Violators will be issued a Temporary Suspension of Base
         Driving Privileges memorandum upon detention/apprehension for an intoxicated
         driving incident by the apprehending Security Forces patrolman/sentry. The duration
         of the temporary suspension will last until the resolution of the incident IAW the
         Temporary Suspension of Base Driving Privileges memorandum.
     3.14.2. Minors under the age of 21. Under Oklahoma laws, any minor with any
     measurable BAC or BrAC will be considered under the influence. Consult with base
     legal office.
14                                                       VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


     3.14.3. Refusal of Implied Consent Procedures. If any civilian or military member
     refuses to provide a proper breath, blood, or urine sample during the course of a
     suspected intoxicated driving incident, will be cited via DD Form 1805, United States
     District Court Violation Notice, or DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket, (as
     appropriate), and their driving privileges will be suspended IAW established procedure.
     3.14.4. Other Alcohol Related Offenses. Military and civilian personnel can be
     apprehended or cited for violations of the following infractions:
         3.14.4.1. Driving With an Open Container. Do not drive or ride in a vehicle with an
         open container of alcoholic beverage in the driver or passenger compartment of the
         vehicle. For the purpose of this instruction, the term open container includes, but is
         not limited to, a bottle, can, or any other receptacle containing an alcoholic beverage
         with the seal around the lid, cap, or cork having been broken, removed, or otherwise
         nonexistent. In the event a vehicle has no storage outside the driver or passenger
         compartment, place open containers (wine/liquor) in an area (trunk or truck bed) not
         accessible to the driver or any other person in the vehicle while it is in motion.
         3.14.4.2. Aiding and Abetting the Crime of Driving Under the Influence/Drunken
         Driving. Any person who assists, encourages, advises, instigates, counsels, or
         commands another person to drive a motor vehicle while the operator is intoxicated,
         shall be guilty of this crime, and their base driving privileges shall be revoked for one
         year.
         3.14.4.3. Operating or Physically Controlling Any Vehicle, as Defined in 1 U.S.C. §
         4,While Intoxicated. It is an offense on Vance AFB to operate any vehicle including,
         but not limited to, bicycles, skateboards, roller blades, or roller skates while under the
         influence of alcohol. Subjects will be cited via DD Form 1408 or DD Form 1805.
  3.15. Unauthorized Vehicle Accessories. The use of radar or laser detection devices to
  indicate the presence of speed recording instruments or to transmit simulated erroneous
  speeds is prohibited on Vance AFB.
  3.16. Littering. The discharge or throwing of trash or any other item onto the roadway or
  property of Vance AFB is prohibited.
  3.17. Headlights. Utilize headlights 60 minutes prior to sunset to 60 minutes after sunrise,
  during fog, smoke, or rain when windshield wipers are activated, or any other time when
  persons and vehicles cannot be seen clearly. Except when approaching an installation entry
  point, do not use parking lights when a motor vehicle is in motion, unless the headlamps are
  also lighted. All motorcycles, mopeds, motor scooters, three wheeled vehicles and ATVs
  will have headlights turned on at all times when operating on a Vance AFB on or off road.
  3.18. Eluding Traffic Control Devices. It is unlawful for any person to drive through
  parking lots or other areas to elude or bypass specific traffic control devices.
  3.19. Unattended Motor Vehicles. No vehicle will be left running while unattended on base.
  EXCEPTIONS: When the vehicle is parked in a resident’s driveway, garage or carport in
  base housing and SF or other emergency vehicles in performance of official duties.
     3.19.1. No person will leave a child or children (under the age of 12 years) or
     animal(pet) unattended in a vehicle.
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                                  15


  3.20. Vehicle Noise and Quiet Zones/Hours. Motor vehicle operators will not operate their
  vehicles in such a manner as to disrupt or otherwise disregard the rights of those around
  them. This applies to all areas of the installation; however, special emphasis is placed on
  those areas identified as "Quiet Zones" (base housing areas and all dormitory parking areas),
  and during base wide "Quiet Hours" which are between 2200 and 0600 daily.
     3.20.1. Acceleration of a vehicle in such a manner as to cause a loud or unusual noise is
     prohibited.
     3.20.2. Unnecessary use of vehicle horns or audible equipment (including vehicle stereo
     systems) is prohibited. For vehicle stereos, the volume level will not be set in such a
     manner as to be clearly audible exceeding 50 feet in any direction.
  3.21. Safe Clearance. The operator of each motor vehicle will ensure there is proper
  clearance to the front, rear, right, left, top and bottom of their vehicle at all times to avoid
  collisions with other vehicles or fixed objects.
  3.22. Seat Belts/Safety Restraints.
     3.22.1. Use of Seat Belts. All personnel who operate or who are passengers in a motor
     vehicle will wear seat belts within the confines of Vance AFB. Buses (not to include the
     driver), tractors, and two wheeled vehicles are exempted from the seat belt requirement.
     Additionally, government vehicles may be exempt on a case-by-case basis as designated
     by the installation commander. NOTE: Cars manufactured after model year 1966
     require a manufacturer-approved restraint system meeting federal traffic safety standards.
         3.22.1.1. Seatbelts must be worn in a manner consistent with their original design.
         3.22.1.2. There may be no more occupants in any vehicle than there are individual
         seatbelts.
         3.22.1.3. Seatbelt Penalties. The following penalties and guidelines apply to seatbelt
         violations on Vance AFB. Two violations within a 6-month period will result in a 30-
         day driving suspension. A third violation in a 12-month period will result in a 60-day
         driving suspension. Further violations will result in more severe consequences.
     3.22.2. Child Restraint Devices or Systems. Operators of vehicles are responsible for
     ensuring that all passengers, including children under 4 years old or under 50 pounds,
     who must be properly restrained by a child passenger restraint device or a system meeting
     applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards established by the Department of
     Transportation, use seat belts as required by those provisions. Child restraint seat
     systems/booster seats must be placed in the back seat when vehicle is equipped with a
     back seat.
     3.22.3. Pickup Bed Passengers. Riding in the beds of pickup trucks, whether POV or
     GOV, is prohibited on Vance AFB. If contingencies require passengers in the beds of
     GOVs, approval by the organizational commander is required.
  3.23. Dependents who are cited for multiple violations may be required to appear in front of
  the Dependent Review Board. All appeals and administrative processes will be IAW VAFBI
  31-202, Dependent Review Board.
4. MOTORCYCLES
16                                                       VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


  4.1. Manner of Riding.
     4.1.1. No person will ride on any motor-driven cycle that does not have a permanent or
     regular seat attached.
     4.1.2. No person will use any motor-driven cycle or motorized bicycle to carry more than
     one person unless it is equipped with a side-car or extra seat and support for the
     passenger's feet.
     4.1.3. At no time will all-terrain vehicles be driven on any part of the roadway, parking
     lots, or any other area on this installation unless authorized by the 71 SFS/CC.
     4.1.4. No person operating a motorcycle, motor scooter or moped will carry any
     package, bundle or article which prevents the use of both hands in the control and
     operation.
  4.2. Operator Requirements.
     4.2.1. Operators will operate motorcycles with the headlights on at all times.
     4.2.2. All active duty military members, military reservists, NAF employees, and DoD
     civilian employees who operate a motorcycle, motor scooter or moped on the installation
     are required to attend an approved motorcycle rider safety course. Personnel must
     possess their safety course card, proof of insurance and valid motorcycle driver’s license
     on them at all times while operating a motorcycle on the installation. Operation of
     mopeds requires a valid state driver’s license.
     4.2.3. A rear view mirror will be attached to each side of the handlebars on both
     motorcycles and mopeds.
     4.2.4. All operators and passengers of motorcycles, motor scooters, mopeds and ATVs
     are required to wear safety clothing and equipment listed below:
         4.2.4.1. Head Protection. A helmet, certified to meet current Federal Motor Vehicle
         Safety Standard No. 218 shall be worn and properly fastened under the chin.
         4.2.4.2. Eye Protection. Goggles, wrap around glasses, or a full-face shield (properly
         attached to helmet) designed to meet or exceed American National Standards Institute
         (ANSI) Standard Z87.1 for impact and shatter resistance will be worn and properly
         used. A windshield does not constitute proper eye protection.
         4.2.4.3. Protective Clothing. Wearing of long sleeved shirt or jacket, long trousers
         and full-fingered gloves is required. Gloves will be made from leather or other
         abrasion-resistant material. Gloves should be a sturdy, non-slip type to permit a firm
         grip on the controls. Wearing of a motorcycle jacket and pants constructed of
         abrasion resistant materials such as leather, Kevlar and/or Cordura containing impact
         absorbing padding is strongly encouraged.
         4.2.4.4. Foot Protection. Sturdy, over the ankle footwear that affords protection for
         the feet and ankles (durable leather or ballistic-type cloth athletic shoes that cover the
         ankles may be worn). Sandals, low quarters, sneakers and similar footwear will not
         be used.
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                                    17


         4.2.4.5. Tactical Motorcycle and ATV Rider Protection. All on-duty riders of
         government-owned motorcycles and ATV operators during off-road operations will
         also wear knee pads, shin guards and padded full-fingered gloves. Special duty
         requirements may dictate limited compliance.          Risk management will be
         accomplished by the functional commander prior to riding.
         4.2.4.6. Garment and Motorcycle Visibility. Motorcycle riders will choose upper
         garments riding apparel that incorporate high visibility colors (e.g., fluorescents,
         yellow, orange or red, etc.) during the day and a retro-reflective upper garment during
         the night. Airman Battle Uniform, flight suits or other services’ combat utility
         uniforms (e.g., Army Combat Uniform ) are not authorized as an approved upper
         outer garment during day operations and require the use of a reflective belt or vest. If
         a reflective belt is worn, it will be across the upper body (over a shoulder), not worn
         around the waist, and must be visible from the front and the rear of the operator.
         4.2.4.7. Wearing a backpack is authorized if it incorporates high-visibility colors
         during the day and retro-reflective properties at night. The backpack cannot obscure
         the high visibility and/or reflectivity of the rider’s upper garment. If the backpack is
         not a highly visible color, then a reflective belt or tape will be required around the
         bag. NOTE: This does not replace the requirement for the reflective vest or belt in
         non-high visibility clothing. The operator and backpack will have reflective
         belts/vests.
         4.2.4.8. AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel,
         establishes guidelines for the wear of protective equipment with the uniform.
5. PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLE SAFETY
  5.1. Wearing a Device That Affects Hearing (Headphones). No person may ride a bicycle,
  skateboard, roller skate, roller blade, walk, run or jog on any portion of any roadway or
  sidewalk while wearing a device or instrument which substantially impairs their hearing.
  This includes, but is not limited to, the use of headsets or earphones containing or connecting
  to a source of sound such as an IPod, MP3 player, cell phone, etc.
  5.2. When walking, jogging or running on roadways at night or in inclement weather (e.g.,
  fog, rain, sleet, snow, etc.), personnel will wear clothing containing retro-reflective properties
  or retro-reflective accessories visible from the front and back.
  5.3. Running/walking individuals will run on existing sidewalks or running trails, where
  available. Where these are not available, runners/walkers will do so in such a manner as to
  face oncoming traffic.
  5.4. Carrying Articles. No person operating a bicycle will carry any package, bundle or
  article which prevents the use of both hands in the control and operation of the bicycle. A
  person riding a bicycle will keep at least one hand on the handlebars at all times.
  5.5. Clinging to Vehicles. No person riding upon any bicycle, roller skates, roller blades,
  sled, skateboards, or toy vehicle will attach same or themselves to any vehicle upon a road,
  parking area, or driveway.
18                                                         VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


  5.6. Riding on Roads. Bicycles will be operated safely, prudently, and will adhere to all
  traffic signs and rules of the road. Bicyclists will ride as near to the far right side of the road
  as possible, exercising caution near parked cars.
  5.7. Bicycles on Sidewalks. Do not operate bicycles on sidewalks, except those small
  bicycles operated by younger children.
  5.8. Parking Bicycles. Bicycles should be parked in bicycle racks, where available.
  Bicycles may be parked on seeded areas and next to buildings but not in building entry ways
  or approaches to entry ways.
  5.9. Equipment for Bicycles. Every bicycle must be equipped with a brake or brakes which
  will enable its rider to stop the bicycle within 25 feet from a speed of 10 mph on dry, level,
  clear pavement. All bicycles will also be equipped with reflectors or reflective tape and must
  have an operating headlight during hours of diminished visibility. Additionally, operators
  and passengers are required to wear clothing and helmets as listed in AFI 91-207 and all
  supplements thereto.
     5.9.1. Protective Equipment for Bicycles, Roller Blades, Roller Skates and Skateboards.
     Approved protective helmets are required to be worn at all times. During hours of
     darkness, riders will wear retro-reflective vest/jacket or outer garment containing retro-
     reflective material. Additionally, it is highly encouraged for skateboarders, roller skaters,
     and roller bladers to wear knee/elbow pads and wrist guards.
6. IMPOUNDMENT/TOWING OF VEHICLES OR TRAILERS
  6.1. Vehicles and/or trailers should not be impounded unless they clearly interfere with
  ongoing operations or movement of traffic, threaten public safety or convenience, are
  involved in criminal activity, contain evidence of criminal activity, or are stolen or
  abandoned.
  6.2. The impoundment of vehicles and/or trailers would be inappropriate when reasonable
  alternatives to impoundment exist.
     6.2.1. Attempts should be made to locate the owner of the POV and have the vehicle
     removed.
     6.2.2. The vehicle may be moved a short distance to a legal parking area and temporarily
     secured until the owner is found. This will be determined by the on duty flight sergeant.
     6.2.3. Another responsible person may be allowed to drive or tow the vehicle and/or
     trailer with permission from the owner, operator, or person empowered to control the
     vehicle. In this case, the owner, operator, or person empowered to control the vehicle
     will be informed that SFS personnel are not responsible for safeguarding the vehicle
     and/or trailer.
  6.3. Impounding of vehicles and/or trailers is justified when any of the following conditions
  exist:
     6.3.1. The vehicle and/or trailer is illegally parked on a street or is double parked and
     interferes with the orderly flow of traffic.
     6.3.2. The vehicle and/or trailer is illegally parked on a sidewalk, within an intersection,
     on a crosswalk, in a fire lane, or is blocking a driveway, so that the vehicle interferes with
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                                19


     operations or creates a safety hazard to other roadway users or the general public. An
     example would be a vehicle parked within 15 feet of a fire hydrant or blocking a properly
     marked driveway of a fire station.
     6.3.3. The vehicle and/or trailer is illegally parked blocking an emergency exit door of
     any public place (base theater, club, medical clinic, and other facility).
     6.3.4. The vehicle and/or trailer is illegally parked in a “tow-away” zone that is so
     marked with proper signs.
     6.3.5. The vehicle and/or trailer interferes with street cleaning or snow removal
     operations and attempts to contact the owner have been unsuccessful.
     6.3.6. The vehicle and/or trailer interferes with emergency operations during a natural
     disaster or fire or must be removed from the disaster area during cleanup operations.
     6.3.7. The vehicle and/or trailer has been used in a crime or contains evidence of
     criminal activity.
     6.3.8. The owner or person in charge has been apprehended and is unable or unwilling to
     arrange for custody or removal.
     6.3.9. The vehicle and/or trailer is mechanically defective and is a menace to others
     using the public roadways.
     6.3.10. The vehicle and/or trailer is disabled by a traffic incident, and the operator is
     either unavailable or physically incapable of having the vehicle towed to a place of safety
     for storage or safekeeping.
     6.3.11. Any vehicle or trailer which has not been moved for a 3-day period which has
     expired registration, inspection (if required by the state), or base registration, and the
     owner cannot be contacted.
     6.3.12. SFS personnel reasonably believe the vehicle is abandoned.
         6.3.12.1. Any vehicle or trailer that is inoperable is considered abandoned.
  6.4. Security Forces Process. Security Forces will issue any vehicle or trailer suspected of
  being abandoned a DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket, for an abandoned vehicle.
  The DD Form 1408 is utilized to identify possible abandoned vehicles or trailers. On the
  reverse side of the DD Form 1408 will be instructions for the owner to contact the Base
  Defense Operations Center within 3 duty days to verify the vehicle(s) or trailer(s) has (have)
  been moved or otherwise attended to.
     6.4.1. After a 3-day period, the vehicle or trailer has not been moved or the deficiency
     corrected, Security Forces will complete a DD form 2504, Abandoned Vehicle Notice,
     and will conspicuously place on the vehicle or trailer. The notice will instruct the owner
     to contact Security Forces within 3 duty days to verify the vehicle or trailer has been
     moved or otherwise attended to, or impoundment action will be initiated. This action will
     be documented by an entry in the SF blotter.
     6.4.2. The remaining copies of the DD form 2504 will be forwarded to the Security
     Forces Investigation section (71 SFS/S2I) for processing and possible impoundment
     action. 71 SFS/S2I will attempt to identify the owner of the vehicle or trailer. If the
20                                                      VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


     owner can be identified, Security Forces will contact the owner and the owner’s unit
     commander or first sergeant with instructions to have the vehicle or trailer repaired or
     moved.
     6.4.3. If the vehicle has not been removed after 3 days, or the owner cannot be
     determined, then Security Forces will arrange for the removal of the vehicle or trailer.
     Security Forces, in coordination with the Staff Judge Advocate, will arrange for towing
     and impoundment services with a commercial towing company. All charges incurred are
     the responsibility of the vehicle or trailer owner.
         6.4.3.1. After the vehicle has been removed, 71 SFS/S2I will complete DD Form
         2506 , Vehicle Impoundment Report, as a record of the actions taken.
         6.4.3.2. 71 SFS/S2I will conduct an inventory listing personal property to protect the
         owner, SFS personnel, the contractor, and the commander.
         6.4.3.3. The contents of a closed container such as a suitcase inside the vehicle need
         not be inventoried. Such articles should be opened only if necessary to identify the
         owner of the vehicle or if the container might contain explosives or otherwise present
         a danger to the public. Merely listing the container and sealing it with security tape
         will suffice.
         6.4.3.4. Personal property must be placed in a secure area for safekeeping.
     6.4.4. 71 SFS/S2I will complete the DD Form 2507, Notice of Vehicle Impoundment, and
     forward by certified mail to the address of the last known owner of the vehicle to advise
     the owner of the impoundment action, and to request information concerning the owner’s
     intentions pertaining to the disposition of the vehicle.
         6.4.4.1. If the vehicle is unclaimed after 120 days from the date notification was
         mailed to the last known owner, or the owner releases the vehicle by properly
         completing DD Form 2505, it will be disposed of by releasing the vehicle to the lien
         holder, processed as abandoned property in accordance with DoD 4160.21-M,
         Defense Material Disposition Manual, or will become the lawful possession of the
         Air Force. Prior to the vehicle becoming Air Force property, the SJA will ensure all
         possible legal actions are taken and will assist in developing local procedures for such
         a situation in compliance with AFI guidance.
  6.5. Stolen Vehicles and Trailers or Vehicles and Trailers Involved in Criminal Activity.
  When the vehicle and/or trailer is to be held for evidentiary purposes, the vehicle and/or
  trailer should remain in the custody of the SFS/OSI until law enforcement purposes are
  served.
     6.5.1. Recovered stolen vehicles and/or trailers will be released to the registered owner,
     unless held for evidentiary purposes, or to the law enforcement agency reporting the
     vehicle stolen, as appropriate.
     6.5.2. A vehicle and/or trailer held on request of other authorities will be retained in the
     custody of SFS/OSI until the vehicle can be released to such authorities.
7. VEHICLE ACCIDENTS
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                                  21


  7.1. Reporting Accidents. All vehicle accidents occurring on base will be immediately
  reported to the Base Defense Operations Center (BDOC). Security Forces will respond to
  and investigate all major accidents. In case of multiple incidents, responses will be directed
  to the higher priority first. Vehicle operators are not to move their vehicles from the point of
  impact unless a hazard or life-endangering situation exists. Government vehicle operators
  involved in an off-base accident need to first report the accident to local civil police
  authorities and then to the BDOC. Witnesses, passenger or pedestrian, to an accident must
  contact Security Forces at213-7415 and remain at the scene of the accident until released by
  Security Forces.
  7.2. Vehicle operators will not move vehicles if involved in vehicle accidents until arrival of
  Security Forces personnel, or if the BDOC is notified and instructs the vehicle operators to
  report to the BDOC to file reports for minor accidents.




                                            DARREN V. JAMES, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
 22                                                    VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References:
AFI 31-204, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 14 July 2000
AFI 91-207, US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 27 October 2011
AFI 36-2903, Dress and Personal Appearance of Air Force Personnel, 18 July 2011

Adopted Forms:
DD Form 1408, Armed Forces Traffic Ticket, 1 December 1987
DD Form 1805, United States District Court Violation Notice, 1 January 2009
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change to Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms:
AFB—Air Force Base
ATV—All-Terrain Vehicle
BAC—Blood Alcohol Content
BDOC—Base Defense Operations Center
BrAC—Breath Alcohol Content
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
POV—Privately Owned Vehicle
RIEVC—Random Installation Entry/Exit Vehicle Checks
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                                  23


                                          Attachment 2
               DRIVING RECORDS AND THE TRAFFIC POINT SYSTEM

A2.1. Driving Records. Use SFMIS to record vehicle traffic accidents, moving and parking
violations, suspension or revocation actions and traffic point assessments involving military and
DoD civilian personnel, their family members and other personnel operating motor vehicles on a
military installation.

Table A2.1. Suspension and Point Assessment for Moving Violations.
     Violation                                                                     Points Assessed
        Driver involved in accident is deemed responsible (only added to                  1
        points assessed for specific offenses).
                                                                                         2
         Speed too fast for conditions.
         Speed too slow for traffic conditions, and/or impeding the flow of              2
         traffic, causing potential safety hazard
         Failure of operator or occupants to use available restraint system              2
         devices while moving (operator assessed points).
                                                                                         2
         Failure to properly restrain children in a child restraint system while
         moving (when child is 4 years of age or younger or the weight of
         child does not exceed 50 pounds. See note #1.
                                                                                         2
         Operating an unsafe vehicle. See note #2.

         Improper turning movements (no official sign involved).                         3


         Wearing of headphones/earphones while driving motor vehicles                    3
         (two or more wheels).
         Failure to wear an approved helmet and/or reflectorized vest while              3
         operating or riding on a motorcycle, moped, or a three- or four–
         wheel vehicle powered by a motorcycle-like engine.
                                                                                         3
         Improper overtaking.

                                                                                         3
         One to 10 miles per hour over posted speed limit.

         Operating a radar detection device to indicate the presence of speed            3
         recording instruments or to transmit simulated erroneous speed
         (prohibited on DoD installations). See note #3.
         Failure to yield to pedestrians in designated walkway/crosswalk.
                                                                                         3
         See note #3.
24                                                         VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


     Violation                                                                    Points Assessed

        Other moving violations (involving driver behavior only).                       3

        Over 10 but not more than 15 miles per hour above posted speed
        limit.                                                                          4

        Failure to stop for school bus or school-crossing signals.                      4

        Failure to yield right of way to emergency vehicle.                             4

        Following too close.                                                            4

        Failure to obey traffic signals or traffic instructions of an
        enforcement officer or traffic warden; or any official regulatory
        traffic sign or device requiring a full stop or yield of right of way;          4
        denying entry; or requiring direction of traffic.

        Improper passing.                                                               4

        Failure to yield (no official sign involved).                                   4

                                                                                        5
        Over 15 but not more than 20 miles per hour above posted speed
        limit. Over 7 miles per hour in base housing, School Zone or CDC
                                                                                 30-day Suspension

        Over 20 miles per hour above posted speed limit.                                6

                                                                                         6
        Speed contests.
                                                                                 30-day Suspension
        Driving vehicle while impaired (BAC more than 0.05 percent and                   6
        less than 0.08 percent).                                                 60-day Suspension
                                                                                         6
        Fleeing the scene (hit and run)-property damage only.
                                                                                 60-day Suspension
        Owner knowingly and willfully permitting a physically impaired
        person to operate the owner’s motor vehicle.                                    6

        Reckless driving (willful and wanton disregard for the safety of                 6
        persons or property).                                                    60-day Suspension

        Eluding any Security Forces member                                       1-year Suspension

                                                                                         8
        Driving While Intoxicated (Greater than .08 BAC/BAT)
                                                                                 1-year Suspension
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                                     25


     Violation                                                                      Points Assessed
     NOTES:
     1. Applies to not using or when child restraint system is improperly installed, i.e., car seat,
     infant carrier, booster seat, belt/strap modification (when required by manufacturer), etc.
     Assess four points when no restraint system of any kind is used.

     2. This measure should be used for other than minor vehicle safety defects or when a driver
     or registrant fails to correct a minor defect (for example, a burned out headlight not replaced
     within the grace period on a warning ticket).
     3. When violation occurs within an active school zone, add 1 point to point assessment.

Table A2.2. Point Assessment for Non-Moving Violations.
     Violation                                                                   Points Assessed
        Unattended child under 12 years of age left in vehicle. Animals
                                                                                         6
        are included if a danger exists to the animal. See note #4.
        Improper Registration (fraudulent tags).                                         4
        Misuse of handicap decal. See note #2.                                           3
        Illegally parked in designated handicap area (no decal, license or
                                                                                         3
        placard displayed).
        Unattended Vehicle (while running).                                              3
        Abandoned Vehicle.                                                               3
        Improper Parking. See note #3.                                                   2
        Improper Registration (expired or unregistered).                                 2
 26                                                        VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


      NOTES:
      1. When two or more violations are committed on a single occasion, points may be
      assessed for each violation.
      2. When a vehicle has a handicap decal displayed, but the occupant is not the decal or
      placard registrant and is not dropping off or picking up the handicapped registrant. Also
      includes parking in an area designated for “Van” access only, and handicap registrant has
      parked another vehicle class instead.
      3. When designated in local parking plan (i.e., double parked, parked in reserved parking,
      against the flow of traffic and those areas designated for emergency vehicles).
      4. When an AF Form 3545, Incident Report, will also be accomplished. Revocation of
      driving privileges for 1 year will be considered by the commander. Example: If children
      or animals were left in dangerous conditions in vehicle, i.e., in hot weather where interior
      temperatures may reach dangerous levels, keys left accessible to children or where
      conditions are deemed hazardous by a reasonable person.
      5. Emergency vehicles are authorized to park in any area deemed necessary to affect a
      response.

A2.2. Point System Procedures. 5.2.1.   Distribute citation copies and process point
assessments IAW AFMAN 31-201, Volume 7, Security Forces Reports and Analysis.
      5.2.2. Installation Commanders may suspend or revoke driving privileges as provided by
      this instruction regardless of whether the improvement measures identified in AFI
      31-218(I) are accomplished.
A2.3. Disposition of Driving Records. Follow AFI 33-364, Records Disposition – Procedures
and Responsibilities, to maintain and destroy records of military personnel released from active
duty. Driving records remain active in the case of immediate reenlistment, change of officer
component or military and civilian retirement or when continued access to an installation is
authorized. Retain or destroy according to AFI 33-364 records on civilian personnel who are
terminating on-base employment.
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                             27


                                      Attachment 3
   REFERENCE SHEET FOR OKLAHOMA STATE AND US CODE VIOLATIONS

Statute               Offense                           Penalty
Driving Offenses
                                                        1st: $100-2,000 a/o 1 year
21 OS § 540 (A)       Eluding a Peace Officer
                                                        2nd: $500-5,000 a/o 1 year
                      Eluding a Peace Officer/
21 OS § 540 (B)                                         $1,000-5,000 a/o 1-5 years
                      Endangering Others
                                                        No Handgun License: $50-500 a/o 10
                      Carry/Use of Firearm while        days-6 months
21 OS § 1289.9
                      Intoxicated                       Handgun License: $50 administrative
                                                        fine License Suspension for 6 months
21 OS § 1289.13       Transporting a loaded Firearm     $50-500 a/o 10 days-6 months
                                                        $100-500 a/o up to 6 months and
47 OS § 761           Driving While Impaired
                                                        suspension
47 OS § 1151 (A)(2)   Altering License/Decal/Title      Up to $500
                      Driving Without Updated
47 OS § 1151 (A)(5)                                     Up to $500
                      License/Decal/Tax
                      Driving Without a Current
47 OS § 1151 (A)(9)                                     Up to $500
                      License Plate
47 OS § 6-101         DL Expired (See Note 1)           $50-300 a/o up to 30-days
                      DL Not in Possession when         $5-500 or up to 10 days
47 OS § 6-112
                      Driving (See Note 2)              (See Note 3)
47 OS § 6-113         Violating DL Restriction          $5-500 or up to 10 days
                                                        $100-500 a/o up to 1 year
47 OS § 6-303 (8)     Driving w/Suspended DL
                                                        (See Note 4)
                      Failure to Remain at Scene
47 OS § 10-103                                          Up to $500 a/o up to 1 year
                      w/Vehicle Damage
                      Failure to Notify Owner After
47 OS § 10-105                                          $5-500 or up to 10 days
                      Damaging Unattended Vehicle
                      Failure to Report Damage to
47 OS § 10-106                                          Up to $500 a/o up to 1 year
                      Highway Fixtures
47 OS § 10-112        Giving a False Report             Up to $500 a/o up to 1 year
47 OS § 11-103        Failure to Obey Officer           $5-500 or up to 10 days
                      Failure to Obey Traffic control
47 OS § 11-201                                          $5-500 or up to 10 days
                      Devices
47 OS § 11-303        Improper passing                  $5-500 or up to 10 days
 28                                                     VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


Statute                Offense                               Penalty
Driving Offenses
47 OS § 11-208         Wrong Way                             $5-500 or up to 10 days
47 OS § 11-309         Driving Improperly in Lane            $5-500 or up to 10 days
47 OS § 11-310         Following Too Closely                 $5-500 or up to 10 days
47 OS § 11-401         Failure to Yield Right of Way         $5-500 or up to 10 days
                       Failure to Yield at Stop or Yield
47 OS § 11-403                                               $5-500 or up to 10 days
                       Intersection
                       Failure to Yield When Entering
47 OS § 11-404                                               $5-500 or up to 10 days
                       Highway
                       Failure to Exercise Due Care
47 OS § 11-502                                               $5-500 or up to 10 days
                       w/Pedestrians
                       Failure to Yield to a Pedestrian at
47 OS § 11-504                                               $5-500 or up to 10 days
                       a Cross Walk
47 OS § 11-604         Improper Signal                       $5-500 or up to 10 days
                                                             1st- $100-500 a/o 5-90 days
47 OS § 11-901         Reckless Driving
                                                             2nd- $150-1,000 a/o 10 days-5 months
                                                             $10-$205 a/o
                                                             1st: up to 10 days
47 OS § 11-801 (B)     Speeding
                                                             2nd w/in 1 yr of 1st: up to 20 days
                                                             3rd w/in 1 yr of 1st: up to 6 months
47 OS § 11-902         Intoxicated Driving                   1st- up to $1,000 and 10 days to 1 year
47 OS § 11-1003        Improper Stopping/Parking             $5-500 or up to 10 days
47 OS § 11-1102        Improper Backing                      $5-500 or up to 10 days
Offences Against the Peace
21 Os § 649 (A)        Assault of an Officer                 Up to $500 a/o up to 1 year
                       Attempt to Prevent Performance        Up to $500 a/o up to 1 year
21 Os § 267
                       of Executive Duty                     (See Note 5)
                       Resistance to Officer's
21 Os § 268                                                  Up to $500 a/o up to 1 year
                       Performance of Duty
                       Injuring or Taking Property from
21 Os § 522                                                  Up to $500 a/o up to 1 year
                       Officer
21 Os § 540            Obstruction of Public Officer         Up to $500 a/o up to 1 year
                       Mistreating/Injuring Police
21 Os § 649.1                                                Up to $500 a/o up to 1 year
                       Dog/Horse
21 Os § 649.2          Killing Police Dog/Horse              Up to $500 a/o up to 1 year
                                                             Up to $1,000 a/o up to 1 year
21 Os § 1272           Carrying a Weapon
                                                             1st: 100-250 a/o up to 30-days
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                                                              29


Statute                Offense                           Penalty
                                                         2nd: $250-$500 a/o 30-days-3 months
                                                         License: $50 administrative fine and
                                                         6-month suspension (See Note 6)
Offences Against the Peace
21 OS § 1289.13        Transporting a Loaded Weapon      $50-500 a/o 10 Days-6 months
21 OS § 1362           Disturbing the Peace              Up to $100 a/o up to 30-days
                                                         Up to $5,000 a/o up to 1 year
21 OS § 1171           Peeping Tom                       Photographs/electronic recording:
                                                         Up to $5,000 a/o up to 5 years
21 OS § 1319           Resisting Legal Process           Up to $1,000 a/o up to 1 year
                       Obtaining ($500 or less)
21 OS § 1541.1         Property through Deceit or        Up to $1,000 a/o up to 1 year
                       Fraud
                                                         Up to $1,000 a/o upon conviction,
                       Littering on Highways, Roads      sentenced to perform 5-20 hours of
21 OS § 1753.3
                       or Public Property                community service for little abatement
                                                         program
                                                         For property worth more than $1,000:
                                                         Fine a/o up to 10 years
18 USC § 1361          Injuring Government Property
                                                         For property worth less than $1,000:
                                                         Fine a/o up to 1 year
18 USC § 1382          Trespassing on a Military Base    Up to $5,000 a/o up to 6 months
Drug Offenses
21 OS § 1215           Possession of Alcohol by Minor    Up to $100 a/o up to 30 days

21 OS § 1220           Open container for less than
                                                         Up to $500 a/o up to 6 months
                       3.2% alcohol
                       Public Drunk/Consumption in a
37 OS § 8                                                $10-100 a/o 5-30-days
                       Public Place
                       Open container for greater than
37 OS § 537(A)(7)                                        Up to $500 a/o up to 6 months
                       3.2% alcohol
                       Sale/Deliver/Furnish Alcohol to
37 OS § 537(A)(2)                                        Up to $500 a/o up to 6 months
                       Intoxicated Person
63 OS § 2-405          Possession of Paraphernalia       Up to $1,000 a/o up to 1 year
                       Possession of Controlled
21 USC § 844(a)                                          Minimum of $1,000 a/o up to 1 year
                       Substances
                       Conspiracy to Possess a
21 USC § 846                                             Minimum of $1,000 a/o up to 1 year
                       Controlled Substance
NOTES:
 30                                                       VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013


1. 47 OS § 6-303(A): Any person charged with violating this section who produces in court, on
or before the court date, a renewal or replacement driver's license issued to him or her shall be
entitled to dismissal of such charge without payment of court costs and fine.
2. 47 OS § 6-112(8): Any person charged with violating this section who produces in court, on
or before the court date, a driver's license issued to him or her and valid at the time of his or
arrest shall be entitled to dismissal of such charge without payment of court costs and fine.
3. See 47 OS § 17-101 for penalties of subsequent convictions.
4. See statute for penalties of subsequent convictions.
5. As stated in 21 OS § 10 (general punishment for a misdemeanor).
6. 21 OS § 1276.
7. 37 OS § 566.

Current as of July 2012
VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013                            31


                                Attachment 4
            TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF DRIVING PRIVILEGES
32   VANCEAFBI31-204 10 APRIL 2013
