BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 VANCE AFB INSTRUCTION 48-102
71ST FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)
                                                                           14 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                         OCCUPATIONAL EXPOSURE TO
                                                     BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS (BBP) OR
                                                      OTHER POTENTIALLY INFECTIOUS
                                                       MATERIAL (OPIM) CONTROL PLAN

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               https://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 MDOS/SGOQP                                                    Certified by: 71 MDG/CC
                                                                     (Colonel Douglas B. Curry)
Supersedes:    VANCEAFBI 48-102,                                                        Pages: 9
               1 Jun 2009


This instruction establishes requirements and procedures to comply with the Occupational Health
and Safety Administration (OSHA) directives on occupational exposure to BBP. It applies to
units assigned to or tenants on Vance Air Force Base where personnel are actually or potentially
exposed to blood and other potentially infectious materials during the performance of duties. It
also applies to all Department of Defense employees - military, civilian, and volunteers. This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) Units, Air National Guard
(ANG) or Civil Air Patrol (CAP). This publication requires the collection and/or maintenance of
information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974. The authorities to collect and/or
maintain the records prescribed in this publication are 10 U.S.C. 55, Medical and Dental Care;
10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; System of Records Notice F044 AF SG R, Report of
Medical Conditions of Public Health and Military Significance; and E.O. 9397 (SSN). Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed
of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air
Force         Records          Disposition        Schedule         (RDS)          located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
VAFB Publications and Forms Manager. (AF Form 847 is described in AFI 11-215, USAF
Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the form).
 2                                                      VANCEAFBI48-102 14 December 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction is revised to include updated references and grammatical changes.
1. Definitions:
     1.1. Blood:   Human blood, human blood components, and products made from human
     blood.
     1.2. BBP: Disease causing/pathogenic microorganisms that are present in human blood
     and/or other potentially infectious material that can cause disease in humans. These
     pathogens include, but are not limited to: Hepatitis B Virus (HBV), Hepatitis C Virus (HCV)
     and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV).
     1.3. OPIM: Include semen, vaginal secretions, cerebrospinal fluid, synovial, pleural fluid,
     pericardial fluid, peritoneal fluid, amniotic fluid, saliva, and any body fluid contaminated
     with blood, all body fluids in situations where it is difficult or impossible to differentiate
     between body fluids and/or any organ (other than intact skin) from human (living or dead).
     1.4. Exposure incident: A specific eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin
     (skin with cuts, abrasions, chafing, dermatitis, hang nails, etc.) contact with blood or OPIM
     that results from the performance of an employee’s duties. Includes any incident where a
     potentially contaminated item (e.g., knife, scalpel, and needle) penetrates the skin or human
     bites.
     1.5. Occupational exposure: Reasonably anticipated skin, eye, mucous membrane, or
     parenteral contact with potentially infectious material that may result from the performance
     of an employee’s duties.
     1.6. Parenteral: Piercing of the mucous membrane or skin barrier through such events as
     needlesticks, human bites, cuts, abrasions or via sharp objects.
     1.7. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE): Specialized clothing or equipment worn by an
     employee for protection against a hazard. General work clothes (e.g., uniforms, pants, shirts
     or blouses) not intended to function as protection against a hazard are not considered PPE.
     1.8. Regulated waste: Liquid or semi-liquid blood or potentially infectious materials;
     contaminated items that would release blood or OPIM in a liquid/semi-liquid state if
     compressed; items caked with dried blood or OPIM and capable of releasing these materials
     during handling; or contaminated sharps.
     1.9. Source individual: Any individual alive or dead, whose blood or OPIM may be a source
     of occupational exposure to an employee.
2. Responsibilities:
     2.1. Section supervisors whose personnel may be exposed to BBP and OPIM while
     performing their duties will:
        2.1.1. Ensure employees with potential exposure receive initial training at the time of
        initial assignment to tasks where occupational exposure may take place and annually
        thereafter. NOTE: All personnel whose jobs specifically require them to administer
        cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) or first aid as part of their job must receive BBP
        training.
VANCEAFBI48-102 14 December 2011                                                              3


      2.1.2. Ensure all necessary personal protective equipment (PPE), in the proper sizes, is
      readily accessible to assigned personnel. PPE includes gloves, gowns, masks, goggles,
      and face shields. Impervious material gowns and aprons are needed to protect skin and
      clothing from gross contamination.
      2.1.3. Provide PPE to the workers at no cost.
      2.1.4. Assign a trainer to train assigned personnel on tasks/duties in which exposure to
      BBP or OPIM is likely, the required work practices to be followed and PPE to be worn to
      prevent/minimize exposure. Training must be provided upon assignment and annually
      thereafter.
      2.1.5. Document training on individual’s AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health
      Record.
      2.1.6. Contact Public Health to investigate exposure incidents. The Public Health
      consultant will provide medical recommendations and treatment follow-up and/or other
      medical recommendations.
      2.1.7. Enforce employee compliance with required practices and use of PPE.
   2.2. Ensure potentially exposed personnel will comply with precautions outlined by Centers
   for Disease Control (CDC) and OSHA standards to prevent exposure to BBP and OPIM.
   2.3. Ensure exposed individuals notify their immediate supervisor of the accident and report
   immediately to the 71 MDG clinic for evaluation and follow up.
3. PPE Usage:
   3.1. PPE is mandatory in all instances when exposure to BBP or OPIM is possible. In
   extraordinary, life-threatening circumstances, the use of PPE may not be practical. In all
   situations, document exposure and report to Public Health after flushing exposed area(s) with
   water.
   3.2. Disposable gloves are worn when bodily fluids are handled. Change between
   procedures or when barrier is broken. Hands are to be washed prior to and after removal of
   gloves.
   3.3. Heavy-duty industrial grade gloves are worn when handling trash or decontaminating
   equipment. When the barrier is broken, remove gloves and wash hands prior to putting on
   new gloves.
   3.4. Wear protective eyewear (mask/goggles/face shield) when exposure to the eyes is
   anticipated. PPE must prevent peripheral exposure. Shared PPE must be disinfected
   between uses (see item 3.11 below).
   3.5. Wear shoe covers/rubber boots when gross contamination is likely.
   3.6. Wear fluid resistant hair covering (i.e., DuPont Bouffant Caps available through 71
   MDG Infection Control) when aerosol or splattering contamination can occur.
   3.7. If available, use resuscitation equipment (pocket masks) to prevent direct mouth-to-
   mouth contact.
   3.8. Remove all PPE before moving to a ―clean‖ area.
 4                                                      VANCEAFBI48-102 14 December 2011


     3.9. Place contaminated PPE into appropriate containers for disposal. Gloves are required
     when these items are handled.
     3.10. All PPE will be readily accessible in the work area.
     3.11. Gloves will be worn when reusable items are decontaminated. Wash in hot soapy
     water, rinse in clean water and soak for 1 minute in 1:10 dilution of bleach and water.
4. Disposal of PPE:
     4.1. PPE saturated with blood or body fluids will be placed into biohazard bags.
     4.2. PPE or other items contaminated with small amounts of blood or other body fluids are
     disposed of as routine regulated medical waste.
5. Requirements for the Exposure Control Plan (ECP):
     5.1. Units requiring an ECP, at a minimum, will include the following:
        5.1.1. Exposure determination by employee category or AFSC.
        5.1.2. Methods of compliance to include work practices and minimum PPE required.
        5.1.3. Requirement for Hepatitis B vaccination and post-exposure evaluation/follow-up.
        5.1.4. Record keeping.
        5.1.5. Procedures for evaluating exposure incidents.
        5.1.6. Public Health and/or Infection Control Officer is available for consultation and/or
        review of ECP.
6. Training:
     6.1. Unit training personnel will be responsible for training personnel on BBP in their
     organization upon initial assignment as required and annually thereafter.
     6.2. Training shall be provided to the employee at the time of initial assignment to tasks
     where occupational exposures may take place and annually thereafter.
     6.3. Additional training shall be provided when changes to tasks or procedures occur. The
     additional training can be limited to addressing the new exposures.
     6.4. Material appropriate in content and vocabulary to educational level, literacy and
     language of employees shall be used.
     6.5. Training will include as a minimum the following:
        6.5.1. An accessible copy of the 29 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 1910.1030,
        Bloodborne Pathogens, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
        Instruction 2.103, Field Inspection Reference Manual, and an explanation of its contents.
        6.5.2. A general explanation of the epidemiology, symptoms, and modes of transmission
        of BBP and disease.
        6.5.3. An explanation of the transmission of bloodborne diseases.
        6.5.4. An explanation of the unit ECP and how to obtain a copy.
VANCEAFBI48-102 14 December 2011                                                               5


      6.5.5. An explanation of appropriate methods for recognizing tasks and other activities
      that may involve exposure to blood or OPIM.
      6.5.6. An explanation of the use and limitations of methods that will prevent or reduce
      exposure including appropriate engineering controls, work practices and PPE.
      6.5.7. Information on the types, use, location, removal, handling, decontamination, and
      disposal of PPE.
      6.5.8. An explanation of the basis of selecting PPE.
      6.5.9. Information on Hepatitis B vaccine including its use, safety and efficacy.
      6.5.10. Information on the appropriate actions and points of contact in an emergency
      involving blood or other infectious material.
      6.5.11. An explanation of procedures to follow if an exposure accident occurs.
      6.5.12. Information on the required post-exposure evaluation and follow-up procedures.
      6.5.13. An explanation of signs, labels, and or color-coding required for blood and
      OPIM.
      6.5.14. An opportunity for interactive questions and answers.
   6.6. Public Health will provide and act as a resource for training material and information
   regarding PPE.
7. RecordKeeping:
   7.1. All records/documents pursuant to this program (i.e., medical, training documents, AF
   IMT 55) will be maintained IAW AF RDS and AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and
   Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health (AFOSH) Program. Personnel medical
   records will be kept IAW AFI 41-210, Patient Administration Functions, and OSHA
   requirements.
   7.2. Training will be documented on an AF IMT 55 and maintained in OJT records.
   7.3. Contractor training is maintained in QMIS and administered by contractor quality
   management personnel.
   7.4. The section supervisor will maintain training records for three years from the date on
   which the training occurred.
8. Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) Vaccination:
   8.1. All active duty personnel are now being vaccinated against Hepatitis A and B. NOTE:
   There are still individuals who have not been vaccinated against Hepatitis A/B. Each
   exposure requires review of individual immunization history to assess risks.
   8.2. All 71 MDG GS civilian or 71 MDG contracted employees (excluding contracted
   custodians) shall receive the vaccination as a condition of employment.
   8.3. 71 MDG non-GS civilian personnel considered at risk may refuse the vaccine, but must
   sign a declination statement.
 6                                                     VANCEAFBI48-102 14 December 2011


9. Contingency Operations: Units requiring an ECP will establish contingency procedures for
clean up of spilled blood in the work place. Procedures should include the use of protective
gloves and a diluted bleach solution of 1:10 (bleach-water).
10. Standard Precautions: Practices shall be observed to prevent contact with blood or OPIM,
to include the use of barriers between the patient’s bodily fluids and the health care worker.
Barriers generally include the use of PPE.
     10.1. Engineering Controls: Controls that isolate or remove the BBP hazard from the
     workplace (e.g., sharps disposal containers and self-sheathing needles).
     10.2. Puncture resistant, leak-proof waste receptacles are used for disposal of regulated
     medical waste.
     10.3. Work Practice Controls. Prevention of exposure will consist primarily of the following
     work practice methods/controls:
        10.3.1. Personal hygiene, to include hand washing.
        10.3.2. Standard precautions as described in the Bloodborne Pathogens in Healthcare
        Settings and Infection Control in Healthcare Settings, Centers for Disease Control and
        Prevention (CDC).
        10.3.3. Sanitizing or disposal procedures for contaminated equipment, clothing, and
        supplies.
        10.3.4. Procedures following an emergency response or in case of an exposure to BBP or
        OPIM.
     10.4. Specimen Transport: Place the specimen into a leak-proof biohazard labeled container.
     Before servicing or shipping, examine equipment for potential contamination and
     decontaminate as necessary.
11. “Off Limit” Areas: Areas with gross blood spills are placed off limits until the area can be
thoroughly cleaned. Wear PPE to protect eyes, skin, clothing, shoes, etc., from contamination.
Clean up potentially contaminated broken glass with a brush, broom, dustpan, tongs, etc. Do not
use your hands.
12. Laundry Disposal: Contaminated laundry should be handled as little as possible. Bag
contaminated linen(s) in the work area until delivery to Medical Logistics. Do not rinse or sort
the laundry. If saturated and dripping wet, place into leak-proof bags and label. Wear gloves
when handling dirty laundry. Contaminated linens are brought from Billeting for disposal with
71 MDG contaminated waste.
13. Good Hand washing Techniques: Hand washing is considered one of the most important
work practices that may prevent infection.
     13.1. Hand washing consists of the following procedures:
        13.1.1. Personnel will wash their hands after any possible contact with blood or OPIM
        when handling contaminated objects and upon removal of protective gloves.
        13.1.2. Personnel shall clean their hands in a lavatory that is properly equipped with
        warm, running water, soap and single-use paper towels (no multi-use towels).
VANCEAFBI48-102 14 December 2011                                                               7


     13.1.3. When washing hands with soap and water, first wet hands with water, apply an
     amount of soap product recommended by the manufacturer to hands, and rub hands
     together vigorously for at least 15 seconds, covering all surfaces of the hands and fingers.
     Rinse hands with water and dry thoroughly with a disposable towel. Use towel to turn
     off faucet and if possible, to open the door. Avoid using hot water, because repeated
     exposure to hot water may increase the risk of dermatitis.
     13.1.4. Antiseptic towelettes or alcohol-based hand sanitizers can be used as a
     supplement to hand washing, but not as a replacement.




                                           RUSSELL L. MACK, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
 8                                                   VANCEAFBI48-102 14 December 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
29 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Part 1910.1030, Bloodborne Pathogens, Occupational
Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) Instruction 2.103, Field Inspection Reference Manual
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program
AFI 44-108, Infection Control Program
Bloodborne Pathogens in Healthcare Settings and Infection Control in Healthcare Settings,
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
Recommendations for Preventing Transmission of Human Immunodeficiency Virus – Hepatitis
B Virus to Patients During Exposure-Prone Invasive Procedures. MMWR 40, 1991
Control of Communicable Diseases in Man – current edition
Prescribed Forms
There are no prescribed forms in the publication.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF IMT 55, Employee Safety and Health Record

Abbreviations and Acronyms
71 MDG—71st Medical Group
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRC—Air Force Reserve Command
ANG—Air National Guard
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFSC—Air Force Specialty Code
BBP—Bloodborne Pathogens
CAP—Civil Air Patrol
CDC—Centers for Disease Control
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
CPR—Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation
VANCEAFBI48-102 14 December 2011                     9


ECP—Exposure Control Plan
FMP—Flight Manuals Program
GS—Government Service
HBV—Hepatitis B Virus
HCV—Hepatitis C Virus
HIV—Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IAW—In Accordance With
MMWR—Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report
OJT—On the Job Training
OPIM—Other Potentially Infectious Material
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Health and Safety Administration
PA—Privacy Act
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
QMIS—Quality Management Information System
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SSN—Social Security Number
