BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                         VANCE AIR FORCE BASE
HQ 71ST FLYING TRAINING WING                                         INSTRUCTION 10-300
(AETC)
                                                                         22 FEBRUARY 2010

                                                                                   Operations

                                                        INSTALLATION AUGMENTATION
                                                                         PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               https://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 FTW/CCC                                                      Certified by: 71 FTW/CV
                                                                     (Col Richard M. Murphy)
                                                                                      Pages: 11


This instruction implements the Vance Air Force Base Augmentation Program in accordance
with Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 10-2 Readiness, 30 October 2006. It applies to all units
assigned, attached, or associated with the 71st Flying Training Wing (FTW). Ensure that all
records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed
of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Air
Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm. Refer recommended changes and questions about this
publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
VAFB Publications and Forms Manager. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF
Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the form.)

1. Mission:
   1.1. The Vance Air Force Base Installation Augmentation Program (IAP) outlines the
   quotas, training, duties, and responsibilities for 71 FTW units in preparing Vance Air Force
   Base for installation-level exercises, contingencies, wartime, or emergency situations.
2. Responsibilities:
   2.1. The 71 FTW/CC will determine if an installation augmentation program is required. If
   a program is required, direct an Augmentation Review Board (ARB) to convene, at a
   minimum, annually to validate and approve the need for additional personnel resources to
   support the 71st Security Forces Squadron (SFS), Readiness Support Team (RST), and Silver
2                                                  VANCEAFBI10-300 22 FEBRUARY 2010


    Talon Honor Guard (STHG). The ARB may be convened ―off-cycle‖ if requested by the 71
    FTW/CC or 71 FTW/CV in order to meet changing requirements for the base. The ARB will
    consist of the Chairperson (71 FTW/CV), as appointed by FTW/CC, group commanders,
    FTW/CCC, and wing IAP manager. The chairperson may appoint additional advisors to
    attend the ARB as required.
    2.2. The ARB Chairperson will:
       2.2.1. Oversee management of the IAP.
       2.2.2. Appoint a Wing IAP Manager to monitor manning, training and execution. (Note:
       The 71 FSS/FSM Flight Chief should be considered for this position, but not required.)
       2.2.3. Establish support quotas for 71 FTW units.
       2.2.4. Task each group to fill validated positions with E-1 – E-6 personnel from within
       their group based on the quotas assigned during the ARB meeting.
       2.2.5. Direct the ARB and working groups as required.
       2.2.6. Approve the procedures for tasking, tracking, and training of augmentees. IAP
       tasking will be managed at the group (or equivalent) level to sustain maximum flexibility.
       Wing Staff agencies are considered as a separate ―group‖.
       2.2.7. The ARB is the final approval authority for augmentation taskings, which are
       listed as appendices to the instruction. As such, the ARB Chairperson will certify all
       appendices to this instruction after approval by the ARB. Appendices must be recertified
       after any change to its content. Recertifying any one appendix does not invalidate any
       other appendix or this instruction.
    2.3. The Wing IAP Manager will:
       2.3.1. Conduct day-to-day management of the Installation Augmentation Program,
       standardize and evaluate the program, track completed training, compile the ARB agenda
       and provide administrative support to the ARB and augmentation working group.
       2.3.2. Validate requirements and wing manpower strength report for the ARB and
       working group meeting.
    2.4. The Working Groups will:
       2.4.1. Will consist of Command Chief, Group Chiefs, SF, STHG, and RST augmented
       program managers, and installation program manager.
       2.4.2. Will meet as many times as necessary to ensure the ARB receives all inputs.
3. How Squadrons are Tasked
    3.1. Squadrons are tasked by the ARB.
       3.1.1. Establishing a need for augmentation. If a squadron determines that it needs
       augmentation to complete its mission, a request must be made through the respective
       group commander to the Working Group to the ARB. The request must include, as a
       minimum, the number of augmentees required, and justification for augmentation,
       individual requirements/limitations, environmental factors, required equipment, required
       training and duty description.
VANCEAFBI10-300 22 FEBRUARY 2010                                                                 3


      3.1.2. The ARB tasks the wing. Based on recommendations from the augmentation
      working group, the ARB approves the ―fair-share‖ distribution of quotas for each group.
      The ARB may accept recommendations from the augmentation working group, reject
      portions or change them as deemed appropriate. The decision of the ARB with regard to
      the number of augmented positions and augmenting unit assignments is final until the
      next ARB is convened.
      3.1.3. The IAP Manager implements ARB taskings. Once the ARB approves the
      augmentation taskings, the IAP Manager will notify the affected units (both supported
      and supporting).
4. Responsibilies of the Augmenting (Supporting) Units
   4.1. Appointment/Removal.
      4.1.1. The Group Augmentation Coordinators are responsible for ensuring individual are
      appointed in writing and that sufficient augmentees to appointed to meet group quotas
      and sustain the IAP. Appointment letters are due to the Wing IAP Manager no later than
      2 weeks after the ARB.
      4.1.2. Appointment letters must contain, at a minimum, the augmentee’s full name, unit
      and office symbol, duty phone, home phone, and home address. Coordinators will also
      add security clearance if the augmentation duty requires a clearance. An example
      appointment letter can be found at Attachment 3.
      4.1.3. When an augmentee is projected for removal from the Wing IAP, the squadron
      commander or agency chief will ensure a removal letter is sent to the Wing IAP Manager.
      The removal letter will include information for the member’s replacement listed in
      paragraph
      4.1.4. Additionally, the letter will include the effective date of the removal, which will be
      no earlier than 90 days after receipt of the letter by the Wing IAP Manager. The Wing
      IAP Manager will advise supporting unit(s) and suspense training. An example removal
      letter can be found at Attachment 4.
   4.2. Ensuring Training. Commanders or their designated representatives are responsible for
   ensuring their augmentees attend scheduled augmentation training. When notified of
   required training, squadron commanders and agency chiefs will coordinate with the
   augmentee’s supervisor and make them available. If the augmentee cannot make the
   scheduled training for any reason, the squadron or agency will inform the supported unit and
   arrange for an alternate training date within a reasonable time period to meet para 5.2.2.
5. Responsibilities of the Augmented (Supported) Unit
   5.1. Identifying Need for Augmentees.
      5.1.1. Group Commanders (or equivalent) receives requests from their squadron
      commanders (or agency chiefs) if there is a need for new or additional requirements.
      Wing IAP manger validates new requirements for the Group Commanders, and sends
      new requirements with validation supporting documentation to the Working Group
      chairperson (71 FTW/CCC) to be added to next meeting agenda, where recommendations
      for the ARB will be prepared.
4                                                  VANCEAFBI10-300 22 FEBRUARY 2010


    5.2. Training Program.
       5.2.1. Augmentation Program Managers (APM) will develop a training program
       sufficient to train and sustain augmentees for their supported mission.
       5.2.2. Augmentees will be trained within 45 days after appointment. If training cannot
       be accomplished within time constraints, the Wing IAP Manager must be notified. The
       notification must include an estimated training completion date.
       5.2.3. Augmentation Program Managers are responsible for scheduling required training,
       and notify the member and the group IAP representative. The augmentees unit
       commanders (or agency chiefs) will ensure augmentees attend the training.
       5.2.4. Augmentation program managers are responsible for notifying the Wing IAP
       Manager if a member fails to attend training (no-show). If failure to attend training will
       delay the training process and the member is past 45 days before completing training, the
       Wing IAP Manager will notify the supported and supporting group commanders.
6. Augmentee Call Up
    6.1. Request to activate 71 FTW IAP is made by the supported unit commander through the
    71 MSG/CC to the 71 FTW/CC or 71 FTW/CV.
    6.2. The 71 FTW/CC, 71 FTW/CV, or designated authority (dual absents) are the only
    personnel authorized to call up augmentees.
6.3. Recall is performed as follows:
    6.3.1. CAT is activated and UCCs stood up. (Attachment 5)
           6.3.1.1. 71 FTW/CC or 71 FTW/CV directs CAT recorder to log IAP recall action
           into Defense Communication Online (DCO).
           6.3.1.2. Command Post sends out a base-wide NAS announcing IAP recall.
           6.3.1.3. Command Post will use TAS to notify group/sq CCs, group IAP reps and
           augmentees.
           6.3.1.4. UCCs notify Group IAP Representatives and augmentees.
           6.3.1.5. Group IAP Representatives coordinate recall status with supported unit APM
           6.3.1.6. Group IAP Representatives updates Group/CC and augmentees primary
           supervisory of status of their recalled augmentees
           6.3.1.7. Supported unit APM provides periodic updates to CAT recorder. CAT
           recorder updates recall status in DCO.
           6.3.1.8. Command post will send out base-wide NAS announcing IAP recall
           completion.
    6.3.2. CAT is NOT activated (Attachment 6)
           6.3.2.1. 71 FTW/CC or 71 FTW/CV directs Command Post to send out TAS to recall
           augmentees, notify Group/ sq CCs and group IAP reps.
       6.3.2.2.   Command Post sends out a base-wide NAS announcing IAP recall.
VANCEAFBI10-300 22 FEBRUARY 2010                                                             5


          6.3.2.3. Group IAP Representatives coordinate recall status with supported unit APM
          6.3.2.4. Group IAP Representatives updates Group/CC and augmentees primary
          supervisory of status of their recalled augmentees.
          6.3.2.5. Supported unit APM reports status/completion to Command Post
          6.3.2.6. Command Post sends out a base-wide NAS to report IAP recall completion.
   6.4. Once notified, augmentees report as soon as possible to designate location, equipped
   and prepared for augmentation duty.
7. Augmentee Eligibility Requirements
   7.1. All personnel, E-6 and below, assigned to the 71 FTW are eligible for augmentation
   duty. The ARB retains the right to expand the pool of eligible at anytime, based on unique
   requirements. Furthermore, tenant squadrons may allow members to volunteer for
   augmentation duty, but will not be tasked based on this instruction.
   7.2. The base resource pool will be determined by comparing authorized funded positions to
   actually assigned personnel.
8. Exemptions
   8.1. Exemptions will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis by ARB. If ARB establishes
   approved exemptions, these personnel will be removed from the eligibility pool. Exceptions
   will be presented to the ARB with justification for approval based upon mission requirements
   not merely instructional provision.
   8.2. Exceptions will be revalidated annually. Once a position is identified as ―exempt‖ from
   the resource pool, that position will not be utilized for any augmentation duty unless the
   reason for the exemption no longer applies.
   8.3. After exemptions are approved and the available base resource pool is finalized,
   distribution of ―fair-share‖ quotas will be even across all the groups.
9. Forms Prescribed: None
10. Forms Adopted: AF Form 847, Recommendation of Change Publication




                                           MARK C. NOWLAND, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
6                                        VANCEAFBI10-300 22 FEBRUARY 2010


                                 Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Acronyms and Abbreviations
APM— Augmentation Program Manager
ARB— Augmentation Review Board
CAT— Crisis Action Team
DCO— Defense Communication On-Line
FTW— Fighter Training Wing
NAS— Network Alert System
RST— Readiness Support Team
SFS— Security Forces Squadron
STHG— Silver Talon Honor Guard
TAS— Telephone Alert System
UCC— Unit Control Center
VANCEAFBI10-300 22 FEBRUARY 2010                                                              7


                                        Attachment 2
     EXAMPLE GROUP COMMANDER DESIGNATED APPOINTMENT LETTER

                                                                                    <<Date>>

MEMORANDUM FOR 71 FTW IAP PROGRAM MANAGER

FROM: <<Augmenting Group>>/CC

SUBJECT: Group IAP Representative Appointment

The following individual is appointed as my representative for the <<identify group>> effective
<<date>>.

       Rank           Name          Sq/Off Sym                    Duty Phone

(Primary)

(Alternate)



                                                          <<Group Commander>>
8                                                 VANCEAFBI10-300 22 FEBRUARY 2010


                                        Attachment 3
            EXAMPLE AUGMENTATION DUTY APPOINTMENT LETTER

                                                                                     <<Date>>

MEMORANDUM FOR <<Augmented Squadron>>/CC

FROM: <<Augmenting Squadron>>/CC

SUBJECT: Augmentation Duty Appointment

1. The following individuals have been designated as augmentees for the <<identify
augmentation team (SFS, RST, or STHG):

Rank        Name           Sec Clearance       Sq/Off Sym      Duty Phone        Home Phone
                           (if needed)



2. Please contact by point of contact, <<identify POC>>, at ext. <<duty phone>> to schedule
any required training.




                                                       <<Squadron Commander>>


cc: 71 IAP Program Manager
VANCEAFBI10-300 22 FEBRUARY 2010                                                            9


                                         Attachment 4
               EXAMPLE AUGMENTATION DUTY REMOVAL LETTER

                                                                                  <<Date>>

MEMORANDUM FOR <<Augmented Squadron>>/CC

FROM: <<Augmenting Unit>>/CC

SUBJECT: Augmentation Duty Removal

1. Please remove the following individual from the <<identify augmentation team (SFS, RST, or
STHG)>> effective <<date must be NET 45 days>>:

Rank         Name                 Squadron/Office Symbol


2. Please replace the above individual with the following person:

Rank        Name            Sec Clearance       Sq/Off Sym          Duty Phone   Home Phone
                            (if needed)




3. Please contact my point of contact, <<identify POC>>, at ext. <<duty phone>> to schedule
any required training.




                                                            <<Squadron Commander>>



cc: 71 IAP program Manager
10                                   VANCEAFBI10-300 22 FEBRUARY 2010


                             Attachment 5
                         IAP TEAM RECALL

                        (If CAT is Activated)


                    Wing CC or CV

                    CAT Recorder



                  UCC
                                             Command Post


                   Augmentees               Initiates recall with
         NOTIFY




                                                 NAS/TAS
                   Group IAP
                     Reps                    Concludes recall
                                               with NAS
        Call Augmentees
        & Monitors status

     Notify Group CC and Supervisor
             of recall status


         Supported APM reports status to CAT
                     Recorder
VANCEAFBI10-300 22 FEBRUARY 2010                                   11


                                 Attachment 6
                              IAP TEAM RECALL

                          (If CAT is NOT Activated)


                           Wing CC or CV

                           Command Post


                          Augmentees            Initiates recall
                 NOTIFY




                                                with NAS/TAS
                          Group IAP
                            Reps                Concludes recall
                                                  with NAS
               Call Augmentees &
                Monitors status

          Notify Group CC and Supervisor of
                     recall status


         Supported APM reports status to Command Post
