BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         VANCE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
71ST FLYING TRAINING WING (AETC)                                             48-103

                                                                            6 DECEMBER 2011

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                 OCCUPATIONAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                                 HEALTH PROGRAM

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 MDOS/SGOAP                                                    Certified by: 71 MDG/CC
                                                                     (Colonel Douglas B. Curry)
Supersedes:    VAFBI 48-103,                                                            Pages: 8
               19 December 2008


This instruction establishes procedures to govern implementation of medical support
requirements of the Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and
Health (AFOSH) Program (AFI 91-301) throughout the Air Force at home station and during
deployed operations. It applies to all Air Force personnel (at classified and unclassified
locations). This instruction does not apply to employees working under government contract or
private contractors performing work under government contracts. Contractors are solely
responsible for compliance with Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
standards and the protection of their employees unless otherwise specified in their contract. This
AFI does not prohibit providing workplace sampling and survey information to contractors based
on local arrangements. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 55, 10 U.S.C. 8013, 29 CFR 1960,
and E.O. 9397. System of records notice F044 AF SG E, Medical Records System, applies.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)       Air     Force     Records     Disposition    Schedule     (RDS)       located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change to Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field
through the Vance AFB Publications and Forms Manager. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI
11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling
out the form.)
 2                                                      VANCEAFBI48-103 6 December 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Updated Respiratory Protection Program Teams (Attachment 1) and signature block.
1. General: The occupational and environmental health medical examination (OEHME) is not
a complete health examination. Affected workers will receive only those tests required to detect
possible harmful effects caused by known hazards in the work environment. For example, an
audiogram (hearing test) is required for workers exposed to hazardous noise to detect loss of
hearing.
2. Definition of Terms for OEHME:
     2.1. Industrial and Potentially Hazardous Areas: An occupational area identified by periodic
     survey data as having a possible health threat, such as noise, fumes, etc. These areas are
     listed in Attachment 1.
     2.2. Baseline Examination (Pre-placement): Baseline examinations are performed before
     commencement of a specific job to assess an employee’s ability to perform the job capably
     and safely from a medical perspective. If the individual has already started work, these
     examinations will be completed within 60 days of assignment unless more stringent
     requirements exist.
     2.3. Periodic Examination: Periodic OEHME are accomplished to identify changes in health
     status and may include medical monitoring to detect evidence of unacceptable exposure
     including biological changes indicative of an OEH-related illness or injury.
     2.4. Examination at Termination of Exposure: An OEHME is accomplished upon
     termination of exposure such as Permanent Change of Station (PCS), separation, retirement,
     or transfer to another workplace; if the person is continuing in the same job at the next
     assignment, a termination examination may not be necessary.
     2.5. Out-of-Cycle: An occupational examination given for suspected, accidental exposure,
     or before/after performing special operations.
3. Responsibilities:
     3.1. Force Health Management (FHM) will:
        3.1.1. Work with supervisors, designated unit representatives or individual employees to
        schedule appointments.
        3.1.2. Coordinate with supervisors to maximize completion rates and to minimize impact
        on mission where possible.
        3.1.3. Validate personnel assignments.
        3.1.4. Track completion and maintain records of show/cancellation rates for clinical
        surveillance. Air Force Air Reserve Components’ installations OEHME scheduling,
        reporting, and follow-up is accomplished by the Reserve Medical Unit.
        3.1.5. Communicate results of the OEHME to the worker within timeframes established
        by the AF and/or regulatory requirements.
        3.1.6. Schedule any required follow-ups and monitor until completion.
VANCEAFBI48-103 6 December 2011                                                                3


     3.1.7. Conduct OEHME and document all results in the respective member’s medical
     record.
  3.2. Public Health (PH) will:
     3.2.1. Accomplish all audiograms as part of the occupational health program. After
     exam is completed, PH will enter data into the Personnel Individual Medical Readiness
     (PIMR) database. PH will then educate patient on hearing conservation and follow-up
     process as needed. Audiogram forms (DD Form 2215, Reference Audiogram/2216,
     Hearing Conservation Data) are given to patient to take to a Flight Surgeon for review,
     validation of result, and signature. For tracking purposes, Flight Medicine will ensure PH
     is notified if the patient requires further evaluation. Results from audiologist visits will
     be forwarded to PH along with dispositions given by Chief, Aeromedical Services (SGP).
     Submission of AF Form 2096, Classification/On-the-Job Training Action, is required if
     worker is removed from a potentially hazardous duty due to medical findings.
     3.2.2. Notify member’s supervisor of his/her OEHME status (i.e., completion of, a need
     for a follow-up and/or further evaluation).
     3.2.3. Ensure quality control of all OEHME results.
     3.2.4. Monitor results of OEHME as well as other health information to determine trends
     within workplaces.
     3.2.5. Provide occupational and environmental health education and protective device
     training to employees working in designated occupational health risk areas.
     3.2.6. Brief occupational health exam compliance rate and any adverse trends to the base
     Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH).
  3.3. Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) will:
     3.3.1. Conduct surveys of all industrial and potentially hazardous areas (where active
     duty military or DoD civilian employees work) to determine adequacy of control
     procedures and recommend preventive or precautionary measures to minimize exposure.
     3.3.2. Conduct special surveys of operations or work areas when the examining
     physician feels the working environment is a factor contributing to a patient’s condition.
     3.3.3. Designate work areas and occupations that are in a potentially hazardous area and
     inform the respective commander and PH.
     3.3.4. Maintain case files on industrial areas.
     3.3.5. Assist shop supervisors in maintaining current inventories of hazardous chemicals
     as required by the Federal Hazard Communications Training Program.
  3.4. Wing/Base Ground Safety:
     3.4.1. Documents and reports OSHA Reportable occupational illnesses on the OSHA
     Form 300, Log of Work-Related Injuries and Illnesses, or electronic equivalent.
     3.4.2. Works with Team Aerospace personnel to ensure installation complies with
     applicable regulatory and policy requirements.
  3.5. Workplace Unit Commander will:
4                                                      VANCEAFBI48-103 6 December 2011


       3.5.1. Ensure compliance with all OEH program requirements and ensures employees
       report for all scheduled OEHMEs.
    3.6. Workplace Supervisors will:
       3.6.1. Ensure required OEH hazard controls are implemented and functioning correctly,
       and personal protective equipment is available and used correctly in the workplace;
       instruct personnel on care/hygiene of their personal protective equipment.
       3.6.2. Ensure workplace complies with applicable OEH regulatory and policy
       requirements.
       3.6.3. Inform BE if a change to workplace equipment or practices and procedures may
       impact exposure to OEH hazards.
       3.6.4. Conduct workplace-specific OEH hazard training, per regulatory or policy
       requirements; document training in accordance with AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational
       and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection and Health (AFOSH) Program.
       3.6.5. Consult with appropriate subject matter experts to ensure OEH hazard training
       meets or exceeds minimum requirements.
       3.6.6. Ensure baseline examinations are performed before commencement of a specific
       job to assess an employee’s ability to perform the job capably and safely from a medical
       perspective.
       3.6.7. Ensure personnel requiring OEHMEs attend scheduled medical appointments.
       3.6.8. Maintain accurate rosters of personnel assigned to the workplace; provide updates
       to Team Aerospace personnel upon request. Ensure personnel movements between
       workplaces are updated in MILPDS and civilian personnel systems.
       3.6.9. Ensure PH is informed promptly about each job-related illness or injury.
       3.6.10. Supports the OEH hazard identification and risk assessment process by ensuring
       active engagement of personnel with OEH professionals evaluating the workplace.
    3.7. Employees will:
       3.7.1. Comply with OEH program requirements, including training and the proper use of
       personal protective equipment.
       3.7.2. Report on time for scheduled OEHME appointments.
       3.7.3. Report changes that may impact exposure to OEH hazards to the appropriate
       supervisor; actively participate in workplace health hazard identification and health risk
       assessments, to include wearing sampling/monitoring equipment.
       3.7.4. Report to supervisors and medical authority any occupationally related exposures
       or health conditions, and seek medical care as required.
4. OEH AWARENESS.
    4.1. Supervisors, military personnel and DoD civilian employees are responsible for
    minimizing OEH-related risks.
VANCEAFBI48-103 6 December 2011                                                              5


   4.2. All medical personnel who examine (or see) patients should be aware of illnesses that
   have a correlation to OEH exposures. DoD 6055.5-M, Occupational Medical Examinations
   and Surveillance Manual, Appendix 2 has a list of sentinel events related to workplace
   exposure.
   4.3. Workers and other beneficiaries suspected of having OEH-related illnesses will be
   referred to PH. PH will document and track suspected OEH-related illnesses; Ground Safety
   will document and track suspected occupational injuries.
   4.4. PH will use the OEH-MIS to record, report, and trend OEH illness data. Other tools
   (e.g. ASIMS) are acceptable tools to use until the OEH-MIS includes all functional
   requirements.
   4.5. BE and PH work cooperatively to complete the OEH illness investigation process.
   4.6. PH performs the patient and workplace supervisor interviews.
   4.7. BE accomplishes the workplace and environmental health investigation.
   4.8. The Installation Occupational and Environmental Medicine Consultant (IOEMC) makes
   the final determination on the work-relatedness for a suspected OEH-related illness based on
   information provided by BE and PH.
   4.9. The IOEMC will document the decision in the patient’s medical records.
   4.10. PH will forward occupational illness information to the OSHA 300 log via a web-
   based reporting system or via OSHA Form 301, Injury and Illness Incident Report (or
   equivalent) to the base safety office for inclusion into the installation OSHA 300 log.
5. Scope: The Aeromedical Council is the final approval authority on the frequency, scope and
applicability of occupational health examinations based on recommendations from the
Occupational Health Working Group.




                                           RUSSELL L. MACK, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
 6                                                   VANCEAFBI48-103 6 December 2011


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363 Management of Records
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program
AFI 91-301, Air Force Occupational and Environmental Safety, Fire Protection, and Health
(AFOSH) Program
AFOSH Std 48-9, Radio-Frequency Radiation (RFR) Safety Program
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 2096, Classification/On-the-Job Training Action
DD Form 2215, Reference Audiogram
DD Form 2216, Hearing Conservation Data
OSHA Form 300, Log of Work-Related Injuries and Illnesses
OSHA Form 301, Injury and Illness Incident Report
Prescribed Forms:
No forms are prescribed by this publication.

Acronyms
71 MDG—71st Medical Group
AAF—Auxiliary Air Field
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
ALARA—As Low As Reasonably Achievable
BE—Bioenvironmental Engineering
BEE—Bioenvironmental Engineering Element
CS—Communication Squadron
DoD—Department of Defense
DOT—Department of Transportation
FHM—Force Health Management
FMP—Flight Manuals Program
VANCEAFBI48-103 6 December 2011                                               7


FSS—Force Support Squadron
GHz—gigahertz
IAW—In Accordance With
IOEMC—Installation Occupational and Environmental Medicine Consultant
kHz—kilohertz
LRS— Logistics Readiness Squadron
MDG—Medical Group
MDOS—Medical Operation Squadron
MILPDS—Military Personnel Data System
NDI—Nondestructive Inspection
NRC—Nuclear Regulatory Commission
OEH—Occupational and Environmental Health
OEH-MIS—Occupational and Environmental Health-Management Information System
OEHME—Occupational and Environmental Health Medical Examination
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSS—Operations Support Squadron
PCS—Permanent Change of Station
PH—Public Health
PIMR—Personnel Individual Medical Readiness
RAM— Radioactive Material
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RF—Radio Frequency
RIC—Radioisotope Committee
RSO—Radiation Safety Officer
SFS—Security Forces Squadron
SGP—Chief, Aeromedical Services
TLD—Thermoluminescent Dosimeters
TMO—Traffic Management Officer
T.O.—Technical Order
USAF—United States Air Force
VAFBI—Vance Air Force Base Instruction
 8                                                     VANCEAFBI48-103 6 December 2011


Examination Codes

ORGANIZATION                    EXAMINATION CODE             FREQUENCY
Footnote 1                      Footnote 2
71 OSS/Life Support QAE                 M                    Baseline/Periodic/Termination
71 CS/Airfield Systems                  M                    Baseline/Periodic/Termination
71 SFS                                  M                    Baseline/Periodic/Termination
(To include Combat Arms and the Kennel)
71 OSS/AF QAE                           M                    Baseline/Periodic/Termination
71 LRS/Fuels QAE                        M                    Baseline/Periodic/Termination
** The following teams are on the Respiratory Protection Program:
     - 71 MDOS Bioenvironmental Engineering Element
     - 71 LRS CE Readiness
     - 71 LRS CE Readiness Support Team
     - 71 FSS Search and Recovery Team
     - 71 MDG Tuberculosis (TB) Team
     - 71 MDG In-Place Patient Decontamination Capability (IPPDC) Team
     - 71 MDG Triage Team
     - 71 MDG Manpower Team
     - 71 MDG Field Treatment Team
     - 71 MDG Patient Treatment Team
Explanation of Examination Code:
M - Used to identify audiometric examinations required for the Hearing Conservation Program.
Footnotes:
1. Facilities not listed do not require any examinations. The potential hazard for facilities not
listed is negligible or adequate procedures/mechanical controls and personal protective
equipment precludes routine hazardous exposure. Personnel on flying status are not identified
because they receive a hazardous noise audiogram during their annual medical examinations for
flying status.
2. All shops identified within this attachment require Baseline/Annual/Termination occupational
health examinations.
