        VANCE AFB
    Commander’s Safety Views
        71st Flying Training Wing Safety Philosophy
1. Each member of Team Vance is essential to mission accomplishment. Among the many different
tasks required to carry out the mission, the one key principle essential to all is — Safety. To maximize
mission effectiveness, all Vance military members, civil servants and contract employees must
incorporate Risk Management (RM) in the workplace and their personal lives to ensure we accomplish
each task as safely as possible.

2. When making decisions, remember the four principles of RM:

                                        a. Accept no unnecessary risk. There is an element of risk in
                                           everything we do. However, some tasks may include risk that
                                           is too high to accept. Risk becomes unacceptable when its
                                           potential cost outweighs the benefits of the task.
                                       b. Make risk decisions at the appropriate level. The greater
                                          the risk involved, the higher the level of review is required. If
                                          you question whether the task can be accomplished safely
                                          given the resources available, notify your supervisor to help
                                          mitigate the risk and identify the optimum course of action.
                                        c. Integrate risk management into operations, activities and
                                           planning at all levels. To enhance mission effectiveness and
                                           protect our people who make it happen, I count on you as the
                                           commanders, leaders and personnel to dedicate time and
                                           resources to integrate RM principles into your planning,
                                           processes and daily activities.
                                        d. Apply the process cyclically and continuously. Risk
     Colonel Darren V. James               management does not stop at the front gate. It is a continuous
          Commander                        loop, which adapts to the ever-changing environment and
                                           influences our decisions both on and off duty.

3. I ask each of you to continue your efforts towards maintaining a safe working environment. Job
standards, shop meetings, incentives and awards, proper training, and timely notification of mishaps are
just some of the tools available to help manage risk in the workplace. Furthermore, remember that safety
does not stop when you leave the work place. Take these principles home with you and teach your
families and friends how to incorporate RM into their daily activities such as working around the house,
or playing sports. Create a culture of safety that is part of your daily life. Doing so will help safeguard
yourself and your loved ones, preserve valuable resources, and help ensure you remain an effective
member of Team Vance.
                                                   VANCE AFB VA 91-203 29 July 14
                                                   Supersedes VAFB VA 91-203 20 Oct 10
                                                   Prescribing Directive AFI 91-202_Vance Sup 1, dtd 26 Apr 12
                                                   OPR: 71 FTW/SE, Bldg 455
                                                   RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.
