BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                             VANCE AIR FORCE BASE
HQ 71ST FLYING TRAINING WING                                             INSTRUCTION 33-301
(AETC)
                                                                                    3 MAY 2011

                                                               Communications and Information

                                                LEASED COPIER PROGRAM MONITORING



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/ for downloading.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 CS/SCQE                                                           Certified by: 71 CS/CC
                                                                         (Maj Douglas P. Hayes)
Supersedes:    VAFBI 33-301, 21 Feb 2009                                                  Pages: 3


This instruction implements procedures pertaining to base-leased copiers on Vance AFB. It
prescribes procedures for Vance Air Force Base (AFB) Copier Monitors and applies to all Air
Force military, civilian, and contractor personnel. This publication also applies to Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard (ANG) Units. Ensure that all records
created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS), located at https://my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. (AF Form
847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that
publication for guidance on filling out the form.)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Restructure of the program resulted in changes of responsibilities.
1. Vance AFB (Base Copier Monitor) is responsible for:
   1.1. The tracking and monitoring of leased copiers, to include communicating all issues to
   the Vance AFB prime contractor procurement office concerning vendors failure to perform,
   or other problems related to copier activities.
   1.2. Acting as liaison between unit copier monitors and the leasing agency.
 2                                                            VANCEAFBI33-301 3 MAY 2011


     1.3. Submitting required paperwork to the leasing agency of any and all approved copier
     moves.
     1.4. Ensuring current and signed Copier Appointment letters are on file and forwarded to the
     leasing agency.
     1.5. Coordinating with leasing agency to schedule and advertise copier training upon initial
     copier installation or major changes in equipment for all base populace.
     1.6. Providing technical solutions for all AF Form 3215, IT/NSS Requirements Document
     requests to include but not limited to; upgrades or temporary lease of additional copiers.
     Base Copier Monitor will evaluate and validate copier requirements referenced on AF Form
     3215, to ensure the equipment is adequate to perform organizational workload requirements.
2. Unit Copier Monitors are responsible for:
     2.1. Providing a signed and current appointment letter stating the primary and alternate
     monitor’s names, telephone numbers, and copy machine ID number. This must be sent to the
     Vance AFB Copier Monitor, who will forward it to the leasing agency. In the event Unit
     Copier Monitors change within the Vance AFB organization, the Base Copier Monitor shall
     receive an updated appointment letter from the current monitor or supervisor.
     2.2. If applicable, newly appointed Unit Monitors shall coordinate directly with the leasing
     agency customer service department for scheduling of on-site operator training.
     2.2. Copier-related issues (service calls, toner replacement, and problems with
     accomplishing a copying/printing task). These need to be addressed by our leasing agency.
     Monitors will find the leasing agencies number located on the front of every machine. When
     placing a call to the leasing agency, monitors will need to provide their copier’s ID number,
     which is located on the front of the copier.
     2.3. Ensuring the proper procedures are followed when copiers need to be moved. Monitors
     are never allowed to move copiers under any circumstances. If a copier needs to be moved,
     contact the Vance AFB Base Copier Monitor at 213-7569. Once the request to move has
     been approved by the Base Copier Monitor the Unit Monitor or supervisor shall coordinate
     directly with the leasing agency to establish a date and time for the move. Upon the
     completion of the move, the Vance Base Copier Monitor shall be notified to update the new
     location of the copier.
     2.4. The following handouts are required to be posted above all office copiers.
        2.4.1. Vance AFB VA 33-305, Your Copier Monitors Are.
        2.4.2. AETC VA 31-5, Approved Classified Copiers Only. If reprints of this visual aid
        are needed, reprints must be printed in color on 8.5” x 11” yellow cardstock.
        2.4.3. AETC VA 31-6, Unclassified Copiers Only. If reprints of this visual aid are
        needed, reprints must be printed in color on 8.5 x 11 white cardstock.

3. Prescribed Forms.

None.
VANCEAFBI33-301 3 MAY 2011                                                     3



4. Adopted Forms.

AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3215, IT/NSS Requirements Document




                                        RUSSELL L. MACK, Colonel, USAF
                                        Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
