BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         VANCE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
HQ 71ST FLYING TRAINING WING                                                 90-110
(AETC)
                                                                               30 AUGUST 2012

                                                                            Special Management

                                                                    WING-LEVEL MEETINGS



             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 FTW/DS                                                 Certified by: 71 FTW/DS (Lt Col,
                                                                              Timothy M. Stong)
                                                                                       Pages: 8


This instruction establishes the procedures and responsibilities of scheduling and maintaining
wing-level meetings. It applies to all Air Force civilian and military personnel, whether assigned
as permanent party or in transition (i.e., TDY). This instruction is the formalized product of an
AFSO21 event in 2009, where meetings were scrutinized with a particular emphasis on Battle
Rhythm. The resulting consensus relocated Group/Director-centric meetings to Wednesdays to
lessen the impact on flying operations, while at the same time providing stability for non-line
related activities. The use of the name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial
product, commodity, or service in this publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363 Management of Records,
and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS)/Air        Force     Records       Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)      located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims. Refer recommended changes and questions
about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847,
Recommendation for Change to Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field through the
Vance AFB Publications and Forms Manager. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215,
USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling out the
form.)

1. Scope: This instruction applies to all United States civilian and military employees at Vance
Air Force Base and geographically separated units.
2. scheduling meetings: The Master Wing Level Meeting List is maintained by the Director of
Staff. It includes all AFI required meetings that are chaired by a Group Commander or higher or
 2                                                        VANCEAFBI 90-110 30 August 2012


are cross functional (requiring attendance by agency chiefs, squadron commanders, chiefs, or
above). Only meetings that have been vetted by the 71 FTW/DS are included on the list, and
only those meetings on the list will be included in the master meeting schedule.
     2.1. If a meeting needs to be added to the Master List, the meeting OPR must route an e-SSS
     to all of the proposed attendees, 71 FTW/CCS, and 71 FTW/DS with the following
     information:
        2.1.1. Name of Meeting
        2.1.2. OPR (office symbol and name)
        2.1.3. List AFI Directed Meeting Chair and Attendees
        2.1.4. Additional Requested Attendees, with justification for their inclusion
        2.1.5. Frequency of Meeting (daily, monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, annually) and
        Week/Month Request (i.e., need to meet the third month of each quarter)
        2.1.6. Which Wing Core Competency the meeting falls under (Mission, Emergency
        Management, Contract Compliance/AFSO 21, Develop Airmen & Families, Admin)
        2.1.7. Informational or Decisional
        2.1.8. Bottom Line Up Front (BLUF) what will be accomplished in the meeting
        2.1.9. Attach the applicable pages from the AFI, CONOPS, or Charter that requires the
        meeting.
     2.2. Once the e-SSS is coordinated between all proposed attendees and vetted by the71
     FTW/DS, it will be included in the Master List and added to the Master Meeting Schedule.
     A sample e-SSS may be found on the 71 FTW SharePoint homepage at
     https://vance.eis.aetc.af.mil/default.aspx beneath the Wing Admin Guide (to the far right).
     Any requests for recurring meetings made directly to the Commander’s Secretary will be
     referred to the 71 FTW/DS for routing through the above process.
     2.3. The Master Wing Level Meeting Calendar is maintained by the 71 FTW/DS in two
     parts, an Excel spreadsheet and SharePoint Calendar. The generic Excel spreadsheet
     includes all face-to-face meetings on the Master Wing Level Meeting List and will serve as a
     year-to-year guide. The SharePoint calendar will be used to execute the meeting schedule.
     Wednesday is the Wing’s dedicated meeting day and recurring meetings are scheduled to
     occur only on Wednesdays. Most all meetings can be accommodated by scheduling them in
     advance to be held on Wednesdays. Normally, all meetings will occur on the first or third
     Wednesday of the month, except during November and December, when they occur on the
     first and second Wednesdays of the month.
     2.4. For daily use, the meetings will be loaded into the 71 FTW Wing Meetings Calendar,
     which may be accessed via SharePoint. To view the calendar, open the 71 FTW SharePoint
     homepage at https://vance.eis.aetc.af.mil/default.aspx and access the Wing Meetings
     Calendar by clicking on the ―Meetings‖ tab at the top of the calendar.
     2.5. If a scheduled meeting changes, 71 FTW/CCS will make the changes to the wing
     calendar. The meeting POC is responsible for notifying all attendees of the meeting change.
     Mid-week changes will be handled by the 71 FTW/CCS on a case-by-case basis. If the
VANCEAFBI 90-110 30 August 2012                                                               3


  meeting must be permanently rescheduled, contact the 71 FTW/DS to coordinate a new time.
  The meeting POC will then be responsible for contacting all attendees.
  2.6. POCs will invite their attendees by utilizing the Appointment function in Outlook.
  2.7. POCs will make every effort to also invite unit secretaries and executives utilizing the
  Appointment function in Outlook, so that alternates may be sent if the primary attendee is
  unavailable.
  2.8. Pop-up meetings that involve multi-disciplinary personnel (i.e., crossing group lines)
  should whenever possible, be scheduled for the next available open slot on the Wednesday
  calendar.
3. MEETING GUIDELINES:
  3.1. All meetings, with the exception of the Daily Aircraft Maintenance (DAM) meeting,
  Wing Stand-Up, the Program Management Council, and the Combined Advisory Councils,
  will be scheduled for 60 minute blocks. This includes a maximum of 50 minutes for
  presentation and a minimum of 10 minutes for questions/discussion.
  3.2. All meeting OPRs will post meeting slides in the specific meeting folder, located at
  S://Public/Meetings NLT 48 hrs prior to the meeting. If slides are not posted for preview by
  the deadline, the meeting will be CANCELLED. The OPR will then be required to
  coordinate a new meeting date and time with all attendees and the 71 FTW/CCS. If access to
  meeting slides needs to be restricted, the OPR is responsible for setting permissions. Then,
  forward a copy of the list of personnel with access to the 71 FTW/DS to maintain. If
  proprietary information is included in the slides, please coordinate with the 71 FTW/DS to
  arrange to email slides and add a document in the meeting folder that indicates that read-
  aheads will be emailed rather than posted.
  3.3. There is no standard format for slide appearance. However, minimizing pictures (and
  therefore file size) is highly encouraged. A sample slide presentation may be found on the
  71 FTW SharePoint homepage at https://vance.eis.aetc.af.mil/default.aspx beneath the
  Wing Admin Guide (to the far left) or at S:\Public\Meetings\1-71 FTW Meeting
  Policy\Sample Meeting Slides.
     3.3.1. All meeting slides WILL include the following:
         3.3.1.1. The first slide (hidden) will include the following (either on the slide or in
         the notes):
             3.3.1.1.1. AFI Reference/Charter/Plan/Etc. requiring the meeting. Include the
             whole paragraph/page from the AFI that charters the meeting, defines the
             attendees, and outlines the purpose of the meeting.
             3.3.1.1.2. Meeting OPR and contact information
         3.3.1.2. The first visible slide will include the desired end state of the meeting
         (Bottom Line Up Front (BLUF)) and meeting category:
             3.3.1.2.1. Informational – purely to inform attendees of a status
             3.3.1.2.2. Decisional – the outcome of the meeting will be a decision on the
             presented information
4                                                        VANCEAFBI 90-110 30 August 2012


               3.3.1.2.3. Vector – request direction from the meeting chair
           3.3.1.3. To quickly highlight important information, use the following color codes:
               3.3.1.3.1. New Information: Blue Font
               3.3.1.3.2. Decision Points: Red Font
               3.3.1.3.3. Vector Requests: Green Font
               3.3.1.3.4. All other information: Black Font
           3.3.1.4. Slides should be well organized and easy to read. Using one of the following
           formats will facilitate information sharing:
               3.3.1.4.1. Who/What/When/Where/Why/How
               3.3.1.4.2. What/So What/Now What
               3.3.1.4.3. Top to Bottom, Left to Right
           3.3.1.5. If the AFI/Charter/Contract provides a list of required topics, the slides
           MUST follow that format.
           3.3.1.6. Slides that contain background information will be labeled ―Background‖.
           3.3.1.7. The last slide of the presentation should capture action items. A good
           technique is to list all action items from the last meeting with the appropriate OPR,
           due date, and status. Then, the meeting chair may review new action items generated
           during the meeting.
    3.4. In order to reap the benefits of the consolidated meeting schedule, it is imperative that
    each meeting last no more than its allotted 60 minutes. The following briefing etiquette will
    help to facilitate providing all information within the time restriction:
       3.4.1. The meeting chair is responsible for the pace of the meeting and the pace of the
       slides. He or she may set a time limit for each briefer or cut the presentation short if he
       or she has garnered the pertinent information from the slides.
       3.4.2. All meeting attendees will read the slides prior to the meeting and have questions
       prepared, if required.
       3.4.3. Briefers will not read slides. They will only highlight changes, decision requests,
       or vector requests.
       3.4.4. Briefers will identify background slides. It is then at the discretion of the meeting
       chair to view or advance through those slides.
4. MINUTES:
    4.1. When required, minutes will be prepared after the meeting and routed via e-SSS to the
    appropriate level for signature. All minutes will be electronically signed and electronically
    endorsed. Prepare minutes IAW Air Force Handbook (AFH) 33-337, The Tongue and Quill
    with the following highlights and restrictions: If utilizing subordinate review prior to
    signature, methods other than an e-SSS (i.e., QMIS, e-mail, etc) may be utilized. These
    methods may also be utilized to distribute signed minutes to the membership post signature.
VANCEAFBI 90-110 30 August 2012                                                           5


     4.1.1. Meeting minutes will be prepared in the ―Official Memorandum‖ format and will
     be written in complete sentences.
     4.1.2. Minutes will be a clear summary of the participants’ comments.
     4.1.3. Names of the members present may be listed in two columns.
     4.1.4. Information regarding future meetings will be placed in the last paragraph.
     4.1.5. When a person signs a paper as a member of a board or committee, the signature
     block indicates that person’s status on that board or committee, not any other position
     that person may hold. Type ―Approved as written‖ two lines below the recorder’s
     signature block, followed by the approving authority’s signature block.
     4.1.6. Minutes are typed either single or double-spaced, with additional space between
     items of business and paragraphs.
     4.1.7. The order of the minutes usually coincides with the order of the agenda, and the
     following items are generally included:
         4.1.7.1. Kind of meeting (regular, special, etc.)
         4.1.7.2. Day, date, time and place of meeting
         4.1.7.3. The word ―Minutes‖ in the heading
         4.1.7.4. Name of the meeting in the body
         4.1.7.5. Opening paragraph; i.e., The Executive Committee met for _____ meeting
         on the day, date and time
         4.1.7.6. Members present
         4.1.7.7. Members absent
         4.1.7.8. Action taken on the last meetings minutes
         4.1.7.9. Reports
         4.1.7.10. Current business, with complete discussions and conclusions
         4.1.7.11. Old business, with discussions, and follow-up, as recommended
         4.1.7.12. New business, with discussions and recommendations
         4.1.7.13. Adjournment
     4.1.8. Minutes are dated when they are distributed, not when they are prepared. For
     minutes signed at the wing, leave the date blank. They will be stamped when the 71
     FTW/CC or CV signs them.
     4.1.9. Pages will be numbered if there are more than two pages.
     4.1.10. An example of meeting minutes may be found at S:\Public\Meetings\1-71 FTW
     Meeting Policy.
  4.2. Minute Suspenses: Minutes are due to the group for coordination 5 business days after
  the meeting. Minutes are due to the wing for coordination 10 business days after the
  meeting.
 6                                                      VANCEAFBI 90-110 30 August 2012


5. CONSOLIDATED MEETINGS: Like meetings will be consolidated as much as possible.
If an OPR has suggestions for consolidating meetings, please forward them to the 71 FTW/DS.
The Vance Club Advisory Council, the Commissary and BX Advisory Council, and the Base
Education Planning Advisory Committee (BEPAC) have all been combined into the 2 hour
Combined Advisory Council, which will meet quarterly and be chaired by the 71 MSG/CC. The
meeting will occur in the Wing Conference Room in accordance with the Master Meeting
Schedule. The concept is to create a seminar environment where briefers arrive, provide
information and facilitate discussion, then leave when their portion of the brief is concluded.
6. OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES: The 71 FTW/DS or his/her designee, shall review the
master meetings folder once per year to ensure unused activities are addressed with the OPR, and
either reconfigured to match current needs, or archived.




                                            DARREN V. JAMES, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
VANCEAFBI 90-110 30 August 2012                                   7


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program (FMP), 22 December 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFH 33-337, Tongue and Quill, 1 August 2004
Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change to Publication
Prescribed Forms: No forms are prescribed by this publication.

Acronyms
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFH—Air Force Handbook
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
BEPAC—Base Education Planning Advisory Committee
BLUF—Bottom Line Up Front
BX—Base Exchange
CC—Commander
CONOPS—Concept of Operations
CV—Vice Commander
DAM—Daily Aircraft Maintenance
DS—Director of Staff
ESSS—Electronic Staff Summary Sheet
FMP—Flight Manuals Program
FTW—Flying Training Wing
IAW—In Accordance With
MSG—Mission Support Group
NLT—No Later Than
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POC—Point of Contact
 8                                           VANCEAFBI 90-110 30 August 2012


QMIS—Quality Management Information System
RDS— Records Disposition Schedule
TDY—Temporary Duty
TMT—Task Management Tool
VAFBI—Vance Air Force Base Instruction
