BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        VANCE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
HQ 71ST FLYING TRAINING WING                                                24-102
(AETC)
                                                                                18 APRIL 2012

                                                                                Transportation

                                                         AUTHORIZED USE OF VEHICLES


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at http://www.e-publishing.af.mil/

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 LRS/LGT                                                       Certified by: 71 MSG/CC
                                                                    (Col Michael B. McDaniel)
Supersedes:   VANCEAFBI 24-102,                                                         Pages: 6
              2 Dec 2011


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 24-3, Management, Operation
and Use of Transportation Vehicles, 7 July 2010, and Air Force Instruction (AFI) 24-301,
Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008. It prescribes authorized use of government owned,
Government Service Agency (GSA) leased, and contractor owned vehicles at Vance AFB.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and are disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS),
located    at    https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rds/rds_series.cfm.       Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route
AF Form 847 from the field through the appropriate functional chain of command. (AF Form
847 is prescribed in AFI 11-215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that
publication for guidance on filling out the form.)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

Transportation will continue to provide shuttle services for official TDY departures/arrivals to
Oklahoma City, Wichita and Tulsa airports. However, Transportation will now schedule shuttle
services to combine multiple customers who have departures/arrivals within a 4-hour window
versus the previous 1.5-hour window. U-Drive (UDI) requests for terminal transportation will
only be supported if dispatch does not have drivers available. NOTE: This policy change does
not affect flight crew, distinguished visitors, commanders or deploying personnel. Exceptions to
this policy can be requested through squadron commanders to the 71 LRS/CC. ALS graduations
 2                                                        VANCEAFBI24-102 18 APRIL 2012


transportation for the Command Chief of Vance, plus one other vehicle has been added.
Additionally, due to budget constraints, members are encouraged to utilize contractor-operated
shuttles or government transportation to and from the airport in conjunction with official
Temporary Duty (TDY). They will not be reimbursed for transportation costs associated with
taking personally-procured travel.
1. General: Official use of DoD vehicles is covered in-depth in AFI 24-301, Vehicle
Operations, with Vance AFB-specific considerations detailed in subsequent paragraphs of this
instruction. The Vance AFB appropriated fund (APF) vehicle fleet consists of a mixture of
government-owned and government-funded/contractor provided vehicles, with the possibility of
Government Service Agency (GSA) rental vehicles entering the fleet in the future. For the
purpose of this instruction, no distinction will be made between these vehicles. All are provided
through government funding and will be referred to collectively as “government vehicles” or
“GVs”. This instruction is applicable to all APF GVs in the Vance AFB fleet, without regard to
the operator’s base of assignment, service affiliation or duty status.
2. Vance AFB Policies for GV Use:
     2.1. Vance AFB GVs are typically assigned to an organization for official use only, based on
     continuous unit need, in accordance with Air Force procedures and/or the base support
     contract. All GVs are intended for use only within the established Vance Permissible
     Operating Distance (POD), which includes any location within a 45-mile radius of the base,
     as well as to/from Sheppard AFB (for medical requirements scheduled by the Vance Medical
     Clinic), Tinker AFB, Tulsa Airport, Wichita Airport and Oklahoma City Airport. Other
     locations within the vicinity of Oklahoma City are specifically excluded from the Vance POD
     area. Personnel requiring the use of a vehicle to travel outside the POD area will submit a
     request in writing to the Transportation Manager.
        2.1.1. GVs may make brief stops for personal needs when traveling to/from official off-
        base functions (fast food/convenience store, etc.), along the immediate route to/from the
        base, not to include stops at personal residences or establishments within the close
        proximity of the base.
        2.1.2. “Close proximity” of Vance AFB, for the purpose of further restrictions on
        authorized GV use, is defined as the area bounded by Rupe Avenue (north), Mitchell
        Boulevard (east), Longhorn Trail (south), and Garland Road (west).
     2.2. A limited number of “U-drive” GVs are available for temporary, official use by the base
     populace and authorized TDY personnel. These GVs are typically restricted to periods not to
     exceed five days. U-drive requirements exceeding five days in length (or for travel outside
     the Vance POD) must be approved, in advance and in writing, by the Transportation
     Manager.
        2.2.1. Due to liability issues above/beyond the scope of the Vance base support contract,
        contractor-owned GVs will not be issued to members for the purpose of transporting
        personnel in permissive TDY status. Members in this duty status may use publicized,
        regularly scheduled transportation services on a space available basis.
        2.2.2. There are a limited number of Air Force-owned GVs suitable for authorized
        permissive TDY use. The wing commander (71 FTW/CC) is the approval authority for
        this type of transportation service.
VANCEAFBI24-102 18 APRIL 2012                                                                   3


   2.3. Specific Air Force and contractor emergency response agencies are authorized use of
   assigned GVs for travel between their duty location and official activities/on-base facilities.
   Applicable emergency response personnel will be designated in writing by the 71 FTW/CC.
   Emergency response personnel may not drive vehicles to/from private quarters for domicile-
   to-duty purposes or to conduct personal business.
       2.3.1. The 71st Operations Group Commander is further authorized to drive his/her
       assigned GSA staff car to on-base quarters during flying hours to facilitate his/her
       immediate availability for duties in connection with on-going flight operations. Staff cars
       will not be parked overnight at quarters.
3. Authorized Domicile-to-Duty Transportation:
   3.1. Due to his/her 24-hour responsibility for overall base operations and installation
   security, the 71 FTW/CC is assigned a GSA under a Command and Control Vehicle (CACV)
   authorization, which may be used in accordance with the following additional guidelines:
       3.1.1. Traveling between his/her on-base quarters and duty location. The vehicle may be
       kept at his/her quarters overnight.
       3.1.2. Incidental travel to physical conditioning facilities, eating establishments, post
       office, cleaners, banks, etc., is authorized when the 71 FTW/CC determines immediate
       access to the CACV is necessary or prudent for the safe/effective conduct of the wing
       mission.
       3.1.3. In case of the 71 FTW/CC’s leave or extended absence from the duty station,
       CACV authority passes to the individual assuming command responsibilities during the
       71 FTW/CC’s absence.
   3.2. In accordance with the Vance Base Support Contract, the contractor’s Program Manager
   is allotted a (contractor-owned) GV to conduct official duties and may drive his/her assigned
   GV to off-base destinations to include travel to/from his/her off-base quarters to facilitate
   timely        24-hour emergency response. However, associated costs for this off-base travel
   (fuel, etc.) are the contractor’s responsibility.
4. Domicile or Place of Employment to Commercial Terminals: Vance AFB is served by
three regional airports, Will Rogers World Airport, Oklahoma City OK; Tulsa International
Airport, Tulsa OK; and Mid Continent Airport, Wichita KS. The extended distance and lack of
reliable commercial transportation between the base and these airports makes the use of GV
transportation necessary to support personnel traveling on official business to and from the base.
The following policy governs the use of vehicles for airport transportation.
   4.1. Personnel will call the Vehicle Operations Dispatcher to request airport transportation.
   Requests should be made at least two days in advance to accommodate scheduling. For
   transportation required after duty hours and on weekends, the transportation stand-by person
   may be reached via the Vance Command Post. Due to the distance of airport terminals,
   individuals requesting the airport taxi will be consolidated with another requestor(s) if
   aircraft departures/arrivals are within 4 hours of each other. Members will be notified by the
   dispatcher if they will need to depart earlier from the base. Also, upon return, members may
   have delays returning to base if another member is arriving within 4 hours of their scheduled
   arrival time. U-Drive requests for terminal transportation will only be supported if dispatch
 4                                                         VANCEAFBI24-102 18 APRIL 2012


     has no driver available. However, the 4-hour window will not apply to flight crew,
     distinguished visitors (DVs), squadron commanders, and deployed members. A U-Drive It
     will be allowed for sponsors to pick up new members assigned to Vance AFB. U-Drive Its
     and terminal transportation will not be used for members PCSing out of Vance AFB. The
     dispatcher has the authority to make the call on who falls into which category and the times
     that members will be picked up or dropped off. Exceptions to this policy can be requested
     through squadron commanders to the 71 LRS/CC.
     4.2. Wing Protocol will determine who falls within DV status and arrange transportation
     with Vehicle Operations.
     4.3. Pick-up and drop-off at off-base locations is not authorized, except to pick-up/drop-off
     TDY personnel billeted at an off-base establishment. However, if the member resides on
     base, transportation will pick the member up and drop the member off from on-base
     residencies.
     4.4. Family and squadron members may ride to the terminal with a deployer or to meet a
     returning deployer on a space-available basis. The vehicle must be no larger than that
     required for the performance of official business. Example: one returning deployer warrants
     a small van due to baggage requirements, not a bus because of numerous space-available
     travelers. If a member is carrying a weapon for a deployment, it is his/her responsibly to get
     the weapon to their deployed location and back to Vance AFB. Drivers will not take control
     of a member’s weapon. You cannot transport a weapon in a POV; it must be transported in a
     GV.
     4.5. Transportation to/from the airport: Military members and government civilians will
     utilize contractor-operated shuttles or government transportation to/from the airport in
     conjunction with official TDYs. Personnel may choose to take personally-procured
     transportation, but will be responsible for any associated costs (i.e., mileage, parking fees,
     etc).
5. ALS Graduations: The Command Chief of Vance will be issued his/her own vehicle for
ALS graduations. One other vehicle will be provided for all others. If that vehicle is too small, a
driver or a crew bus will be provided for transportation to and from Altus AFB.




                                              MICHAEL B. McDANIEL, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 71st Mission Support Group
VANCEAFBI24-102 18 APRIL 2012                                                         5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Adopted Forms:
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

References:
AFI 24-301, Vehicle Operations, 1 November 2008
DoD 4500.36-R, Management, Acquisition, and Use of Motor Vehicles, March 1994
Title 40 USC, Section 491, Motor Vehicle Pools and Transportation Systems
Title 31 USC, Section 1344, Passenger Motor Vehicle and Aircraft Use
Joint Federal Travel Regulation/Joint Travel Regulation (JFTR/JTR), Current Edition
HQ USAF/CV Memo, Government Transportation Between Domicile and Commercial
Terminals, 31 May 2006
HQ USAF/A4R Memo, Clarification on Transportation Services
HQ AETC/CV Memo, Government Transportation To and From Commercial Terminals, 31
January 2007
SAF/GCA Memo, Transportation To Terminals Using Government-Owned Vehicles, 26 June
2006
71 LRS/CC Memo, Permissible Operation Distance (POD), 15 August 2005

Abbreviations and Acronyms:
71 FTW/CC—Wing Commander
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFI—Air Force Instruction
APF—Appropriated Fund
CACV—Command and Control Vehicle
DoD—Department of Defense
DV—Distinguished Visitor
FMP—Flight Manuals Program
FTW—Flight Training Wing
GSA—Government Service Agency
GV—Government Vehicle
 6                                                  VANCEAFBI24-102 18 APRIL 2012


JFTR/JTR—Joint Federal Travel Regulation/Joint Travel Regulation
KS—Kansas
OK—Oklahoma
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
POD—Permissible Operating Distance
QMIS—Quality Maintenance Systems
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TW/LGT—Transportation Manager
TDY—Temporary Duty
UDI—U-Drive It
