BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       VANCE AIR FORCE BASE INSTRUCTION
HQ 71ST FLYING TRAINING WING                                               32-9001
(AETC)
                                                                       24 SEPTEMBER 2014

                                                                            Civil Engineering

                                                        FACILITY MANAGERS PROGRAM



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 71 LRS/CE                                                       Certified by: 71 LRS/CC
                                                                     (Lt Col Jon T. Robinson)
Supersedes:   VAFBI 32-9001, 7 May 2008                                              Pages: 13


This instruction provides guidance and establishes procedures and responsibilities for
commanders/facility managers at all Vance AFB and Kegelman Auxiliary Field facilities.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and are disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS). Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command. (AF Form 847 is prescribed in AFI 11-
215, USAF Flight Manuals Program [FMP]. Refer to that publication for guidance on filling
out the form.)

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
to this instruction include rank requirements for facility managers, processing space change
requests, appliance requirements and environmental management duties.
1. General Information. Organizational commanders/directors are responsible for the care,
custody, and protection of all facilities they occupy or are assigned to on Vance AFB and
Kegelman Auxiliary Field. Commanders/Directors must ensure no facility alterations, additions,
or construction are accomplished without prior Civil Engineer (CE) approval for this work. To
meet these facility requirements, commanders/directors appoint primary and alternate facility
managers for each facility under their span of control. These facility managers become the
 2                                                 VANCEAFBI32-9001 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


official contact point whenever their facility needs CE work. This instruction will provide
guidance and information on the duties and responsibilities of a facility manager.
     1.1. Appointment of Facility Managers. The organizational Commander/Director
     designates the primary and alternate facility manager for each facility by letter to the
     Director, Civil Engineer. The letter must contain the following information:
        1.1.1. Individuals designated as Primary and Alternate Facility Managers.
        1.1.2. Facility number.
        1.1.3. Office symbol.
        1.1.4. E-mail address.
        1.1.5. Duty phone number.
        1.1.6. Home phone number.
        1.1.7. Letter must be signed by the organizational commander.
        1.1.8. This will start the process to update the facility manager database and notify the
        Real Property Accountant that training may be required for these designated individuals.
     1.2. Assignment. The Commander/Director will designate facility managers who have at
     least 12 months retainability at the time of their appointment and are commissioned officers,
     enlisted in the grade of E-4 and above, civilian equivalents or contractors (see 1.3) as primary
     and alternate facility managers for each facility assigned to the organization. In multipurpose
     facilities where more than one organization occupies the space, the major user is assigned as
     the primary facility manager. Any other organization using a portion of a multipurpose
     building is encouraged to appoint an alternate building manager for their assigned area. If
     there are changes of personnel due to PCS, retirement, change of duty station, or separation,
     a letter showing these changes with the information shown in paragraph 1.1 should be
     provided to the Director, Civil Engineer a minimum of 20 days prior to change.
     1.3. Contractors. Contractors may be assigned as facility managers if it is in the best
     interest of the government to do so and is included in the Base Operating Support Services
     Agreement; or if government-furnished facilities are provided for work areas, and the
     contractor is the primary occupant of the facility.
2. Facility Manager Responsibilities.
     2.1. General. Facility managers assume the responsibility for the proper care, custody, and
     protection of facilities by their appointment as facility manager. To accomplish this, facility
     managers must conduct visual inspections of the interior and exterior of the facility to assess
     maintenance problems or damage to the structure. Just a few items to check are doors,
     windows, plumbing fixtures, closets, stairwells, entrances, hallways, entryways, mechanical
     rooms, and office areas. Notify facility occupants of any poor housekeeping methods and
     ensure corrective action is taken to remediate the problems to prevent fire/safety hazards.
     Mechanical rooms must not be used as organizational storage rooms. Ensure facility users
     do not alter the arrangement of or move/remove: water, heating, lighting, ventilation, air
     conditioning, plumbing fixtures, or other real property installed equipment.
VANCEAFBI32-9001 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                            3


  2.2. Opening and Closing. The hours for opening and closing the facility during normal
  duty hours and for after-hours entrance should be provided to all facility occupants. This can
  be accomplished by E-mail or notice in the facility.
  2.3. Space Usage. Ensure the assigned space in the facility is being used as approved by the
  base Facility Board. A good practice is to have a floor plan of the facility and outline areas
  organizations occupy. Rearranging office space among squadrons that occupy the same
  facility requires Facility Board approval prior to movement. If you have a request for space
  enlargement or rearrangement, contact the Real Property Accountant at 213-7206 for
  information or assistance. Space change requests must be provided to Real Property a
  minimum of 20 work days prior to Facility Board Working Group meetings.
  2.4. Space Usage Increase. If your organization has a request for additional space, prepare
  a letter with the following information included:
     2.4.1. Organization requesting space.
     2.4.2. Organizational point of contact.
     2.4.3. Office symbol.
     2.4.4. Phone number.
     2.4.5. Present space occupied by organization in facility.
     2.4.6. Amount of additional space required.
     2.4.7. Reason for additional space.
     2.4.8. Proposed location for new requirement if known.
     2.4.9. Letter must be signed by the squadron commander or equivalent.
     2.4.10. Send the letter to the Director, Civil Engineer, who will then review your request
     and have the Real Property Accountant contact your organization to learn additional
     details about the space increase. Your request will be reviewed internally in CE and
     forwarded to the Facility Board Working Group for final review/approval before final
     submission to the Facility Board.
  2.5. Facility Manager File. Each facility manager is required to keep a binder either in hard
  copy form or electronically for each facility they manage with the following information
  included:
     2.5.1. A copy of VAFB Instruction 32-9001, Facility Managers Program.
     2.5.2. Facility manager’s work request log.
     2.5.3. Key control log.
     2.5.4. Facility Manager’s Appointment Letter.
     2.5.5. Asbestos survey of facility (if accomplished).
     2.5.6. Any other facility-specific material you wish to file.
  2.6. Internal Facility Responsibilities. Facility managers are responsible for ensuring the
  following internal facility responsibilities are accomplished.
 4                                                  VANCEAFBI32-9001 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


        2.6.1. Custodial services in most facilities are provided by the base service contractor.
        The facility manager has the responsibility to monitor the level of custodial service
        provided by the base service contractor. This level of service to your facility is
        determined by the Air Force statement of work issued to the service contractor,
        considering the number of personnel utilizing the facility and its function. Based on
        these factors, a service category is then determined for the facility. This service category
        will determine the custodial tasks and frequency of services to be provided. A copy of
        the level of service provided to your facility can be found at
        S:/Public/Custodial/Public/Schedule of Services Sheets. During periods of heavy facility
        usage and when the contractor is meeting the contractual standards, the facility manager
        or other designated individual may be required to take out trash in order to maintain the
        facility to normal sanitation standards. If you determine the facility is not receiving the
        level of service as written in the statement of work, you may contact the custodial
        supervisor at 213-6079 or contact the Air Force Civil Engineer Quality Assurance
        Provider at 213-7596.
        2.6.2. Recycling services are provided to major facilities on base in designated locations
        within the facility. A facility manager should ensure recyclable materials are properly
        collected and stored by facility occupants so pickup by Resource, Recovery, Recycling
        Program personnel can be quickly accomplished. If materials are not being put in the
        designated locations or not being sorted, then the facility manager may need to brief
        occupants on their responsibilities. Contact the recycling center at 213-7219 for
        assistance.
        2.6.3. Facility managers are required to notify the Civil Engineering Operations Branch
        at 213-7376 of any changes or additions to government-furnished appliances in their
        facility. Civil Engineering is required to maintain a basewide listing of appliances by
        make, model, and serial number for appliances such as stoves, refrigerators, and
        microwaves.
     2.7. External Facility Responsibilities. The facility manager is responsible for the outside
     of the facility just like the interior. The designated area of responsibility is halfway to the
     adjoining facility, or to an appropriate physical barrier, such as a fence, sidewalk, or street, or
     50 feet, whichever comes first.
        2.7.1. Grounds maintenance is provided by the base service contractor but facility
        managers are responsible for policing their designated area and removing trash or litter.
        2.7.2. Remove snow, sleet, and ice from sidewalks and entryways so residents can have a
        safe passageway into the facility. The removal of snow and ice on sidewalks and
        entryways should be in accordance with your designated area of responsibility as
        indicated in paragraph 2.7. The CE Self-Help Store, located in Facility 288, can provide
        de-icing material and will loan out snow shovels when requested.
        2.7.3. Facility managers should ensure trash dumpsters are accessible to trash collection
        vehicles and lids are kept closed to eliminate blowing trash. Cardboard recycling
        containers are also kept on the outside of the facility and should be utilized for this
        purpose.
3. Requests for Work.
VANCEAFBI32-9001 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                            5


  3.1. Types of Work. Facility managers are required to identify and report facility work
  requirements to CE. Facility managers need to be aware that CE has two types of work
  requests: direct scheduled work orders and measured work orders. How we handle these
  two types of requests is different. A direct scheduled work (DSW) request is intended to
  serve as a simplified method of work processing which reduces administrative workload
  when detailed planning is not required and materials are normally available. The DSW
  request is classified by CE personnel as emergency, urgent, or routine service calls. A
  measured work order (MWO) is work that requires detailed planning, multiple CE shops, and
  submission of an AF 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request.
  3.2. Emergency DSW. Report all emergency DSW requests to the Customer Service Unit
  (CSU), 213-7555. CE maintains 24-hour-a-day, 7-days-a-week capability to respond to
  emergency conditions. Emergency work is defined as that which is detrimental to the
  mission or which reduces operational effectiveness. CE will respond as soon as possible,
  normally within 24 hours. Some examples include no heat or air conditioning to a
  temperature controlled environment, environmental control defects, power failure, broken
  pipes, or any potential danger to life or property. In any case, if you are in doubt, call the
  CSU to determine the proper response. Any person in your organization can call in an
  emergency request. When you call in, describe the problem, give the location to include
  facility number, room number, and point of contact with phone number.
  3.3. Urgent and Routine DSW. Work needed to restore your building to best serve your
  needs is classified as maintenance and repair. For urgent DSWs, it may take up to 7 calendar
  days to be accomplished. Routine DSWs might take approximately 30 days. Some typical
  examples include repainting, replacing ceiling tiles, light repairs, or minor leaks. An AF 332
  should be submitted by the facility manager for this work.
  3.4. Measured Work Order. If you have a requirement to add, change, or alter your
  facility, you must submit an AF 332 to CE. Minor construction needs detailed planning by
  the CE staff and requires updating of real property records to reflect this change. Unlike
  maintenance and repair, minor construction must compete with other base requirements for
  use of limited monetary resources. The stronger the justification, the better your chances are
  for approval.
     3.4.1. In-House Work Order. AF 332 is received in CE, assigned a work order
     number, and forwarded for review by the work order review board. If the work is
     approved by the board, it will be forwarded to Planning to accomplish basic design and
     projected costs. In-house craftsmen will then accomplish the work as their schedule
     permits. If the in-house work force cannot accomplish the work, it will be forwarded to
     CE for contract consideration.
     3.4.2. Contract. When extensive work requirements/special skills are needed, your AF
     332 will be given to the engineering branch for detailed estimating and project design. It
     is important to provide as much information on the AF 332 as possible so the work can
     be classified as maintenance, repair, or new construction. Facility projects by contract
     require time for accomplishment so you will need to plan years ahead.
         3.4.2.1. Timeline. From project planning to construction, the contract process can
         run 2-6 years on the average or greater. The project timeline is highly dependent on
         the project’s critical nature, justification, program type, and advocating from
6                                          VANCEAFBI32-9001 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


    organizational Commanders/Directors during Facility Board Working Group
    meetings.
    3.4.2.2. Fund Sources. There are several different fund sources available based on
    the program avenue selected.
       3.4.2.2.1. Sustainment, Restoration & Modernization by Contract.
       3.4.2.2.2. Defense Energy Support Center.
       3.4.2.2.3. Environmental Compliance.
       3.4.2.2.4. MILCON Program.
       3.4.2.2.5. Defense Medical Funds.
       3.4.2.2.6. NAF Funds.
       3.4.2.2.7. Utility Energy Services Contract for Energy Conservation.
    3.4.2.3. Facility Sustainment Model (FSM)/Facilities Investment Metric (FIM).
    Prioritizing facility projects for inclusion into fund-source programs is a difficult task,
    in that it requires input from the user, functional experts, Facility Board Working
    Group members, and Facility Board members. The FSM is the Department of
    Defense’s method of classifying facility work as either sustainment, or restoration and
    modernization. Sustainment supports maintenance and repair activities necessary to
    keep an inventory of facilities in good working order, including preventive
    maintenance tasks and scheduled minor/major repair (including replacement of old
    systems) within expected life cycles. Restoration and modernization supports repair
    and replacement work to restore damaged facilities due to accident or failure
    attributable to inadequate sustainment, excessive age, or other causes. It also
    supports alteration of facilities to implement a new, higher standard, to accommodate
    new functions, or to replace building components that typically last more than 50
    years. To further identify and stratify facility projects and determine funds
    requirements, the Air Force applies the FIM. FIM assesses a project’s impact on the
    installation’s mission, and its relative order of importance. Each project will be
    assigned an impact rating. Sustainment projects are considered preventative
    maintenance, and require advanced planning and scheduling to prevent mission
    impact. These projects receive an FIM rating of "Essential." The understanding of
    what justifies an FIM rating is crucial in order to provide enough information to
    properly support a project. Restoration and modernization will be assigned one of the
    FIM impact ratings determined by the justification provided for the project:
       3.4.2.3.1. Critical.
       3.4.2.3.2. Significant loss of installation/tenant mission capability.
       3.4.2.3.3. Frequent mission interruptions.
       3.4.2.3.4. Work-around continuously needed.
       3.4.2.3.5. Risk Assessment Code or Fire Safety Deficiency Code of I.
       3.4.2.3.6. Required due to an environmental Open Enforcement Action/Notice of
       Violation or when damage to the environment or to personnel is inevitable.
VANCEAFBI32-9001 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                              7


              Required due to a violation of a permit, legal agreement, consent order, or
              regulatory agreed compliance schedule.
          3.4.2.4. Degraded.
              3.4.2.4.1. Limited loss of installation/tenant mission capability.
              3.4.2.4.2. Work-around to prevent mission disruption and degradation are
              frequent.
              3.4.2.4.3. RAC or FSDC of II or III.
              3.4.2.4.4. Indirectly prevents enforcement actions or closes low vulnerability
              ESOHCAMP Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health, Compliance
              Assessment Management Program findings, or an action necessary to maintain
              compliance or correct non-compliance.
      3.4.3. Essential.
          3.4.3.1. Marginal or no adverse impact to installation/tenant mission capability.
          3.4.3.2. Work-arounds are seldom required.
          3.4.3.3. A good environmental business practice or cost-effective common-sense
          action to protect the environment.
      3.4.4. Self-Help. Because of limited resources and/or higher priority work in the system,
      you might want to consider a self-help work order in your facility. An organization can
      submit an AF 332 requesting accomplishment of the work yourself; in most cases CE will
      provide the material. In determining whether a self-help project is the correct step to
      take, CE will look at whether the organization has the technical capability and resources
      available to accomplish the work.
4. AF 332, BCE Work Request. The AF 332 will be used to request modifications,
renovations, installation of equipment, maintenance and repair, or new construction. The
following instructions are provided to help fill out this electronic form in QMIS.
   4.1. Requestor (Section I, Blocks 1-3, 5-7, and 11-13). The facility manager will prepare an
   AF 332 and retain one copy for their facility manager’s records. When possible, all
   requirements for a single facility will be included in a single AF 332 submission. Complete
   the request according to the instructions on the reverse side of the form. In block 5, the name
   and phone number of the point of contact within the section or location where the work will
   be accomplished should be identified. The facility manager should print his information in
   blocks 11 and 12 and sign in block 13 if the work is for routine maintenance and repair. If
   the work is for new construction, the organizational commander should sign in blocks 11-13.
   4.2. Description (Section I, Block 8). The description of work requested should be
   supported where possible by sketches, plans, diagrams, photographs, specifications, material
   information, specific time frame, and other data or information that will provide a clear,
   complete description of the location and scope of work being requested. Facility single line
   drawings are available from the Engineering/Drafting section by calling 213-7074.
   4.3. Justification (Section I, Block 9). Justifications must be complete, factual, indicate the
   urgency of the request, and include the impact on the mission if the work is not
 8                                                 VANCEAFBI32-9001 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


     accomplished. If applicable, include fire, safety, and health hazard discrepancies with an
     attached inspection summary. If relevant, provide a reference to the AFI or tech order that
     requires your requested work. Your justification should be clear, concise, and fully
     understandable by reviewing and approving authorities.
     4.4. Donated Resources (Section I, Block 10). Identify any donated resources that will be
     supplied by your organization against this specific work order. If you have nothing to
     donate, then check none.
     4.5. Coordination (Section I, Block 14). Coordination with agencies outside of CE is the
     responsibility of the organization submitting the work request. Minimal coordination
     requirements include the following: Fire Department (CSC/CEF), Environmental (PD/CEV),
     Ground Safety (71 FTW/SEG), and Bio-Environmental (71 MDOS/SGOAB).
     4.6. Costs (Section III, Blocks 20 and 21). When using self-help, provide an estimate for
     labor and material costs. Attach a list of materials that will be used to accomplish the project
     and if applicable, as-built drawing with planned alterations and changes.
5. Building Security.
     5.1. General. The facility manager is responsible for facility security. You should impress
     upon all personnel the importance of facility security. Your name, work, and home
     telephone numbers are taken from the letter designating you as facility manager and are
     provided to Security Forces. When a facility is left unsecured you will be notified by
     Security Forces to immediately respond and secure your facility. Remember, regardless of
     whom is responsible for the break in building security, you are the one who has to correct it.
     5.2. Procedures. You should establish procedures to ensure your building is secure from
     illegal entry at all times. Double check all doors and windows when closing up and be sure
     all locks are in good working order. Report any problems with locks to the CSU at 213-
     7555.
     5.3. Key Control. Facility managers are responsible for the issuance and security of keys to
     their facilities and should establish a system for issuance to appropriate personnel. A record
     of all keys issued will be kept by the facility manager. Locks for facilities and associated real
     property will be changed by CE personnel. No organization (excluding 71 MDG) is allowed
     to reproduce, obtain keys, cores, locks, padlocks, or cylinders for real property other than CE.
     The use of off-base locksmiths for work on real property items without CE coordination is
     prohibited. A facility manager will submit an AF 332 for additional keys, new cores, or re-
     keying of an entire facility.
     5.4. Base Exercises or Real World Events. Facility Managers should be very aware of
     severe weather procedures. Inform facility residents where to relocate to during tornado
     warnings. After the "All clear" is given, inspect your facility for damage and call 213-7555
     if you have sustained damage to the facility. During bomb threat exercises, you and all
     facility occupants should visually inspect the inside and outside of your facility for
     suspicious packages. Your Unit Control Center should contact you or other designated
     individuals during exercises on changes to FPCON signs, 100% identification checks, facility
     lock downs or any other actions required during the exercise or real world events.
6. Energy Management.
VANCEAFBI32-9001 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                               9


   6.1. Purpose. The facility manager is the key to an effective utilities conservation program.
   A primary function of the facility manager is to support energy conservation through a
   cooperative effort with the CE Energy Management Control Systems (EMCS) personnel.
   The following actions can help conserve energy during the year.
       6.1.1. Turn off lights that are not needed during after duty hours.
       6.1.2. Turn off outside lights during daylight hours.
       6.1.3. Check plumbing fixtures for leaks; report leaks to the CSU at 213-7555.
       6.1.4. Turn off machines such as fans, printers, calculators, copy machines, or other
       electrical equipment when not in actual use.
       6.1.5. Make sure doors and windows remain closed within heated or air-conditioned
       spaces.
       6.1.6. For facilities not programmed into EMCS, ensure the facility temperature stays
       within the temperature standards implemented by the wing.
       6.1.7. Notify EMCS of any changes to your set hours of operation (example: holidays,
       or change of mission).
       6.1.8. Comply with Wing Commander’s Summer and Winter Temperature Standards
       unless a specific temperature waiver is applicable.
   6.2. Energy Management Control System (EMCS). Vance is unique in that
   approximately 70 buildings are connected to EMCS in Facility 288. This computerized
   system allows CE operators to control the space temperature in designated facilities and to
   maintain a comfortable work environment. During the summer months, in order to reduce
   electrical demand, load shedding is utilized. Load shedding allows air conditioners to be
   turned off a few minutes each half hour when the outside temperature exceeds 93 degrees.
   6.3. Air Circulation. Air circulation will continue to work to help offset any increase in
   room temperature. Load shedding can be expected during the months of May-September,
   Monday through Friday, 1100-1700 hours. If you have questions about this program or
   temperature settings in your facility, contact the EMCS operators at 213-6081.
7. Fire Protection.
   7.1. General. Facility Managers are responsible to the organizational commander for the fire
   safe condition of their facility as specified in VAFBI Sup 32-2001, Fire Emergency Services
   Program. When the facility manager identifies a fire hazard or deficiency, corrective action
   must be initiated immediately. Fire prevention is everyone’s responsibility, but facility
   managers must continually enforce fire safety. Outlined below are fire safety requirements
   for facility managers.
       7.1.1. Facility managers will conduct fire evacuation drills with the assistance of the Fire
       Department as required by appropriate Air Force Instruction.
       7.1.2. Develop a Fire Department-approved fire prevention and reaction plan for each
       facility.
       7.1.3. Ensure facility employees have been trained and understand their fire prevention
       and protection responsibilities within the work environment. This includes documented
10                                              VANCEAFBI32-9001 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


     extinguisher training and the immediate indoctrination of newly hired employees on
     facility evacuation procedures.
     7.1.4. Assembly areas not having fixed seating should have occupant load information
     posted in a conspicuous location near the main exit from the room.
     7.1.5. Facility managers must notify and consult with the Vance Fire Department prior to
     purchase of flammable storage lockers.
     7.1.6. Ensure your facility is in a fire safe condition at close of business.
  7.2. Procedures. Facility managers should perform periodic inspection of their facility to
  identify fire deficiencies. Fire inspectors will also perform inspections of your facility to
  identify discrepancies and will pay particular attention to:
     7.2.1. Your knowledge of fire reporting, evacuation, and firefighting.
     7.2.2. Adequacy and condition of fire suppressant system, detectors, and alarms.
     7.2.3. Condition of fire suppressing facility features (fire doors, walls, etc.) designed to
     separate fire hazard areas.
     7.2.4. The control of smoking and proper disposal of smoking materials.
     7.2.5. The condition of electrical equipment and connections.
     7.2.6. All housekeeping practices.
     7.2.7. The adequacy, condition, and accessibility of fire exits and escapes.
     7.2.8. The condition, location, and accessibility of fire extinguishers.
  7.3. Fire Extinguishers. The base fire chief manages the fire extinguisher program and is the
  authority for all matters involving fire extinguishers. Fire extinguishers must be inspected
  monthly by the facility manager for serviceability. Your inspection of fire extinguishers
  should include:
     7.3.1. Are extinguishers located in their designated place?
     7.3.2. No obstruction to access or visibility of fire extinguishers.
     7.3.3. Operating instructions on name plate.
     7.3.4. Determine fire extinguisher fullness by checking gauge or lifting.
     7.3.5. Are safety seals or tamper indicators broken or missing?
     7.3.6. Does the fire extinguisher have obvious physical damage, corrosion, leakage, or
     clogged nozzle?
     7.3.7. Is pressure gauge reading or indicator in the operable range or position?
     7.3.8. For wheeled fire extinguishers, the condition of tires, wheels, carriage, hose, and
     nozzle.
     7.3.9. Refer questions regarding fire extinguishers, including the need, type, size, or
     maintenance to the fire prevention office at 213-7096.
VANCEAFBI32-9001 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                                             11


      7.3.10. Industrial Areas. Directional arrows may be required to indicate location of
      extinguishers in warehouses or industrial activities where visibility is obscured by storage
      bins or material. Extinguisher location shall comply with NFPA National Fire Protection
      Association 10 on marking and visibility. Signs can be used in assembly areas such as
      clubs, chapels, dormitories, and mercantile locations to indicate where extinguishers are
      located. It is not intended that a fire extinguisher be visible from all locations within a
      facility. The workplace indoctrination training provided to each employee should include
      locations of fire extinguishers within the facility.
   7.4. Facility Fire Prevention Folder. Facility managers are required to maintain a folder that
   contains the following information.
      7.4.1. Approved fire prevention and reaction plan.
      7.4.2. Employee training and certification reports.
      7.4.3. Fire drill reports and miscellaneous fire safety information.
      7.4.4. All AF 1487s, Fire Prevention Visit Report.
   7.5. Other Fire Department References. Another source available for facility managers'
   information is S:/Public/Fire Safety Information for Facility Managers. These documents
   provide additional information on OSHA Standards, handling of compressed gases, and
   public assembly occupancies.
8. Environmental Management.
   8.1. Purpose. Each facility manager must be aware of any operations or functions in or
   around their structure that are either potentially hazardous to the health and welfare of base
   personnel or potentially damaging to natural resources.
   8.2. Responsibilities. The facility manager’s responsibilities are provided below:
      8.2.1. In those facilities with asbestos, the facility manager is responsible for becoming
      aware of what materials are asbestos-containing and monitoring the condition of those
      materials for deterioration in coordination with the Base Asbestos Manager,
      Environmental Branch, at 213-6279.
      8.2.2. Be familiar with how and where hazardous chemicals are stored and used in your
      facility. Ensure hazardous material issue points have been coordinated with the Hazmat
      Pharmacy Program at 213-7339.
      8.2.3. Maintain a list of operations in the facility which have the potential to generate
      hazardous waste and the types and amounts of waste generated. Confirm that all
      locations where hazardous wastes (or potentially hazardous wastes) are stored have been
      coordinated with the base Hazardous Waste Manager at 213-6226.
      8.2.4. In the event of a spill of any hazardous material, hazardous waste, or petroleum
      product either within or outside of your facility, immediately notify the Fire Department
      at 911, and the Environmental Branch at 213-6279.
      8.2.5. Any equipment being turned into Supply/DRMO that contains any kind of oils
      must be coordinated with the Environmental Branch prior to turn-in.
12                                             VANCEAFBI32-9001 24 SEPTEMBER 2014


     8.2.6. Spent fluorescent lamps will be placed back into the manufacturer’s box and kept
     shut or turned in to the CE Self-Help Store in Facility 288 for proper disposal. If stored
     on site, the box must have a universal waste label and must be coordinated with the
     Environmental Branch.
     8.2.7. Routinely monitor both the interior and exterior of your facility to ensure all drums
     and other containers, both government and contractor owned, are labeled and secured.
     Immediately report any unidentified containers to the Environmental Branch at 213-6279.
     8.2.8. Facility Managers should follow the written requirements found in the Vance
     Environmental Management System (EMS) policy and operate base facilities in a manner
     that protects employees, visitors and the environment.
     8.2.9. Painted surfaces on Vance AFB may contain lead. Anytime you disturb these
     surfaces you could be exposed to airborne lead dust. The OSHA Lead Construction
     Standard, 29 CFR 1926.62, is in effect whenever materials are disturbed that contain any
     amount of lead. Projects that may disturb coated surfaces require testing of the coating
     prior to starting that project. If you have questions, contact the Environmental Branch at
     213-6279.
     8.2.10. Squadron facility managers must ensure hazardous materials, hazardous waste,
     and recyclables are not disposed of in trash receptacles and conduct periodic squadron
     spot inspections.
  8.3. Summary. The facility manager is responsible for the safety and well-being of the
  people in their facility, as well as others, both on the base and in the surrounding
  communities. If there is a spill, notify the appropriate officials immediately, as indicated in
  paragraph 8.2.4




                                           DARREN V. JAMES, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander, 71st Flying Training Wing
VANCEAFBI32-9001 24 SEPTEMBER 2014                                        13


                                         Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
None
Adopted Forms
AF 322, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF 847, Request for Change of Publication
AF 1487, Fire Prevention Visit Reports

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
CE—Civil Engineer
CSU—Customer Service Unit
DSW—Direct Scheduled Work
EMCS—Energy Management Control System
EMS—Environmental Management System
ESOHCAMP—Environment, Safety, and Occupational Health, Compliance Assessment
Management Program
FIM—Facilities Investment Metric
FMP—Flight Manuals Program
FSDC—Fire Safety Deficiency Code
FSM—Facility Sustainment Model
MWO—Measured Work Order
NFPA—National Fire Protection Association
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration
RAC—Risk Assessment Code
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
