BY ORDER OF THE                                             WHITEMAN AIR FORCE BASE
INSTALLATION COMMANDER                                            INSTRUCTION 33-301

                                                                                11 JUNE 2013

                                                             Communication and Information

                                                  VITAL RECORDS AND DISASTER PLAN

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 509 CS/SCXK                                                      Certified by: 509 CS/CC
                                                                      (Lt Col Chad A. Rogers)
                                                                                      Pages: 10


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 33-3, Information Management
and provides guidance on to prevent damage of records and how to recover records if necessary.
This instruction applies to all Whiteman Air Force Base (AFB) personnel and tenant units. Refer
recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.

1. Overview. This plan outlines actions to take to prevent damage of records and how to
recover records if necessary. All records maintained by the 509th Communication Squadron
Knowledge Operations Management (509 CS/SCXK) office are important and every possible
preventive measure should be taken to prevent damage to all records. The following are
considered vital records and are marked as such in AFRIMS. These records will be marked by
writing the word “VITAL” or “V” for easy identification if they are being kept in paper.
Electronic Vital Records will be marked with the word “VITAL” after the title. Vital records
must be backed up and stored in two geographically separated locations to ensure restoration
capability during times of disaster.
2. Contingency Planning And Risk Assessment.
   2.1. The vital records and records disaster mitigation and recovery programs relate to
   emergency preparedness. Contingency planning is critical to laying the foundation for both
 2                                                   WHITEMANAFBI33-301 11 JUNE 2013


     programs, and appropriate agency staff should be involved in this process. The planning
     provides a forum for dealing with the following issues:
        2.1.1. Determining the most critical activities that 509th Communication Squadron (509
        CS) must perform if it must operate under other than normal business conditions and in a
        facility other than its normal place of business.
        2.1.2. Identifying which records are required to support those critical activities and the
        reconstitution of normal operations.
        2.1.3. Identifying which records series or electronic information systems contain
        information necessary to protect the legal and financial rights of the agency and persons
        affected by the agency’s actions and preserving copies of such records.
        2.1.4. Establishing and implementing a plan to recover records (regardless of the
        medium of recording) that are damaged in an emergency or disaster.
3. Disaster Prevention.
     3.1. Monitoring of Temperature/Humidity Control Equipment. 509 CS/SCXK currently
     maintains records in the form of paper and electronic. Preventive maintenance should be
     performed by the 509th Civil Engineering Squadron (509 CES) to ensure equipment does not
     fail. The building manager will be contacted immediately when the discovery of equipment
     failure has been determined.
        3.1.1. Safe Storage of Records. To ensure safe storage of records, certain procedures
        will be followed. Records will not to be stored less than six inches from ceilings or
        suspended lights or eighteen inches from sprinkler heads. Records will not be stored in
        contact with electrical or fire alarm systems or where they will obstruct any exit access
        panel, air conditioning duct, or fire extinguisher. Precaution will be taken while eating
        and drinking around records. The base records management (BRM) periodically inspects
        the staging area and if there are any roof leaks or signs of the presence of rodents or
        insects, they will be reported immediately to the appropriate base agency to correct the
        situation to ensure the safe storage of records.
        3.1.2. Fire Prevention. Fire prevention procedures must constantly be in effect. Good
        housekeeping, constant monitoring, and prompt elimination of fire hazards are essential.
        There will be no smoking while dealing with records. All flammable solvents must be
        kept out of records storage areas. Trash must not be allowed to accumulate. 509
        CS/SCXK staff members are expected to become familiar with the location and
        operations of fire alarms, emergency exits, and evacuation routes. Also, the members
        should become familiar with the use of fire extinguishers. If any one needs training
        contact base fire department to get on job training (OJT).
        3.1.3. Monitoring for water leaks. Personnel must be aware at all times to detect and
        correct any possible water leaks. If necessary, plastic sheeting is to be immediately
        placed on the top of the file areas near the leak. Pails and buckets may be needed to
        collect water. Constant monitoring of the situation is needed to see if additional leaks
        occur and to empty pails. If records are getting damaged by leaking water, remove them
        to a safe, dry area.
WHITEMANAFBI33-301 11 JUNE 2013                                                                3


      3.1.4. Evacuation Plans. All 509 CS/SCXK staff members are expected to become
      familiar with the location and operations of emergency exits, evacuation routes, and fire
      alarms. They are also required to notify their supervisors immediately of any potentially
      dangerous situations. All personnel assigned to the 509 CS will evacuate the building at
      the closest exit and meet at the softball field for accountability.
4. Plan Of Action For Emergency Situation
   4.1. Floods. If a warning of impending flood is announced or ominous conditions are
   observed, a supervisor should be immediately notified. If necessary, an order for a quick and
   orderly evacuation of all staff members to a given area within the building will be given.
   Usually there will be enough time to properly protect records and resources. In case of water
   leakage, protect records by placing them high off the floor and placing plastic over file
   cabinets. 509 CS is not situated within a flood plain area; however, during periods of
   extremely heavy rain, conditions should be monitored to observe for the signs of flooding,
   blocked sewers, or other water-related problems.
      4.1.1. Fire. Any staff member who discovers a fire will promptly alert the proper
      authorities through the use of the nearest fire alarm pull station (fire alarm box) and to
      notify all personnel in the building to evacuate. The utmost important safety precaution
      is to ensure the safety of human life. If dialing can be safely accomplished, notify
      emergency personnel of the location and severity of the fire, and the name of the person
      who sounded the alarm.
          4.1.1.1. The first step taken after a fire disaster has occurred is to insure that the
          building is safe to enter before any attempts should be made to salvage records. If the
          air conditioning system still works, it should remain on. It is imperative to bring the
          temperature and humidity down, as mold will appear within 48 hours in unventilated
          areas made damp and harmed by water.
          4.1.1.2. If any of the records have been damaged by fire, extreme caution must be
          used in handling them. The records will be brittle and probably wet. Pieces of paper
          towels or unpainted paper should be placed under each charred page before moving
          the item. The towel or unpainted paper serves two purposes, to absorb moisture and
          to provide support. The corner of the towel or unpainted paper is then used to move
          the document.
          4.1.1.3. If the volume of damaged archival records is small, the documents should be
          divided into three groups; those that will be packed and frozen; records that are only
          slightly damaged and can be fan dried or air dried right away; and those that were not
          damaged and need no treatment, make arrangements for possible relocation.
      4.1.2. Water Damaged Materials. Due to the necessity of immediate action, primary
      emphasis of this plan is on the salvage of water damaged materials. Short of destruction
      by explosion or fire, damage to records resulting from water is probably the most severe.
      Virtually any wet document can be restored if prompt and proper action is taken.
      Exceptions are documents which contain very water soluble ink; these documents should
      be microfilmed. Although the specific methods for salvaging small amounts of material
      may differ from the methods for salvaging large amounts, the same general procedures
      are used for any type of water damage (freezing or drying).
 4                                                   WHITEMANAFBI33-301 11 JUNE 2013


       4.1.3. Insects or Rodents. To reduce the possibility of insect or rodent infestation, food
       and drinks should be properly stored. If records are infested with insects or rodents, the
       building manager will be contacted to request assistance in fumigating the area. Records
       that are caked with mud should be allowed to dry before attempts to remove the dirt are
       taken. After the records are dry, dirt and debris can be brushed off with brushes that are
       kept with other preservation supplies.
       4.1.4. Bomb Threats. The person receiving a bomb threat should make every attempt to
       write down the exact words of the caller. Note the exact time the telephone call was
       received and when it ended. Note any speech characteristics of the caller. Each phone
       will have an AF Form 440, Bomb Threat Aid, available.

Table 4.1. Bomb Threat Information

When is the bomb set to explode?

Where is the bomb placed?

What type of bomb is it?

What does the bomb look like?

Why was the bomb set?

Note: After the call has ended, the person who received the call should immediately (but
discretely) report the incident to his or her immediate supervisor. The supervisor should then
immediately dial 911. Building evacuation will be directed by the Installation Commander,
building manager, immediate supervisor etc.
       4.1.5. Severe Storm Warnings. If a warning of impending storm (such as torrential
       rain, gale force winds, damaging sleet, or tornado warning) is broadcast or ominous
       conditions are observed, a supervisor should be immediately notified. If necessary, an
       order for a quick and orderly evacuation of all employees to a given area within the
       building will be given. Building is not situated within a flood plain area; however during
       periods of extremely heavy rain, conditions should be monitored to observe for the signs
       of flooding, blocked sewers, or other water-related problems.
       4.1.6. Prolonged Power Outage. A power outage is usually a short-term
       inconvenience, not a major emergency. However, in the event of an extended power
       outage lasting more than one day, paper records may be vulnerable to damage. Paper is
       sensitive to changes in air temperature and to the amount of water vapor in the air. Rapid
       changes in temperature and relative humidity over a short period of time will accelerate
       the irreversible deterioration process. High temperatures and/or low relative humidity
       may cause textual records to become brittle and crack. High relative humidity may cause
       textual records to warp and promote the growth of mold and mildew. Diskettes may also
       be affected by rapid changes in temperature and relative humidity. In the event of a
       prolonged power outage, every effort must be made to maintain proper temperature and
       relative humidity levels. The building manager should be contacted in any case of
       prolonged outage. Good air circulation is important. Temperature and relative humidity
WHITEMANAFBI33-301 11 JUNE 2013                                                           5


       levels should be checked. If the power outage continues for an extended period, place
       extremely valuable or fragile records in a location that will maintain the desired
       temperature (70 degrees F. +/- 5 degrees) and relative humidity (50% +/- 5%). After
       power is restored, temperature and relative humidity should be gradually brought to
       normal levels.

Table 4.2. Emergency Information Matrix.

Fire Department (509th Civil   509th Civil Engineering        509th Security Forces
Engineering Squadron)          Squadron Work Control          Squadron
687-4507                       687-6350                       687-5666

509th Medical Group            509th Bomb Wing Base
687-2188                       Records Manager
                                687-6171




                                          THOMAS A. BUSSIERE
                                          Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Commander
 6                                              WHITEMANAFBI33-301 11 JUNE 2013


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFPD 33-3, Information Management, 08 September 2011
Prescribed Forms
There are no prescribed forms.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 440, Bomb Threat Aid

Abbreviations and Acronyms
509 CS—509th Communication Squadron
509 CS/SCXK—509th Communication Squadron Knowledge Operations Management
509 CES—509th Civil Engineering Squadron
AFPD—Air Force Prescribing Directive
AFB—Air Force Base
AFGSC—Air Force Global Strike Command
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
BRM—Base Records Manager
ERM—Electronic Records Management
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
OJT—On-the-Job Training
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RM—Records Manager
WHITEMANAFBI33-301 11 JUNE 2013                                           7


                                    Attachment 2
                         PLAN OF ACTION CHECKLIST

Issue                             Steps to Take               Completed

  Temperature/Humidity   1. Contact building manager
        Control          immediately
    Equipment Failure

                         If necessary, follow steps
                         outlined in prolonged power
                         outage section below.

         Issue                    Steps to Take               Completed

         Floods          1. Protect records by placing
                         them high off the floor

                         2. Place a plastic sheet over file
                         cabinet.

                         3. If safe to do so, monitor
                         situation for water leakage,
                         flooding, sewer blockage, or
                         other related water problems

         Issue                    Steps to Take               Completed

  Severe Storm Warming   1. If safe, monitor building for
                         signs of water leakage, flooding,
                         blocked sewers, or other water
                         related problems.

         Issue                    Steps to Take               Completed

          Fire           1. Alert personnel in building
                         by pulling fire alarm

                         2. If safe to do so, call 911 to
                         notify emergency personnel the
                         location and severity of fire and
                         name of person who pulled the
                         alarm.

                         3. Gather personnel as far away
 8                                              WHITEMANAFBI33-301 11 JUNE 2013


                         as possible from building.

                         Steps to Take                       Completed
Issue

         After Fire      1. Ensure building is safe to re-
                         enter.

                         2. If air conditioning still
                         works, it should remain on.

                         3. Handle records damaged by
                         fire with extreme care.

                         4. Place paper towels or
                         unprinted newspaper under each
                         charred record. Move
                         documents with the corners of
                         the newspaper or paper towel.

                         5. Divide records into 3
                            groups:
                            1. Those that will be
                               packed and frozen.
                            2. Those to be fan dried.
                            3. Those that need no
                                Treatment.

                         6. Make arrangements for
                         possible relocation of records.

Issue                    Steps to Take                       Completed

 Water Damaged Records   1. Contact Base Records
                         Manager to determine if records
                         should be dried or frozen.

Issue                    Steps to Take                       Completed

Insects or Rodents       1. Contact building manager to
                         request fumigating the area.

                         2. If records are caked with
                         mud, allow to dry before
                         attempting to remove. Brush
WHITEMANAFBI33-301 11 JUNE 2013                                              9


                          away, once dried.

                          Steps to Take                     Completed
Issue

        Bomb Threats      1. WRITE DOWN
                          EVERYTHING IN THE
                          EXACT WORDS OF THE
                          CALLER.

                          Attempt to obtain the following information

                          1. When is the bomb set to
                          explode?

                          2. Where is the bomb placed?

                          3. What type of bomb is it?

                          4. What does the bomb look
                          like?

                          5. Why was the bomb set?

                                           Once the call has ended

                          1. Notify your supervisor (if
                          available).

                          2. Dial 911 to inform security
                          police.

                          3. Wait for proper authority to
                          evacuate the building.

           Issue                   Steps to Take                 Completed

 Prolonged Power Outage   1. Contact building manager

                          2. Monitor records to ensure
                          mold/mildew are not forming on
                          records.

                          3. If necessary, contact 509
                          CES to acquire necessary
                          equipment to cool building to
                          approximately 70 degrees with
10                         WHITEMANAFBI33-301 11 JUNE 2013


     relative humidity at 50 percent.
