BY ORDER OF THE                                                                             WHITEMAN AIR FORCE BASE
509TH BOMB WING COMMANDER                                                                         INSTRUCTION 15-111

                                                                                                                              30 MAY 2012

                                                                                                                                       Weather

                                                                         BASE WEATHER SUPPORT DOCUMENT

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 509 OSS/OSW                                                                                          Certified by: 509 OSS/CC
                                                                                                            (Lt Col Brian D. Gallo)
                                                                                                                           Pages: 72


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 15-1, Air Force Weather
Operations and provides guidance on Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
(AFOSH) 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupations Safety Standard and Air Force
Instruction (AFI) 15-128, Air Force Weather Roles and Responsibilities. It establishes the
responsibilities and procedures for providing and using weather services at Whiteman Air Force
Base (AFB). It provides general information on weather services including weather observations
and forecasts, weather warnings and advisories, dissemination of weather information, and
reciprocal support. This instruction applies to all Whiteman AFB personnel and tenant units.
Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records
and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Information Management System
(AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-
af61a/afrims/afrims/.


       1.     General Information. ..............................................................................................            3
       2.     Airfield Services Element ......................................................................................               6
Table 2.1.    Conditions for Mandatory AN/FMQ-19 Supplementing - Body of Report ...........                                                  7
Table 2.2.    Conditions for Mandatory AN/FMQ-19 Supplementing – Remarks Section of
              Report ....................................................................................................................    8
 2                                                                            WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


Table 2.3.     AN/FMQ-19 Remarks Required to be Backed-Up ................................................                                  8
        3.     Mission Services Element ......................................................................................              12
Table 3.1.     Airfield MEF Amendment Criteria. .......................................................................                     15
        4.     Staff Weather Element ...........................................................................................            15
        5.     Meteorological Watch. ...........................................................................................            17
Table 5.1.     Forecast Weather Watch Criteria and Associated Desired Lead-Times. ...............                                           18
Table 5.2.     Weather Warning Criteria and Associated Desired Lead-Times ...........................                                       19
Table 5.3.     Weather Advisory Criteria and Associated Desired Lead-Times. .........................                                       20
Table 5.4.     SWAT Notification Criteria: ..................................................................................               22
        6.     Tornado Procedures ...............................................................................................           23
        7.     Reciprocal Support ................................................................................................          24
        8.     Supported Customer Mission and Aircraft Weather Sensitivities .........................                                      29
Table 8.1.     B-2 Supported Customer Mission and Aircraft Weather Sensitivities. .................                                         29
Table 8.2.     T-38 Supported Customer Mission and Aircraft Weather Sensitivities. ................                                         30
Table 8.3.     A-10 Supported Customer Mission and Aircraft Weather Sensitivities. ...............                                          31
Table   8.4.   AH-64 Apache Helicopter Supported Customer Mission and Aircraft Weather
               Sensitivities. ...........................................................................................................   31

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                              33

Attachment 2—AUTOMATED AND AUGMENTED SPECIAL OBSERVATION
             CRITERIA                                                                                                                       40

Attachment 3—TAF AMENDMENT CRITERIA                                                                                                         43

Attachment 4—EXAMPLE AFWS DISSEMINATION FORMATS                                                                                             45

Attachment 5—WEATHER WARNING/WATCH/ADVISORY NOTIFICATION
             DIAGRAMS                                                                                                                       48

Attachment 6—EXAMPLE FORMAT FOR WEATHER WARNINGS, WATCHES AND
             ADVISORIES                                                                                                                     50

ATTACHMENT 7—WEATHER CRITERIA CUSTOMER RESPONSE MATRIX                                                                                      54

ATTACHMENT 8—FORECAST AND OBSERVATION CODE BREAKDOWN                                                                                        57

ATTACHMENT 9—ENGINE INDUCTION ICING GROUND RUN TIMES MATRIX                                                                                 62

ATTACHMENT 10—OPREP-3 REPORT FORMAT                                                                                                         63

ATTACHMENT 11—WHITEMAN AFB SEVERE WEATHER ACTION PLAN
         CHECKLIST                                                                                                                          64
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                3


ATTACHMENT 12—PLANNING MEF EXAMPLE                                                           67

ATTACHMENT 13—5-DAY FORECAST WITH IMPACTS EXAMPLE                                            68

ATTACHMENT 14—FLYING MEF EXAMPLE                                                             69

ATTACHMENT 15—AIRFIELD OPERATING MEF EXAMPLE                                                 71

ATTACHMENT 16—TACTICAL DECISION AID EXAMPLE                                                  72


1. General Information.
   1.1. General.
      1.1.1. The 509th Operations Support Squadron Weather Flight (509 OSS/OSW) and the
      26th Operational Weather Squadron (26 OWS) are the official weather information
      agencies for and provide weather services to the 509th Bomb Wing (509 BW) and other
      units assigned to Whiteman AFB. Basic concepts and procedures are outlined in Air
      Force and major command (MAJCOM) directives.
      1.1.2. This instruction establishes requirements and procedures for weather support,
      which must be coordinated at the local level to meet mission needs. It consolidates
      weather support requirements and procedures for peacetime operations and eliminates the
      need for individual written agreements between the weather unit and supported
      operations. It does not cover weather support procedures for emergency war operations
      or certain other special operations or procedures. These are covered in applicable
      plans/regulations.
   1.2. Designators. All weather products disseminated by or for Whiteman AFB will use
   KSZL as the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) location indicator.
   1.3. Weather Operations.
      1.3.1. Operational Weather Squadrons are the authoritative source for environmental
      characterization in their respective AORs. The 26 OWS at Barksdale AFB, LA is
      responsible for collection of atmospheric data/information, analysis and prediction of the
      atmosphere, and generation of products based on this analysis and prediction for use by
      Weather Flights (WF) and other agencies in the southeastern CONUS. The 26 OWS
      performs meteorological watch (METWATCH) for supported installations and produces,
      disseminates, and amends Terminal Aerodrome Forecasts (TAFs).
      1.3.2. The primary purpose of the WF is to facilitate exploitation of the environment
      through integration into every phase of operations-planning and execution process. The
      WF assesses the mission environment to determine environmental threats, and where
      possible, find alternatives to mitigate those threats. The WF supports mission types
      including but not limited to: aviation and ground operations conducted at home station
      and deployed locations. The WF is also responsible to support other parent/host unit
      operations where success may depend on mitigation of environmental threats. The WF
      functions include staff integration, mission integration, and airfield support. The 26
      OWS is located: 66 Kenney Ave, Barksdale AFB, Louisiana 71110, Building 5576.
4                                                      WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


           1.3.2.1. Whiteman AFB installation data sheet and Memorandum of Agreement, 15-
           28, between 509 OSS/OSW and 26 OWS contains reciprocal weather information,
           products and services identifying support for Whiteman AFB operations.
    1.4. Assumptions. Adequate resources and communications will be available to execute
    this instruction and sufficient weather intelligence will be available from various sources on
    which to base weather operations and production.
    1.5. Shortfalls and Limiting Factors. The official observation point has blocked/limited
    visibility to the southwest quadrant due to its position in reference to Building 35. There are
    no limitations for airfield sensors.
    1.6. Duty Priorities. All base weather station tasks cannot be accomplished simultaneously.
    Therefore, duty priorities are established to ensure tasks are accomplished in order of relative
    importance and publicized to avoid misunderstanding among supported agencies. Duty
    priorities will ensure timely response to situations under normal conditions. However, the
    list will not replace good judgment. The weather technician may deviate in the best interest
    of flight safety and/or protection of personnel or property. The weather technician will use
    the following priority list as a guide for accomplishing duties.
       1.6.1. Complete Emergency War Order (EWO) Tasking.
       1.6.2. Execute Base Weather Station Evacuation.
       1.6.3. Respond to Aircraft/Ground Emergencies (e.g. Hotel Conferences/Toxic
       Corridors).
       1.6.4. Respond to Pilot-to-Metro Service (PMSV) Contacts.
       1.6.5. Disseminate     Observed       Warnings/Advisories.                         (Forecast
       Watches/Warnings/Advisories during OWS back-up).
       1.6.6. Provide Weather Information to the Supervisor-of-Flying (SOF).
       1.6.7. Perform Severe Weather Action Program (SWAP) Procedures.
       1.6.8. Augment AN/FMQ-19 Observations for Mandatory Elements.
       1.6.9. Provide ―Eyes Forward‖ / Collaborate with 26 OWS.
       1.6.10. Produce and Disseminate Mission Execution Forecasts (MEF).
       1.6.11. Relay Urgent PIREPs and Special AIREPs to 26 OWS.
       1.6.12. Disseminate PIREPs/AIREPs.
       1.6.13. Perform MISSIONWATCH Activities.
       1.6.14. Provide Weather Briefings.
       1.6.15. Conduct Weather Function Training.
       1.6.16. Accomplish Administrative Tasks.
    1.7. Geographic Area of Responsibility. The area of responsibility for products and
    services provided by the WF is the terminal area, which for the WF is the area located within
    a 5 nautical mile radius around the center of the Whiteman airfield complex. The WF will
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                               5


  also MISSIONWATCH all areas and routes in which Whiteman flying units are conducting
  operations.
  1.8. Operating Hours and Contact Information.
     1.8.1. Staff services are available from 0730CT to 1630CT, Monday through Friday,
     except federal holidays and wing down days.
     1.8.2. Weather technicians are available in the base weather station (BWS) or on stand-
     by to provide all services during airfield operating hours. Normal weather station
     operating hours are Monday (0000L) through Friday (2300L) and Saturday and Sunday
     (0700-1700L) with stand-by personnel available 24 hours a day. Current operating hours
     are subject to change and are available through Flight Information Publication booklets
     and Notice to Airmen messages. The BWS will open a minimum of 1 hour prior to the
     airfield opening.
     1.8.3. The WF technician can be contacted at DSN 975-3061/3062 or Comm (660) 687-
     3061/3062. The WF Superintendent can be reached at DSN 975-6117 and the WF
     Commander can be reached at Defense Switch Network (DSN) 975-6120.
     1.8.4. The 26 OWS is open 24-hours a day, 7 days a week. They are staffed with
     qualified weather forecasters and can be reached at DSN 331-2615.
  1.9. Back-up Weather Support. If weather operations at 26 OWS are interrupted (e.g.,
  power outage, natural disaster), the 26 OWS will contact the WF. When the interruption in
  weather operations at the 26 OWS is expected to be 72 hours or less, responsibility for local
  TAF and weather warning/watch/advisory (WWA) will transfer to the WF. If the
  interruption in weather operations is expected to last more than 72 hours, the 26 OWS will
  evaluate the situation and determine if augmentation is necessary.
     1.9.1. If interruption to OWS service occurs during WF closure, the WF Commander or
     Superintendent will determine whether or not the standby WF forecaster needs to be
     recalled or if METWATCH can be conducted from standby location.
  1.10. Base Weather Station Evacuation. If the WF is required to evacuate the BWS, they
  will relocate to the alternate operating location (AOL), which is at 442d Fighter Wing
  Headquarters, building 48, room 122, (AOL contact phone numbers DSN 975-3827/3828 or
  COMM 660-687-3827/3828) . Prior to departure and with time and safety considered, the
  WF will notify 509 BW Command Post, Tower, SOF (509th and 303rd), RAPCON, and 26
  OWS upon evacuation of the (BWS). Upon resumption of weather support at the primary or
  alternate location, the WF will contact all aforementioned agencies.
     1.10.1. AOL Limitations. If AN/FMQ-19 back-up needs to be performed with tactical
     equipment (i.e. Kestrel) wind, ALSTG and station pressure values will be estimated.
     There are no visibility obstructions at the AOL observation point.
     1.10.2. The 26 OWS will assume the following duties until the WF resumes operations:
         1.10.2.1. Perform METWATCH and MISSIONWATCH for flying operations and
         issue all terminal and flying area weather WWAs to the best of their ability.
         1.10.2.2. Mission Execution Forecast (MEF). If the WF is unable to produce flying
         MEFs from the alternate site, the 26 OWS will produce and update 175-1s for
 6                                                   WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


            Whiteman flying customers. The MEFs will be posted on the 26 OWS website under
            the Unit Tailored Pages link, Flight Wx Brief, Retrieve Briefing link.
        1.10.3. Upon arrival at Bldg 48, the WF will standup operations and notify 509 BW
        Command Post, Tower, SOF (509th and 303rd), RAPCON, 26 OWS, and all flying
        squadrons at Whiteman that they have resumed operations at the new site.
        1.10.4. The weather technician will provide the following services from the primary
        AOL:
            1.10.4.1. Monitor the FMQ-19 sensors via AFWS and augment if necessary. In case
            of a communication outage, the weather technician will take surface weather
            observations using the Kestrel and AF Form 3803, Surface Weather Observations
            (METAR/SPECI). The primary observing point is located on the northeast corner of
            the roof of Bldg 48. They will disseminate observations by phone or email. An
            observation will be taken within 15 minutes of arriving at AOL if the FMQ-19 or JET
            are inoperable and weather conditions warrant. The first observation will at a
            minimum contain prevailing visibility, present weather and obscurations, sky
            condition, wind direction and speed (estimated if using Kestrel), temperature and dew
            point, and altimeter setting (estimated if using Kestrel).
            1.10.4.2. Continue to issue and update MEFs if the capability exists. The Airfield
            MEF will continue to be updated on the WF webpage if possible. If the webpage is
            inaccessible, the MEF will be faxed or emailed to the flying squadrons.
            1.10.4.3. Provide METWATCH for Whiteman AFB from the AOL.                   Weather
            WWAs may be disseminated by phone if the AFWS is non-operational.
            1.10.4.4. Brief aircrews and MISSIONWATCH. Briefings will be conducted in-
            person at the new location, or by phone or fax.
        1.10.5. PMSV radio support will not be available from the AOL. However, radio
        frequency 344.6 MHz will be monitored by ATC and the command post will forward
        phone patches as described in paragraph 7.6.6.
        1.10.6. Timeliness and accuracy of services provided from the AOL may suffer due to
        limited communications and use of back-up equipment.
     1.11. Air Force Weather System (AFWS). The term AFWS is standard and used to
     identify the WF’s primary weather data dissemination system on Whiteman AFB. All
     required agencies will maintain a user account through the 509 OSS/OSW program manager
     at DSN 975-3061. It is recommended that accounts be current and operational at all times to
     receive weather updates as they occur. The 26 OWS will issue weather WWAs via the
     Integrated Weather Warning Capability (IWWC) and disseminate them through the AFWS.
     Examples of products disseminated over the AFWS are in Attachment 4.
2. Airfield Services Element
     2.1. General. Airfield services are actions taken by weather technicians pertaining to the
     Whiteman aerodrome (for WF purposes this is defined as the area within 5 nautical miles of
     the airfield’s center) and/or the base as a whole. Examples include weather observations,
     TAF, Airfield MEF, PMSV, and meteorological condition watch. The observing function of
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                7


   509 OSS/OSW, located in building 35, will maintain full operations while the airfield is
   open.
   2.2. Automated Surface Weather Observations. As a routine airfield service, the WF
   records and disseminates an official weather observation (METAR) at a minimum of every
   hour at the top of each hour. Additionally Special (SPECI) observations are generated during
   increased weather activity. Special observation criteria is outlined in Attachment 2.
   METAR code is broken down in Attachment 8 and examples are contained in Attachment
   4.
      2.2.1. AN/FMQ-19 AOS. The AN/FMQ-19 is an integrated system of multiple weather
      sensors and data automation components that continually measures environmental
      conditions to provide responsive, reliable, accurate, real-time weather information in
      support of flight operations. These measurements are processed to create properly
      formatted, fully automated observations that comply with applicable various reporting
      standards and protocols defined in the Federal Meteorological Handbook (FMH-1), the
      World Meteorological Organization (WMO), the Federal Aviation Administration
      (FAA), NWS and AFMAN 15-111, Surface Weather Observations.
      2.2.2. Automated Meteorological Observing Station Operations. In the automated mode,
      the system continually senses and measures the atmosphere for the following weather
      parameters: wind, visibility, precipitation/obscurations, cloud height, sky cover,
      temperature, dew point, and altimeter.
      2.2.3. Disseminating Automated Observations. AN/FMQ-19 automated observations will
      be disseminated through the AFWS communications interface. If the AFWS is
      inoperable, observations will be disseminated by phone to the tower/SOF. Examples of
      weather observations disseminated at Whiteman AFB can be found in Attachment 4.
   2.3. Supplementary Augmentation of AN/FMQ-19. Augmentation is the process of
   having position-qualified weather technicians manually add or edit data to an observation
   generated by a properly sited AN/FMQ-19. The two augmentation processes used are
   supplementing and back-up. Supplementing is a method of manually adding meteorological
   information to an automated observation that is beyond the capabilities of the AN/FMQ-19 to
   detect and/or report. Back-up is the method of manually providing meteorological data
   and/or dissemination to an AN/FMQ-19 observation when the primary automated method is
   not operational or unavailable due to sensor and/or communication failure.
      2.3.1. When supplementing the automated observing system, the weather technician
      must maintain situational awareness of current weather conditions and the system-
      generated observation. While some days may require more effort to maintain situational
      awareness than others, the system is set-up and designed to require minimal review.
      Mandatory supplementing of the AN/FMQ-19 by a certified weather technician must
      occur when any of the following are forecasted to occur or are observed from the airfield:

Table 2.1. Conditions for Mandatory AN/FMQ-19 Supplementing - Body of Report
1. Tornadoes (+FC), Funnel Clouds (FC), Waterspouts (+FC) (NOTE1).
2. Hail (GS (<1/4‖) or GR (>1/4‖)) (Local warning criteria – Any hail)
3. Volcanic Ash (VA) is observed from the airfield.
 8                                                    WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


4. Any weather element deemed operationally significant that is beyond the capabilities of the
automated weather observing system (see table 2.3. for criteria).

Table 2.2. Conditions for Mandatory AN/FMQ-19 Supplementing – Remarks Report
1. Funnel Cloud (Tornadic Activity _B/E(hh)mm_Loc/DIR_(MOV)) (NOTE 1).
2. Snow Depth (only during airfield operating hours and if heavy snow warning has been
issued and snowfall is occurring)
Note 1: The immediate reporting of funnel clouds takes precedent over any other phenomena.
     2.4. Back-up Augmentation of AN/FMQ-19. Back-up (editing) is the process of providing
     meteorological data when the AN/FMQ-19 is unavailable, or when an element is
     unrepresentative and operationally significant. Back-up of the AN/FMQ-19 by the weather
     technician provides the minimum acceptable level of available data for meteorological
     operations and the support of aviation operations in the event of a partial or total AN/FMQ-
     19 failure.
        2.4.1. To perform back-up duties, the weather technician must remain aware of current
        weather conditions and AN/FMQ-19 observations.              In the case of conflicting
        responsibilities or tasks, the weather technician will use the ORM process and posted
        duty priorities to determine which takes precedence, with the highest priority being flight
        safety.
        2.4.2. Back-up will occur when the airfield is open or when severe weather action
        procedures have been implemented during non-operational hours. All conditions in the
        main body of the observation will be backed-up to ensure availability and proper
        representation of actual meteorological conditions. Most automated, manual, plain
        language and additive data remarks will be backed-up. The complete list of back-up
        parameters is in AFMAN 15-111, Attachment 3, Table A.3.1. Required back-up
        remarks are included in Table 2.3 below.

Table 2.3. AN/FMQ-19 Remarks Required to be Backed-Up
Augmented Unit Indicator (AO2A)
Peak Wind (PK_WND_dddff(f)/(hh)mm)
Wind Shift (WSHFT_(hh)mm)
Variable Prevailing Visibility (VIS_vnvnvnvnvnVvxvxvxvxvx)
Lightning (LTG[LOC])
Beginning/Ending of Thunderstorms (TSB(hh)mmE(hh)mm)
Variable Ceiling Height (CIG_hnhnhnVhxhxhx)
Variable Sky Condition (NSNSNS(hShShS)_V_NSNSNS) [Plain Language]
Pressure Rising/Falling Rapidly (PRESRR/PRESFR)
Sea Level Pressure (SLPppp)
3- and 6-Hour Precipitation Amount (6RRRR)
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                               9


RVRNO (RVRNO)
Maintenance Indicator ($)

  2.5. Back-Up Surface Observing. During complete FMQ-19 outages, weather personnel
  take official weather observations hourly and when certain special criteria are met (see
  Attachment 2 for criteria.) The weather technician will relay all pertinent information, such
  as changing weather conditions, to 26 OWS as part of the ―eyes forward‖ function (see
  paragraph 2.9). Weather technicians take all observations IAW AFMAN 15-111 and
  AFMAN 15-129. The official point of observation for Whiteman AFB is located on the
  grassy area outside building 35 at the corner of Community Court and Flight Line Road.
      2.5.1. When wind equipment is inoperative, the WF will notify the Control Tower and
      RAPCON that the winds will be estimated.
      2.5.2. Basic Weather Watch (BWW). Weather personnel normally conduct a BWW
      from the BWS. Due to other duties, along with other restrictions such as a BWS design
      that does not allow a 360-degree view of the runway complex, etc., weather personnel
      cannot monitor the weather continuously and cannot be expected to detect and report all
      weather changes as they occur. In addition to taking and disseminating required
      observations, the BWW observing program includes minimum requirements to recheck
      weather conditions at intervals not to exceed 20 minutes since the last
      observation/recheck, to determine the need for a SPECI observation, when any of the
      following conditions are observed to be occurring or are forecast to occur within 1 hour:
          2.5.2.1. Ceiling forms below or decreases to less than 1,500 feet.
          2.5.2.2. Ceiling dissipates, or increases to equal or exceed 1,500 feet.
          2.5.2.3. Visibility decreases to less than 3 miles.
          2.5.2.4. Visibility increases to equal or exceed 3 miles.
          2.5.2.5. Precipitation (any form).
          2.5.2.6. Thunderstorms
          2.5.2.7. Fog or Mist.
          2.5.2.8. In addition to the above minimum requirements, weather personnel will
          remain alert for any other changes in weather conditions that will require a SPECI
          observation.
          2.5.2.9. When a reliable source (ATC personnel, pilots, off-base law enforcement,
          509th Security Forces Squadron (509 SFS), etc.) reports weather conditions different
          from the last report, weather personnel will recheck the weather and, if required,
          disseminate a new observation.
  2.6. Aircraft Mishap Procedures. Augmented units will check the latest AN/FMQ-19
  observation (i.e., METAR/SPECI/OMO (one minute observation)) and perform
  augmentation/back-up as required.
      2.6.1. Because AN/FMQ-19 automatically prepares and archives an observation every
      minute, weather units are not required to include an aircraft mishap remark in the
10                                                  WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


     observation. Dissemination is not required unless AN/FMQ-19 has generated a pending
     METAR or SPECI observation.
     2.6.2. Augmented units will collect and save data related to an aircraft mishap according
     to instructions in AFMAN 15-129. Managers of automated units will retrieve the
     archived surface observation data from AN/FMQ-19 when required by the requesting
     agency.
  2.7. Hotel Conference. 509th Bomb Wing Command Post (509 BW/CP) will initiate a
  warble tone across the BW/OG Net then an announcement of a Hotel Conference. After all
  members have been polled, and Spirit Control asks for weather, WF will verbally transmit
  the following in the order shown:
     2.7.1. Ceiling/Visibility/Weather/RVR.
     2.7.2. Temperature/Dew Point & Wind Direction/Speed/Gusts.
     2.7.3. Any significant remarks.
     2.7.4. Weather Warnings, Watches or Advisories in effect for SZL.
     2.7.5. A brief one-hour forecast noting significant changes impacting the area.
  2.8. Cooperative Weather Watch (CWW). A CWW is a program wherein qualified non-
  weather personnel assist weather technicians in monitoring the weather conditions. CWW
  assists in the reporting of weather conditions which could affect flight safety or which could
  be critical to the safety or efficiency of other local operations and resources. Since tower
  controllers have a complete 360-degree view of the airfield complex, a CWW agreement
  exists between ATC and the BWS. Assistance is provided IAW AFI 13-204V3, Airfield
  Operations and Procedures and Programs.
     2.8.1. The WF will provide initial and if requested, assist in annual recertification
     weather training to all ATC controllers in support of the CWW and ATC Limited
     Observation programs. The WF will train all ATC personnel to take tower visibility
     measurements. In addition, ATC personnel will be trained to pass PIREP information.
     2.8.2. When informed by ATC personnel of significant weather events (see Chapter 7,
     paragraph. 7.9.2.5.), the WF weather technician will verify/validate weather conditions
     and disseminate appropriately as a local, special or within-the-hour observation. When
     the tower reports weather conditions different from the last disseminated observation, the
     weather technician will reevaluate the weather conditions. Based on reevaluation of the
     different weather conditions reported and local policy, the technician will:
         2.8.2.1. Begin augmentation of AN/FMQ-19 and send SPECI observation if different
         conditions warrant immediate dissemination. Note: The WF will not include a tower
         visibility remark in automated or augmented observations.
         2.8.2.2. Include the report of the differing conditions in the next METAR or SPECI
         observation if the different conditions alone do not warrant immediate dissemination.
  2.9. Eyes Forward.
     2.9.1. The WF integrates weather radar data, meteorological satellite imagery, lightning
     detection readouts, and non-standard weather data systems to create an integrated weather
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                               11


     picture and near-term trend forecast for the 26 OWS. The ―eyes forward‖ function yields
     meaningful meteorological information not contained in coded observations to the OWS
     and is an integral part of the METWATCH for Whiteman AFB.
     2.9.2. The WF will provide the "eyes forward" function by providing significant
     information to 26 OWS concerning local area weather patterns and un-forecasted
     changes. The WF will contact 26 OWS when:
         2.9.2.1. Severe weather signatures on radar displays or METSAT imagery are
         identified that will affect the Whiteman AFB installation or mission.
         2.9.2.2. Watch, warning and/or advisory criteria are occurring or forecast to occur
         and 26 OWS has yet to issue one. Additionally, when local mission-watch indicates a
         26 OWS-issued watch, warning, and/or advisory is, or may become, unrepresentative
         of current or expected weather conditions. The WF will also ensure the 26 OWS
         receives severe weather reports in the area of concern received from local news media
         or unit/base personnel.
         2.9.2.3. When local weather phenomena are forecast to occur (next 30 minutes) and
         will affect    26 OWS and WF products (i.e., TAFs and MEFs). The WF will also
         contact 26 OWS when significant forecast elements on 26 OWS products are not
         expected to occur. Communication is key to helping the 26 OWS technicians
         anticipate changes and subsequently adjust forecast products.
         2.9.2.4. When all observed weather advisories and the observed weather warnings for
         lightning are issued.
         2.9.2.5. When surface observations or other information (e.g., PIREPs) cause 26
         OWS-issued TAFs for Whiteman AFB to be "out of category" or weather information
         indicates WF-issued MEFs will cross operational thresholds.
  2.10. Terminal Aerodrome Forecast (TAF).
     2.10.1. Dissemination. Weather technicians at the 26 OWS will prepare and disseminate
     a TAF via the AFWWS. Unless otherwise specified, forecast elements in the main body
     of the forecast text apply to the area within a 5 statue mile radius of the Whiteman AFB
     airfield complex. Issue times are driven by airfield operating hours/requirements and the
     OWS production cycle: during 24-hour operations TAFs are issued every eight hours;
     during periods of airfield closure/limited duty operations the initial TAF is issued at the
     standard TAF hour prior to airfield opening or upon request by the WF, then at the
     established routine production hours, valid at 1100Z, 1900Z and 0300Z. See
     Attachment 8 for TAF code breakdown.
     2.10.2. Amendment Criteria. Amendment criteria are listed in Attachment 3 and are
     specified IAW AFMAN 15-129 and mutually agreed upon criteria specific to the mission
     needs of customers at Whiteman AFB.
  2.11. B-2 Engine Run Time (ERT). Anytime the temperature is 43 degrees Fahrenheit or
  less the WF issues the ERT advisory and documents the ERT on the notification log and
  disseminates the current reading over the Motorola desk set (OG Net) until the advisory is
  cancelled. If     509 BW SOF (FOXTROT) or Operations Supervisor (Top 3/MADDOG)
  does not acknowledge receipt over the radio, they will be called by phone. Per AFI 11-2B-
 12                                                  WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


   2V3, B-2--Operations Procedures, WAFB Addendum A the WF will provide updates every
   15 minutes, or less as needed, during periods of rapidly changing conditions. The
   information relayed will include current ERT (temperature/dew point) conditions and
   predicted ERT (temperature/dew point) conditions. ERT calculations of 60 minutes or less
   will require the WF to monitor temperature, dew point, and visibility at a minimum of every
   15 minutes. See Attachment 9 for Engine Induction Icing Ground Run Times.
   2.11.1. Temperature and dew point data for ERT readings are obtained from the FMQ-19
   (North runway) and three Weather Hawk Sensors (located on flight line). ERTs are
   determined based on the weather sensing device providing data which requires the lowest run
   time.
   2.12. Winter Weather.
      2.12.1. WF personnel will notify and keep the 509 OSS/OSA staff updated when any
      freezing precipitation or snow is expected at Whiteman AFB. During airfield
      management closure, the forecaster will contact the designated airfield staff member and
      509th Civil Engineer Squadron (509 CES) snow control. During WF closure, snow
      control leaders will contact the 26 OWS for snowfall forecasts.
      2.12.2. During the winter season the WF will provide the 509th Mission Support Group
      Commander (509 MSG/CC) (through the 509th Operations Support Squadron
      Commander (509 OSS/CC) the current weather conditions and the 6-, 12- and 24-hour
      forecasts. The on-duty forecaster will predict estimated snowfall and/or continuing
      hazardous weather conditions. Ref. WAFI 36-801.
3. Mission Services Element
   3.1. General. Mission services are actions taken by weather technicians pertaining to the
   effective accomplishment of Whiteman’s flying sorties (both training and operational). The
   WF will develop and maintain a Mission Execution Forecast Process (MEFP) that provides
   or arranges for flight weather services for aircrews departing Whiteman AFB. MEFs, the end
   result, are a weather information resource produced in a format agreed to by the user and
   tailored to meet specific mission requirements that are focused on the commander’s needs
   and objectives, and can be integrated into the planning process early to successfully plan and
   execute military operations. Additionally, the WF will provide decision-grade information
   that clearly and concisely defines the environmental impacts to missions, platforms, weapon
   systems, targets, tactics, and mission timing.
   3.2. Flying Mission Execution Forecasts.
      3.2.1. Flying MEFs. The MEF acts as the official source of weather information for
      flying operations. They will be delivered in the format and at the time and place of the
      user’s request following the guidelines and principles outlined within this instruction.
      Below are the types of Flying MEFs produced:
          3.2.1.1. Verbal Brief. Aircrew members can choose to receive mission weather
          information verbally without the use of the hard copy MEF. In such cases, the WF
          will maintain a log recording information passed to the aircrew as well as the brief
          time and an aircrew member initials.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                13


        3.2.1.2. Whiteman ―Flying MEF‖ Form Brief. This form is similar to the 175-1
        weather brief. It is tailored to individual missions and is useful for aircrews (local or
        transient) flying one- or multi-stop missions with or without en route events (AR,
        Range, MOA, etc.) The WF will ensure these MEF briefings are available to
        aircrews as directed. Typically, B-2 aircrew briefs will be ready no later than (NLT)
        3 hours prior to take-off. Other flying missions will be supplied briefs on an as-
        requested basis. Attachment 14 provides an example of the Whiteman AFB Flying
        MEF.
        3.2.1.3. Web-based Self Brief. The WF will maintain and provide access to Web-
        based weather information for use by aircrews (local and transient) while flight
        planning or when receiving execution weather briefs remotely by phone. The
        Airfield Operating MEF and B-2 Tomorrow’s Planning MEF are examples that can
        be found on the WF’s SharePoint Site.
     3.2.2. Special / Higher Headquarters Mission Briefings. The WF will provide
     specific briefings for special or higher headquarters missions as directed by operations
     order, fragment order, message, etc. Aircrew and/or staff weather briefings will be
     presented in person by WF at the time and location desired by requester.
     3.2.3. Supervisor of Flying (SOF). At the request of either the 509 BW SOF
     (FOXTROT) or the 442 FW/303 FS SOF, WF will verbally brief the local flying
     conditions, alternate base forecasts, and other weather data that may affect flying
     activities.
        3.2.3.1. WF will provide an Airfield Operating MEF or verbal brief when requested
        by the 509 BW SOF and during the SOF assumption and change-over briefings.
        3.2.3.2. 442 FW/303FS SOF can review/print the Airfield Operating MEF via the
        WF’s SharePoint Site.
     3.2.4. Planning MEF. The WF will provide a Planning MEF by 0500L (Monday-Friday
     mornings). Weekend duty forecasters will also be responsible for producing/posting the
     Planning MEF by 1000L (Saturday – Sunday) to support the next full day of Whiteman
     AFB flying. The PLANNING MEF will focus on the next day flying window (1100Z –
     0500Z or 0600L – 2400L). Attachment 12 provides an example of the Planning MEF.
     Briefings include:
        3.2.4.1. Hazards and flight level winds.
        3.2.4.2. Surface forecast for target areas and other areas of interest.
        3.2.4.3. Forecasts for takeoff, recovery, MOA’s/Ranges, air refueling tracks and
        alternate bases. Takeoff/recovery data will include KSZL [temps (F), dew points (F),
        engine run times, altimeter settings, pressure altitude, and winds].
        3.2.4.4. Lunar and solar data.
        3.2.4.5. Contrail data.
        3.2.4.6. Any other planning factors, as requested or required by mission profile (e.g.
        sea surface temperatures).
     3.2.5. Tactical Decision Aids (TDAs).
14                                                  WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


         3.2.5.1. The WF will utilize the Target Acquisition Weapons Software (TAWS)
         program. The WF will reference the 442 FW flying schedule to determine the need
         for TDAs. Generally, TDAs will be created for two periods of flying or as required
         for range support. TDAs will be made available on the WF’s SharePoint Site NLT 3
         hours prior to takeoff.
         3.2.5.2. For an accurate TDA the following information is needed: Time over
         Target, latitude/longitude of target location, sensor type, munitions being used,
         dimensions of target, if the target is a building, whether the target is heated or not,
         attack altitude, and for training purposes, the attack heading. Attachment 16
         provides an example of a TDA.
  3.3. MISSIONWATCH. The WF will conduct a continuous MISSIONWATCH of all
  routes and flying areas used by Whiteman flying units during the times they are using them.
  The WF will relay weather WWAs detailed in Attachment 6 and any significant changes in
  weather conditions previously briefed to the SOF (FOXTROT) and Operations Supervisor
  (Top3/MADDOG). During emergency situations or rapidly changing conditions, the WF
  will immediately notify the SOF and Operations Supervisor.
  3.4. Mission Weather Verification. The WF tracks all sorties that received a Whiteman
  Flying MEF Brief and performs a GO/NO GO verification for forecast conditions at takeoff,
  the mission area (AR, Range, MOA, etc), and landing. Results are heavily dependent on
  customer/operator feedback via the weather debrief form in PEX. The results are reported to
  the 509th Operations Support Squadron Commander (509 OSS/CC) monthly and utilized in
  MEFP improvement to mitigate environmental impacts to future missions.
  3.5. Pilot-to-Metro Service (PMSV). The WF will provide full service PMSV on the
  assigned UHF frequency of 344.6 MHz or via phone patches to (COM: 660-687-3061/3062
  or DSN: 94-975-3061/3062). Aircrews are highly encouraged to relay pilot reports during
  PMSV contacts.
     3.5.1. The WF will check the PMSV radio to ensure operational status at least once daily
     with the control tower or an aircraft. Notify tower, base operations, command post, and
     Communications Focal Point of PMSV status/outage.
     3.5.2. The WF will notify 509 OSS/OSAA of extended PMSV outages lasting more than
     1 hour for incorporation into NOTAMs.
  3.6. Space Weather Support. Space weather data and forecasts for Whiteman AFB
  customers are available upon request. Information available includes space weather impacts
  on radio frequencies and the Global Positioning System (GPS).
  3.7. Toxic Corridors. IAW AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM)
  Program Planning and Operations, the WF will provide the 509 CES/CEX with weather
  data so they can calculate toxic corridors for chemical spills. The WF will not be responsible
  for producing toxic corridors.
  3.8. Chemical Downwind Messages: The WF will provide weather inputs to Chemical
  Downwind Messages upon request from Emergency Operations Center personnel for disaster
  response, chemical/nuclear attack, and exercise purposes via the 26 OWS website.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                 15


   3.9. Airfield Operating Mission Execution Forecast (MEF). This MEF contains hourly
   forecast weather information pertaining to Whiteman. In addition, MOAs and ranges of the
   day will be included when necessary. It is designed for local use and is issued to the weather
   SharePoint site no later than 1/2 hour after the issuance of each TAF and/or TAF amendment.
   The weather information in this MEF is valid for 12 hours, in one hour increments, and will
   be updated every eight hours or as needed by the weather technician to reflect the current
   conditions, forecast changes and/or support of local flying operations.
      3.9.1. The 1130Z and 1930Z MEFs are produced 7 days a week (as local flying
      requires). The 0330Z MEF will be produced and posted as required to support scheduled
      local flying and if flying briefings are required prior to the 1130Z MEF post time.
      3.9.2. Specification and Amendment Criteria. The Airfield Operating MEF will be
      reviewed continuously and updated / amended anytime specification criteria are met or
      when a new TAF has been issued for Whiteman AFB. Specification Criteria for the
      Airfield Operating MEF will begin with ceilings and visibilities (CIG/VIS) of 5000/5 and
      1500/1. In addition, the amendment criterion below needs to be specified. This MEF
      will be checked every two hours at a minimum and amended appropriately. Amendments
      are required when any of the thresholds below are met:

Table 3.1. Airfield MEF Amendment Criteria.
1. CIG/VIS: >=3000/3, 1000/2, 700/1, 300
2. Surface Winds: >30 degree difference in wind direction with 10 kts or > in spd (including
gusts)
3. Temperature: 3 degrees Celsius or greater or 5 degrees Fahrenheit or greater
4. Icing: Any icing forecast or differing by a reportable value for SZL
5. Turbulence: LGT-MDT or greater (Cat II) forecast or differs by reportable value for SZL
6. Thunderstorms and Precipitation forecast or change for SZL
7. B-2 Induction Icing: Forecast or change in Run time
8. Altimeter Setting: > .09 QNS difference
9. An issued weather watch, warning and or advisory
      3.9.3. The current Airfield Operating MEF is available from the weather SharePoint
      page: https://whiteman.eis.af.mil/int/509thBW/509thOG/oss/OSW/default.aspx. See
      Attachment 15 for an example.
4. Staff Weather Element
   4.1. Wing Standup. Presented in person Monday thru Thursday at 1500L, or as requested
   by the 509th Bomb Wing Commander (509 BW/CC). (POC: 509 MOC – 687-1950)
   Briefing held in Bldg. 509, Spirit Conference Room. Briefing normally presented by Severe
   Weather Standby Management. The content of the briefing is flexible, but will include a
   current satellite/radar/surface depiction and a 5-day forecast for Whiteman AFB with
   impacts. Attachment 13 provides an example of the 5-day forecast with impacts.
   4.2. 509 BW Staff Meeting. Presented in person on Wednesday at 1000L or as requested
   by the 509 BW/CC. (POC: 509 BW/CCA) Briefing held in Bldg. 509, Spirit Conference
   Room. Briefing normally presented by Severe Weather Standby Management. The content
16                                                    WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


  of the briefing is flexible, but will include a current satellite/radar/surface depiction and a 5-
  day forecast for Whiteman AFB.
  4.3. Commander’s Senior Staff. Presented when a Unrestricted Commander’s Senior Staff
  recall is announced. Normally presented by Command Meteorologist, Operational
  Meteorologist or for immediate recall, first weather technician available will attend the
  contingency/exercise briefing. The format of the briefing will be tailored to the scenario
  driving the Commander’s Senior Staff’s formation. At a minimum, the briefing will include
  current satellite/radar/surface depiction, a 24 hour impact slide and a 5-day forecast for
  Whiteman AFB. Other information will be briefed as requested.
  4.4. Special Assignment Airlift Mission (SAAM). 19 MUNS Munitions Accountable
  Systems Officer (MASO) will notify WF by calling extension 687-3061. WF will provide 5-
  day forecast to the MASO no earlier than the day of the brief. A weather briefer will attend
  the meeting, generally held in Building 509, Spirit Conference Room.
  4.5. Mobility Concept/Pre-deployment Briefing. Presented in person, requested by
  Installation Deployment Officer, deployment staff will print a 5-day hard copy from weather
  SharePoint site (upon request hand-carry 5-day PowerPoint soft copy). As a minimum, the
  briefing will include forecast conditions at Whiteman AFB for departure time, deployed area
  climatology, and forecast conditions for destination arrival time. Other topics will be briefed
  as required. Operational Meteorologist or representative will go to the Mobility Center,
  Building 705.
  4.6. Instrument Refresher Course (IRC). A WF representative will provide a local
  weather effects briefing to all IRC classes. The briefing format is dependent on the season
  and includes climatology, seasonal threats, and weather products. IRC schedulers will
  provide the WF with a schedule of upcoming IRCs as early in the process as possible.
  4.7. Climatology Support. A WF representative will maintain a monthly and yearly
  climatology report and distribution list. The Climatology monitor will send a recertification
  letter and questionnaire once a year in June to those on the climatology report distribution
  list.
     4.7.1. Whiteman Army Aviation Support Facility (AASF). Climatology briefings will be
     presented twice a year, normally in spring and fall. These in-person briefings include
     information on seasonal hazards to flight. Coordinate with Battalion Director of
     Operations.
     4.7.2. Climatic data for Whiteman AFB. Data will be faxed or emailed to the agencies
     listed below monthly and as requested. Data will include daily and monthly high and low
     temperatures, mean temperature, heating degree days, cooling degree days, total
     precipitation, total snowfall, maximum snow depth, days with thunderstorms, days with
     fog, peak wind direction, and peak wind speed.
         4.7.2.1. 509th Civil Engineering Squadron (509 CES/CEAO, 509 CES/CEOFE, 509
         CES/CEOIB).
         4.7.2.2. 509th Contracting Squadron (509 CONS/LGCA).
         4.7.2.3. US Army Corp of Engineers (USACE-NWK-EC-MW).
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                   17


      4.7.3. Other climatology data will be available upon request including data for other
      locations. Requests should be made at least two business days in advance in order to
      allow the WF to research and compile the data available from 14 WS
   4.8. Emergency Operations Center (EOC) Support. The WF will provide trained and
   qualified weather technicians to support the 509 BW EOC. The weather technicians will
   assist the EOC with weather related issues, not operations or airfield issues. They will ensure
   the EOC commander is aware of pertinent meteorological conditions to assist with attack
   actions, natural disasters, major accident response and Department of Energy Safe Haven for
   National Defense Area procedures. Additionally, the WF will provide weather input for
   chemical/effective downwind messages (CDMs/EDMs) as necessary to 509 CES/CEX
   representatives based on upper-air wind data. REF: Whiteman AFB Air Force Global Strike
   Command Emergency Management OPLAN 10-2.
   4.9. Air Traffic Control Limited Observation Program. All tower controllers must
   receive local weather familiarization (to include tower visibility observation training) and
   participate in Cooperative Weather Watch IAW AFMAN 15-111. WF leadership/personnel
   will assist with coordination of tower visibility observation training and certification. Initial
   documentation of limited weather certifications will be documented on AF Form 3622, Air
   Traffic Control/Weather Certification and Rating Record (LRA), and signed off by a
   designated weather examiner.
   4.10. Other Briefing Support. Any other support will be given as requested or arranged
   through the WF leadership.
5. Meteorological Watch.
   5.1. General.
      5.1.1. The 26 OWS and the WF will jointly monitor observed and forecast weather
      conditions and notify selected agencies when pre-established weather conditions occur or
      are expected to occur.
      5.1.2. Desired Lead Time. Advanced warning of threatening weather conditions allows
      local agencies to take specific actions prior to occurrence. The desired lead-time is the
      minimum amount of advanced notice an agency requires prior to the onset of a particular
      weather phenomenon.
      5.1.3. All weather WWAs are issued IAW AFMAN 15-129. Warnings and advisories
      may be issued as forecast or observed. They are specialized products of the
      METWATCH and are issued to customers for use in making operational decisions and
      taking protective actions. Customers must regularly review their operational need for
      WWAs. Coordinate additions, changes and/or deletions with the weather flight
      commander or the superintendent.
      5.1.4. The WF may issue or supersede a 26 OWS issued weather warning only when
      imminent weather conditions pose a hazard to life or property and prior coordination with
      26 OWS is not practical or communications do not allow. The WF will be responsible
      for local dissemination and contact 26 OWS as soon as possible afterward so 26 OWS
      can assume responsibility/ accountability.
   5.2. Responsibilities.
 18                                                  WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


      5.2.1. The 26 OWS will perform a continuous Terminal METWATCH for Whiteman
      AFB. They will issue all forecast Whiteman AFB weather WWAs. When the WF is
      closed, the      26 OWS will issue and disseminate all observed weather warnings and
      advisories meeting criteria in Tables 5.2 and 5.3.
      5.2.2. WF will perform ―eyes forward‖ function as outlined in paragraph 2.9 assisting
      with METWATCH for the Whiteman AFB terminal area and advise the 26 OWS when
      hazardous conditions that could affect Whiteman AFB, or pose a hazard to life or
      property, are observed or expected to occur.
      5.2.3. Other Whiteman units will assist IAW reciprocal support outlined in Chapter 7.
   5.3. Weather Watches. A weather watch is a special notice provided to supported
   customers that alerts them of a POTENTIAL for weather conditions of such intensity as to
   pose a hazard to life or property for which the customer must take protective action.
   Whenever meteorological conditions are favorable or forecast to be favorable for such
   conditions to develop, the 26 OWS or the WF will issue a weather watch for Whiteman AFB,
   valid for a given time period. The text of the weather watch will contain all essential
   information. Watches are issued to alert organizations to the potential for occurrence of
   certain elements for planning/preparation purposes. As the chances of the element's
   occurring get sufficiently high, a forecast warning will be issued (except for lightning within
   10nm or 5nm). In the case of lightning within 50nm, 25nm, 10nm, or 5nm, as the element is
   actually observed, an observed advisory/warning will be issued. Remember, however, not all
   watches will necessarily be followed by a forecast or observed warning. Finally, to allow
   timely notification, personnel should refrain from calling the WF unless it is absolutely
   necessary. Table 5.1 contains watch criteria.

Table 5.1. Forecast Weather Watch Criteria and Associated Desired Lead-Times.
                           Criteria                                 Desired           Issuing
                                                                   Lead-Time          Agency
Tornado Watch. Issued whenever meteorological conditions           As Potential       26 OWS
are favorable for tornado development that may threaten             Warrants
Whiteman AFB.
Hail. Issued whenever meteorological conditions are                As Potential       26 OWS
favorable for hail.*                                                Warrants
Surface Winds 35 Knots or Greater Watch. Issued                    As Potential       26 OWS
whenever meteorological conditions are favorable for wind           Warrants
speeds 35 knots or greater.
Freezing Precipitation Watch. Issued whenever                      As Potential       26 OWS
meteorological conditions are favorable for freezing                Warrants
precipitation development on the base.
Heavy Snow (2" or more within 12 hours) Watch. Issued              As Potential       26 OWS
whenever meteorological conditions are favorable for heavy          Warrants
snow over Whiteman AFB in which two inches of snow is
possible within 12 hours or less.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                  19


 Blizzard Conditions Watch. Issued whenever                        As Potential       26 OWS
 meteorological conditions are favorable for considerable           Warrants
 falling or blowing snow lasting for three hours or more with
 wind speeds of 30 knots or greater and visibility less than or
 equal to 1/4 mile.
 Lightning within 5NM Watch. Issued whenever                       30 Minutes         26 OWS
 meteorological conditions are favorable for lightning to occur
 within a 5nm radius from the center point of the runway.
 Issued with at least a 30 minute lead-time and cancelled
 promptly when potential for lightning within 5nm no longer
 exists.
Note: Maximum values will be specified in text.
   5.4. Weather Warnings. Weather warning support is an important aspect of the
   METWATCH concept. A weather warning is a special notice provided to supported
   customers when weather conditions are forecast to be of such intensity as to pose a hazard
   to life or property are imminent or occurring. The 26 OWS and WF issue all weather
   warnings, upgrades/downgrades, extensions, and cancellations for a five (5) nautical mile
   radius of the runway midpoint (unless otherwise stated in the text of the warning (e.g.
   observed lightning within 10nm).
       5.4.1. Weather warning criteria are divided into "observed" and "forecast" criteria.
       Observed weather warnings are issued by the WF whenever the criteria is observed or
       reported, and canceled when the criteria ceases. Forecast weather warnings are issued
       with an expected valid period (i.e., criteria forecast to occur during this period). Table
       5.2 contains warning criteria.

Table 5.2. Weather Warning Criteria and Associated Desired Lead-Times
                            Criteria                                 Desired          Issuing
                                                                   Lead-Time          Agency
 Tornadoes                                                          15 minutes        26 OWS
 Hail* (any size)                                                   90 minutes        26 OWS
 Damaging winds > 35 knots *                                        90 minutes        26 OWS
 Freezing precipitation                                             90 minutes        26 OWS
 Heavy snow (2" or more snowfall in < 12 hours)*                    90 minutes        26 OWS
 Blizzard Conditions                                                90 minutes        26 OWS
 Observed lightning within 5NM, 10NM                               As Observed          WF
Note: Maximum values will be specified in text.
   5.5. Weather Advisories. A weather advisory (WA) is a special notice provided to a
   supported agency when an established weather condition, which could affect its operation,
   is occurring or is expected to occur. The 26 OWS and the WF provides all weather
   advisories for Whiteman AFB. A WA is issued for "Whiteman AFB" and covers an area
   within a five nautical mile radius of the center point of the runway unless otherwise stated in
   the advisory.
 20                                                   WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


       5.5.1. Forecast Weather Advisories (FWA). Forecast advisories are issued IAW
       AFMAN 15-129 and local criteria. Forecast weather advisories are issued with an
       expected valid period (i.e. criteria forecast to occur during this period). Whiteman
       currently has no FWA criteria.
       5.5.2. Observed Weather Advisories. Observed weather advisories are issued whenever
       the criteria is first observed or reported and cancelled when the criteria ceases. Observed
       advisories will be issued by the 26 OWS when the WF is closed and the OWS has the
       capability to sense the phenomena and issue the advisory in a timely fashion. Table 5.3
       contains observed advisory criteria.

Table 5.3. Weather Advisory Criteria and Associated Desired Lead-Times.
                            Criteria                                Desired            Issuing
                                                                   Lead-Time           Agency
 Crosswinds > 25 knots (Note 1)                                    As observed           WF
  (Issued during airfield operating hours only)
 Crosswinds > 15 knots                                             As observed           WF
 (Issued during airfield operating hours only)
 Potential for B-2 Induction Icing (Note 1, 2 & 3)                 As observed           WF
 Wind Chill reading –15°F to -44°F (Note 3)                        As observed           WF
 Wind Chill reading -45°F to -65°F (Note 3)                        As observed           WF
 Wind Chill reading < -65°F (Note 3)                               As observed           WF
 Surface Winds ≥25 kts but <35kts (Note 3)                         As observed           WF
 Lightning within 25NM, 50NM (Note 4)                              As Observed           WF
Note 1: Any additional WA's for deployed aircraft will be coordinated with the 509 OSS/OSW
commander (command meteorologist).
Note 2: Criteria for potential B-2 induction icing is when the outside air temperature is 43F.
The weather flight will keep the FOXTROT and MADDOG updated on any engine runtimes
according to operations runtime matrix in Attachment 9.
Note 3: 26 OWS will issue this observed advisory when the WF is closed.
Note 4: During WF closure, the 26 OWS will notify the 509 BW/CP when lightning is observed
within 50NM or 25NM advisory is issued. The 509 BW/CP will immediately notify the WF
standby forecaster.
   5.6. Dissemination of Watches/Warnings/Advisories. The 26 OWS will disseminate
   weather WWAs via standard communication systems (e.g., NIPRNET, SIPRNET) and AFW
   meteorological communication systems such as IWWC. All weather WWAs will be
   disseminated to AFWWS. Telephone confirmation will be used to ensure the command post,
   base operations, and the tower/SOF has received them. If the AFWS is inoperative, WWAs
   will be disseminated by phone to the same agencies. The command post and base operations
   will disseminate information to the agencies listed in Attachment 5.
   5.7. Weather Warning/Watch/Advisory Text Format. The text of weather WWAs will
   contain the WWA number, the specific valid time period (until further notice for observed
   products), and specific conditions expected. They will be numbered consecutively with the #
   of the month, and the # of the warning (which is generated by IWWCs for 26 OWS issued
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                               21


  WWAs). A warning for observed lightning is the only criterion that will be issued separately
  from other warning criteria. More than one advisory may be in effect at the same time. The
  following additional requirements apply to warnings issued for criteria other than observed
  lightning.
     5.7.1. The 26 OWS will not issue a warning for different thresholds of the same
     phenomenon valid for overlapping times. More than one warning may be in effect at the
     same time for the same location (i.e. lightning with in 5NM and damaging winds > 35
     knots), but only one warning will be in effect for a particular phenomenon.
     5.7.2. Warnings issued to add or delete a weather phenomenon will include the
     explanation, ―This warning upgrades/downgrades Weather Warning #(previous
     warning).‖
         5.7.2.1. UPGRADES. The new warning forecasts more severe weather.
         5.7.2.2. DOWNGRADES. The new warning forecasts less severe weather.
         5.7.2.3. EXTENDS. The valid period of a previously issued warning is extended.
     5.7.3. Warnings and watches issued to extend the valid time will not be re-issued or re-
     numbered. These will include the explanation ―This is an extension of Weather Warning
     #(current warning).‖
     5.7.4. When the weather technician believes that phenomena meeting warning, watch, or
     advisory criteria are no longer expected during the valid time, they will be canceled with
     the explanation ―Weather Warning #(current warning) is canceled.‖ See Attachment 6
     for dissemination formats.
  5.8. Severe Weather Action Procedures (SWAP). These procedures are in place to ensure
  sufficient personnel are available during potential/actual severe weather events or during
  meteorological/operational events critical to mission success. For the purposes of these
  procedures, severe weather is defined as any weather phenomenon considered critical enough
  by the customer to require advance/special notice and subsequent actions to prevent serious
  injury or damage to personnel, property, or resources. It is imperative that timely and
  accurate weather WWAs are disseminated to all Whiteman AFB agencies to ensure
  personnel and resource protection. These procedures document a two-tier system with the
  WF and the 26 OWS sharing responsibilities for SWAP and resource protection.
     5.8.1. WF Responsibilities. WF will perform the SWAP responsibilities as defined in
     AFMAN 15-129, AFI 10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Events and AFI 10-206,
     Operational Reporting.     More specifically, WF will accomplish the following
     procedures:
         5.8.1.1. Notification. The on-duty weather technician will notify the Severe Weather
         Action Team (SWAT) standby member(s) according to the following guidance:
             5.8.1.1.1. During normal staff duty hours (0730L to 1630L, Monday through
             Friday, except federal holidays/authorized down days) the weather technician will
             implement SWAP by notifying the WF Commander, the WF
             Superintendent/NCOIC, Wing Weather Officer (WWO) and/or the SWAT
             standby member in their office or by phone whenever one or more conditions in
             Table 5.4 below are met or expected to occur. It is likely that the above personnel
 22                                                    WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


                are present in the weather station and do not need to be recalled/activated.
                5.8.1.1.2. During WF closure the 509 BW/CP will notify the standby weather
                technician or SWAT standby member when the 26 OWS issues a severe weather
                watch or warning or other condition as indicated in Table 5.4 is met to determine
                SWAT activation.

Table 5.4. SWAT Notification Criteria:
                                                                         Desired Notification/
                          Weather Condition
                                                                        Activation Lead Time
1.   One of the following Weather Watches is issued or phenomenon has potential to occur:
     A. Tornado (See Chapter 6, Tornado Procedures)                      As Potential Warrants
     B. Hail                                                             As Potential Warrants
     C. Winds > 35 knots                                                 As Potential Warrants
     D. Freezing Rain (Any Intensity)                                    As Potential Warrants
     E. Heavy Snow (Snow > 2 inches in < 12 hours)                       As Potential Warrants
2.   One of the following Weather Warnings is issued or phenomenon occurs:
     A. Tornado (See Chapter 6, Tornado Procedures)                           15 minutes
     B. Hail                                                                  90 minutes
     C. Winds > 35 knots                                                      90 minutes
     D. Freezing Precipitation (Any Intensity)                                90 minutes
     E. Snow > 2 inches in < 12 hours                                         90 minutes
3.   One of the following Weather is issued by the National Weather Service:
     A. Severe Thunderstorm Watch/Warning                                    When Issued
     B. Tornado Watch/Warning                                                When Issued
     C. Any Winter Related Watch/Warning/Advisory                            When Issued
4.   In the event of unforeseen circumstances, such as a communications line failure, a
     critical equipment outage at either the 26 OWS or WF, the WF will implement the
     SWAP at the 26 OWS’s request. The 26 OWS, as the agency ultimately responsible for
     forecast watch/warning support, will have this prerogative in the interest of Whiteman
     AFB resource protection and flight safety.
5.   Any other event or situation that the duty forecaster deems
                                                                              As Required
     notification necessary.
            5.8.1.2. Activation. The weather technician on duty will discuss the meteorological
            situation, manning requirements, and the recall of additional personnel (or place on
            standby) with the SWAT standby member. (If the SWAT standby member is
            unavailable, coordinate with the WF Commander, Superintendent, Wing Weather
            Officer (WWO), or section NCOICs). If deemed necessary the SWAT standby
            member will report to the weather station no later than 30 minutes after notification
            by the weather technician. Once the SWAT standby member has arrived they will
            assist in evaluating the situation, determine the need to recall additional personnel,
            and execute the SWAP duties/responsibilities in Attachment 11.
            5.8.1.3. Upon arrival at the weather station the SWAT standby member, time
            permitting, will conduct a METCON with the 26 OWS Technician/Regional
            Manager.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                23


          5.8.1.4. The weather technician will augment the FMQ-19 automated observing
          system as stated in paragraph 2.3.
          5.8.1.5. Post Event Procedures. If severe weather actually occurs the following
          procedures will be executed if necessary.
              5.8.1.5.1. OPREP-3 BEELINE Reporting procedures. When damage to the
              installation or aircraft has occurred due to weather, provide the information in
              Attachment 10 to the           509 BW/CP.
              5.8.1.5.2. If the event is to be used as one of the semi-annual SWAP tests,
              complete a memorandum for record documenting the event. Also, contact 26
              OWS flight leadership and provide them with the memorandum or an e-mail for
              their records.
          5.8.1.6. The WF personnel’s home and cell phone numbers will be reviewed monthly
          or when a change in personnel occurs to ensure the most current numbers are
          available for SWAP.
6. Tornado Procedures
   6.1. General. Tornadoes are the most violent phenomena of nature. They are spawned by
   severe thunderstorms and move in erratic tracks. Weather forecasters have a limited
   capability to forecast these rare events with sufficient lead-time for protection of life and
   property.
      6.1.1. Procedures. The 26 OWS will issue a TORNADO WATCH as early as possible to
      alert personnel that meteorological conditions exist or are forecast that favor tornadic
      activity. Personnel should take any appropriate action deemed necessary by their chain
      of command, remain alert to changing weather conditions and monitor the radio or TV
      when threatening weather is moving toward the Whiteman AFB area. A tornado watch
      means people should prepare for a possible tornado and make preparations to take cover.
      6.1.2. If a funnel cloud or tornado is seen approaching the base by reliable sources, is
      indicated on radar, or a warning is issued by the NWS for Johnson County, MO, then a
      TORNADO WARNING will be issued for the base. All personnel should seek shelter at
      that time. REMEMBER: A TORNADO WARNING MEANS THAT SIGNS OF
      TORNADIC DEVELOPMENT OR AN ACTUAL TORNADO HAVE BEEN SIGHTED
      AND PERSONNEL SHOULD TAKE COVER IMMEDIATELY!
      6.1.3. Tornado Notification Process.
          6.1.3.1. The 26 OWS or the WF will brief the 509 BW/CP personnel on tornadic
          activity expected to affect the base so they can sound the base siren. TORNADO
          WARNINGS will be disseminated IAW procedures listed in Attachment 5.
          6.1.3.2. IAW MOU between Whiteman AFB and Knob Noster City Administration
          (6 Mar 09), the WF will contact Knob Noster’s Dispatch Section (660-563-2233) to
          notify them the base is initiating the emergency notification system in response to
          imminent tornadic activity. In turn, Knob Noster Dispatch will contact the WF when
          they are initiating their emergency notification system for imminent tornadic activity.
 24                                                  WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


      6.1.4. The WF will cancel all TORNADO WARNINGS as soon as the tornadoes move
      out of the immediate area or dissipate.
          6.1.4.1. The emphasis should be on preparedness. Because severe weather can
          develop so rapidly, a TORNADO WARNING may be issued with little previous
          notification.
          6.1.4.2. All units and agencies will ensure all reports of tornadoes, funnel clouds, or
          hail are quickly relayed to the WF, 687-3061 or 687-3062. If the lines are busy, call
          509 BW/CP and ask them to relay the data to the WF. The quickness with which we
          receive such information can be the difference between life and death.
          6.1.4.3. Remember:      a WATCH means "prepare"…a WARNING means "take
          cover."
7. Reciprocal Support
   7.1. General. The agencies listed in this chapter will provide services as described below.
   7.2. 509th Bomb Wing. IAW AFI 10-229, the 509 BW/CC will chair a review of
   installation severe weather preparedness, capabilities, requirements, and procedures, no less
   than annually. The 509 BW/CCE (executive officer) will notify the WF of all requirements
   for or changes to the commander’s scheduled briefings. Notify WF of all changes to 509
   BW meeting times and requirements.
   7.3. 509th Operations Group Commander (509 OG/CC) and/or staff will:
      7.3.1. Establish operational weather support requirements and procedures with the WF.
      7.3.2. Notify the WF of all changes in mission weather support.
      7.3.3. Provide earliest possible notification of requirements for Crisis Action Team
      Weather Briefings associated with exercises/contingencies.
   7.4. All flying units, including associate units will:
      7.4.1. Inform the WF 48 hours in advance of any special weather briefing or forecast
      requirements. At a minimum be prepared to provide the following information:
      Takeoff/time-over-target/landing times; route of flight; flight level; alternate/abort bases;
      refueling tracks if applicable. Also inform the WF of any upcoming operations for which
      they will require weather support.
      7.4.2. Ensure all PIREPs during departure, in-flight, post-flight are relayed to the
      weather technician in a timely manner.
      7.4.3. Provide at least 72-hour notice for Instrument Refresher Course lectures or
      seasonal safety presentations.
      7.4.4. Notify WF of flying schedule changes via fax or email of form 2407.
      7.4.5. Provide key mission information necessary (as security clearance permits) to
      ensure weather briefings are as timely, as accurate and as relevant as possible.
      7.4.6. Provide feedback on MEFs to WF through PEX.
      7.4.7. Notify WF of AFWS outages. When the AFWS is not operational, weather
      information will be disseminated via hotline or other suitable means.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                            25


     7.4.8. 394th Combat Training Squadron. Provide weather technicians with an area to
     work for daily mission support, to include LAN connection and printer access.
     7.4.9. Establish weather support requirements and procedures with the WF flight
     commander.
  7.5. 509 BW and 442 FW/303 FS Supervisors of Flying (SOF) will:
     7.5.1. Obtain a weather briefing prior to assuming SOF duties.
     7.5.2. Monitor weather information disseminated via AFWWS. Notify the WF when the
     AFWS needs to be logged out and when it is returned to service.
     7.5.3. Increase monitoring of AFWS terminal, local weather data sets and alternate
     weather locations when ceiling/visibility conditions are less than 2000’/3 SM.
     Coordinate with the weather technician on the selection of an alternate airfield.
     7.5.4. Relay all PIREPs to the weather technician (especially working areas) within 5
     minutes of receipt.
  7.6. 509th Bomb Wing Command Post (509 BW/CP) will:
     7.6.1. Disseminate weather WWAs IAW Attachment 5.
     7.6.2. Notify the WF when a meteorologist is needed for Crisis Action Team.
     7.6.3. Notify the WF of all 509 BW aircraft weather diversions.
     7.6.4. Notify the WF when the Alert Aircraft Repositioning Plan (AARP) is
     implemented.
     7.6.5. Notify the WF when the AFWS is out of service and when it is returned to service.
     7.6.6. During back-up of PMSV or when a phone patch is requested, patch PMSV calls
     through to weather technician via phone line to Whiteman AFB METRO. Pass pilot
     reports (PIREPs) as they are received to Whiteman AFB METRO.
     7.6.7. Monitor weather information disseminated via AFWWS.
     7.6.8. Notify the WF whenever there is weather related property damage to Whiteman
     AFB.
     7.6.9. Act as POC for weather WWAs issued by 26 OWS during WF limited duty hours.
     7.6.10. If the weather station is closed, notify the standby weather forecaster when any
     weather watch, warning and/or advisory is issued by the 26 OWS. The WF will provide
     the 509 BW/CP with a standby forecaster recall roster NLT the day prior to scheduled
     closures.
     7.6.11. Sound the base siren system if a tornado warning is issued by the WF or 26
     OWS.
     7.6.12. Spirit Control will respond to daily radio checks on 509 BW OG Net to ensure
     Hotel Conference capabilities exist.
  7.7. 509th Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) Senior Controller will:
26                                                 WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


     7.7.1. Notify duty technician of any weather-dependent maintenance activities requiring
     weather support.
     7.7.2. Establish procedures to ensure affected maintenance activities are promptly
     notified of all applicable weather WWAs.
  7.8. 131st Bomb Wing/442nd Fighter Wing/1-135 Aviation Battalion will:
     7.8.1. Notify WF of all changes in mission weather support and provide daily flying
     schedule.
     7.8.2. Ensure PIREPs (departure, in-flight, post-flight) are relayed to the WF.
     7.8.3. Notify WF of contingency/deployment weather briefing support requests with a
     one week notice.
  7.9. 509th Operations Support Squadron.
     7.9.1. 509th Operations Support Squadron Airfield Management (509 OSS/OSAA)
     will:
        7.9.1.1. Notify weather personnel of all in-flight emergencies (including exercises)
        inbound to Whiteman AFB.
        7.9.1.2. Include appropriate weather information in the Flight Information
        Publications (FLIPs); to include, but not limited to, operating hours, PMSV frequency
        and outages, supporting OWS contact information, and pertinent observing
        information such as use of automated equipment and outages, and limitations
        hindering unobstructed visibility observations. Required changes will be submitted
        when requested by the WF. Provide new FLIPs when required.
        7.9.1.3. Relay weather WWAs to the agencies listed in Attachment 5, to include
        509th Operations Support Squadron Control Tower (509 OSS/OSAT) and OSAR.
        7.9.1.4. Notify WF of AFWS outages. When the AFWS is not operational, weather
        information will be disseminated via hotline or other suitable means.
        7.9.1.5. Notify the WF of aircraft mishaps/incidents at, or in the vicinity of
        Whiteman AFB and all aircraft mishaps involving Whiteman AFB based aircraft.
        7.9.1.6. Notify WF of any changes to normal airfield operating hours. This includes
        the notification of early opening and closing of the airfield.
        7.9.1.7. Provide for maintenance and refueling of generator for Building 35. Notify
        the WF when switching from commercial to generator power, or vice versa.
     7.9.2. 509th Operations Support Squadron Control Tower (509 OSS/OSAT) will:
        7.9.2.1. Notify the WF of weather communications equipment (AFWS, PMSV)
        outages. When the AFWS is not operational, weather information will be
        disseminated via hotline or other suitable means.
        7.9.2.2. Conduct daily operational checks of the PMSV frequency (344.6). Monitor
        PMSV frequency/provide aircrews with weather data when the WF’s PMSV
        equipment is inoperative.
        7.9.2.3. Notify WF via hotline, or other suitable means, of runway changes.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                             27


        7.9.2.4. Tower personnel will receive weather training and local familiarization prior
        to certification. The WF will provide the initial training seminar and administer an
        exam. Tower personnel will administer recurring weather training with the WF’s
        assistance, as necessary.
        7.9.2.5. Perform a cooperative weather watch, report tower visibility, and notify the
        WF of any unreported changes in weather conditions to include:
           7.9.2.5.1. Tower prevailing visibility decreases to less than or increases to equal
           or exceed 4 statute miles. Note: The WF will not include a tower visibility
           remark in automated or augmented observations.
           7.9.2.5.2. Tower prevailing visibility changes by a reportable value (ref: AFMAN
           15-111) when less than 4 statute miles.
           7.9.2.5.3. Formation/dissipation, raising/lowering of cloud bases.
           7.9.2.5.4. Precipitation begins/ends.
           7.9.2.5.5. Obstruction to vision appears or dissipates.
           7.9.2.5.6. Thunderstorms, tornado, funnel cloud, lightning seen, or thunder heard.
        7.9.2.6. Provide weather personnel with initial ATC indoctrination.
        7.9.2.7. Expeditiously provide PIREPS to WF when they are received or when
        requested to include location of encountered phenomena, time of encountered
        phenomena, flight level, aircraft type and at least one other element (sky cover,
        weather, temperature, winds, turbulence (including LLWS), icing, or other significant
        remarks).
        7.9.2.8. Relay weather WWAs to aircrews.
        7.9.2.9. Change the FMQ-19 automated observing system wind sensors as
        required/requested.
           7.9.2.9.1. When FMQ-19 wind equipment is inoperative the WF will notify the
           509 OSS/OSAT and RAPCON that the winds will be estimated.
        7.9.2.10. Relay significant weather information to aircrews IAW FAA JO 7110.65.
     7.9.3. 509th Operations Support Squadron RAPCON (509 OSS/OSAR) will:
        7.9.3.1. Provide a radio check for PMSV frequency (344.6) to WF upon request.
        Monitor PMSV frequency/provide aircrews with weather data when WF PMSV
        equipment is inoperative.
        7.9.3.2. Provide radar information when requested by WF.
        7.9.3.3. Notify WF when the AFWS needs to be logged out and when it is returned to
        service.
        7.9.3.4. Expeditiously provide PIREPS to WF when they are received or when
        requested to include location of encountered phenomena, time of encountered
        phenomena, flight level, aircraft type and at least one other element (sky cover,
        weather, temperature, winds, turbulence (including LLWS), icing, or other significant
        remarks).
28                                                 WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


        7.9.3.5. Relay significant weather information to aircrews IAW FAAO 7110.65.
     7.9.4. 509th Operations Support Squadron Weapons and Tactics Flight (509
     OSS/OSK) or the Mission Planning Cell Chief will:
        7.9.4.1. Coordinate operation plans through WF if weather support is required for
        plan execution.
        7.9.4.2. Ensure workspace with SIPRnet and NIPRnet access is available for use by
        WF personnel during operations or exercises.
     7.9.5. 509th Operations Support Squadron Operations Plans Flight (509 OSS/OSX)
     will:
        7.9.5.1. Notify the WF of any higher headquarters missions for which weather
        support could be required.
  7.10. 509th Bomb Wing Safety Office (509 BW/SE) will:
     7.10.1. Notify WF of any local aircraft mishap/incidents where weather or weather
     service may have been a factor. The WF will collect, save, and provide weather data to
     support accident and mishap investigations.
     7.10.2. Notify the WF of any damage on Whiteman AFB caused by weather.
     7.10.3. Coordinate with WF on all messages containing references to weather.
     7.10.4. Invite a WF representative to scheduled flying safety meetings.
  7.11. 509th Security Forces Squadron will:
     7.11.1. Notify WF of observed hail, tornadoes, freezing precipitation, or other significant
     weather encountered during routine patrols.
     7.11.2. Disseminate weather WWAs IAW Attachment 5.
  7.12. 509th Civil Engineering Squadron will:
     7.12.1. Provide emergency electrical power to Whiteman AFB weather equipment.
     Failed generators will be repaired/replaced IAW priorities listed in the war support plan
     or base recovery plan, as appropriate.
     7.12.2. Refuel generator's fuel storage tank through coordination with fuels management.
     7.12.3. Notify WF through airfield management prior to emergency power generator
     operational tests. Switch to and from back-up power will not occur until the duty
     forecaster or designated representative has been advised and concurs.
  7.13. 509th Logistics Readiness Squadron will:
     7.13.1. Disseminate Weather WWAs to agencies IAW Attachment 5.
     7.13.2. During OREs, ORIs, and real world contingencies, provide the WF with one
     vehicle when requested.
  7.14. 509th Communications Squadron (509 CS) will:
     7.14.1. Provide routine and emergency maintenance for the AN/FMQ-19 Automated
     Observing System and the Pilot-to-Metro capability. Maintenance personnel will always
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                           29


        receive clearance from the weather technician before taking the FMQ-19 system or
        components down for maintenance.
        7.14.2. Respond to an equipment outage IAW 509 CSOI 33-1001 Attachment 1, if the
        outage is judged to be significant by the weather personnel. The weather technician will
        provide a verbal mission impact statement (significant or minimal) to the 509 CS
        Communications Focal Point upon notification of outage. Weather personnel may defer
        maintenance for minimal outages during non-duty hours if back-up equipment is
        available. Maintenance will only be deferred until the beginning of the next duty day.
        7.14.3. 509 CS/SCOSC (Communications Focal Point) will:
            7.14.3.1. Record all WF outage reports to include the equipment listed in paragraph
            7.15 as well as contract/vendor-driven communications such as phone circuits, etc.,
            and issue a job control number.
            7.14.3.2. Notify the responsible repair agent for maintenance and follow up with the
            responsible repair agent until service has been restored.
            7.14.3.3. Coordinate all outage restoration times with the WF, who solely approves
            scheduled outages (including PMIs) or restoration to operational status of weather
            equipment.
    7.15. All units requiring AFWS accounts will:
        7.15.1. Provide the WF AFWS system manager, 687-3061, a POC to contact with the
        system link, username and password.
8. Supported Customer Mission and Aircraft Weather Sensitivities

Table 8.1. B-2 Supported Customer Mission and Aircraft Weather Sensitivities.
B-2 Spirit Bomber:
Unit Supported: 509th Bomb Wing
Location: Whiteman AFB, MO
Mission: Conventional/Nuclear Bomb
PERFORMANCE DATA:
Cruise Airspeed: 420kts                                Cruise Altitude: High 40,000ft – Low 20,000ft
Range: ---                                             Max Cruise Altitude: 50,000ft
Endurance: ---                                         Service Ceiling: 50,000ft
GROUND WEATHER LIMITATIONS:
Ceiling/Visibility:                                    Winds:
Takeoff: 200 / ½                                       Crosswind Touch-Go:
RVR: 1,600ft (1,000ft HHD)                             20kts Limit without Instructor Pilot
RCR: 7 Taxi, 9 Takeoff                                 25kts Limit with Instructor Pilot
Landing: 200 / ½                                       30kts = No Landing
RVR: 2,400ft (or published mins)
RCR: 9 or higher
Touch-Go:
300 / 1 with Instructor Pilot
1,000 / 3 without Instructor Pilot
IN-FLIGHT WEATHER LIMITATIONS:
Icing: No sustained flight aircraft in known/forecast icing. May climb and descend through light icing
 30                                                      WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


only.
Turbulence: Aircraft may operate in light and moderate turbulence, but avoid severe turbulence with
limitations during air refueling.
Thunderstorm: Avoid thunderstorms laterally by 20nm below FL200. Avoid thunderstorms laterally by
40nm at/above FL200. When at/above FL200, stay VMC when within 40nm of any convective activity,
not just thunderstorms, which have built above FL200.
Also avoid cruising altitudes +/- 5,000ft or +/- 10° C of the forecast freezing level.
OTHER AIRCRAFT FEATURES:
Aircraft has good weather radar and good communications.
WEATHER ADVISORIES/WEATHER WARNINGS:
Tornado:                                                Crosswinds GTE to 15kts:
Hangar Aircraft                                         Cease B-2 lift operations (maintenance)
Hail:                                                   Crosswinds GTE to 25kts:
Hangar Aircraft – No takeoff/landings                   Limit Touch-Go operations
Thunderstorm/Lightning w/i 10nm:                        Surface Winds GTE to 35kts:
OG approval for takeoff/land (20nm); Cease              Parachute operations limit
munitions upload                                        Potential for B-2 Induction Icing:
Thunderstorm/Lightning w/i 5 nm:                        Limit engine run times
Cease refueling

Table 8.2. T-38 Supported Customer Mission and Aircraft Weather Sensitivities.
T-38:
Unit Supported: 509th Bomb Wing
Location: Whiteman AFB, MO
Mission: Trainer Aircraft
PERFORMANCE DATA:
Cruise Airspeed: 540kts                              Cruise Altitude: 39,000ft
Range: 700nm                                         Max Cruise Altitude: 43,000ft
Endurance: 1.5 hours                                 Service Ceiling: 50,000ft
GROUND WEATHER LIMITATIONS:
Ceiling/Visibility:                                  Winds:
Takeoff: 300 / 1                                     Cross Component:
RVR: 200 / 1 with OG approval                        30kts max takeoff and full stops dry runway
RCR: 7 Taxi, 9 Takeoff                               25kts max touch and go dry runway
Landing: 300 / 1                                     20kts max takeoff and full stops wet runway
                                                     15kts max takeoff/landing formation flights
                                                     10kts icy/standing water
IN-FLIGHT WEATHER LIMITATIONS:
Icing: Aircraft possesses no anti-icing and de-icing equipment. Climb or descent through forecast
conditions more severe that light rime or any observed conditions are prohibited.
Turbulence: None.
OTHER AIRCRAFT FEATURES:
Aircraft does not have weather radar.
WEATHER ADVISORIES/WEATHER WARNINGS:
Tornado:                                               Crosswinds GTE to 15kts:
Hangar Aircraft                                        No touch and go
Hail:                                                  Formation flight crosswind limit for
Hangar Aircraft                                        takeoff/landing
Thunderstorm/Lightning w/i 10nm:                       Crosswinds GTE to 25kts:
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                          31


OG approval for takeoff and landing                   Crosswind limit
Thunderstorm/Lightning w/i 5 nm:                      Surface Winds GTE to 35kts:
Cease refueling                                       Parachute operations limit

Table 8.3. A-10 Supported Customer Mission and Aircraft Weather Sensitivities.
A-10:
Unit Supported: 442d Fighter Wing
Location: Whiteman AFB, MO
Mission: Close Air Support ―Tank Busters‖
PERFORMANCE DATA:
Cruise Airspeed: 250kts                               Cruise Altitude: 10,000ft
Range: 800 – 1,800nm                                  Max Cruise Altitude: 34,000ft
Endurance: 3 – 7 hours                                Service Ceiling: 40,000ft
GROUND WEATHER LIMITATIONS:
Ceiling/Visibility:                                   Winds:
Takeoff: 300 / 1                                      Cross Component:
Landing: 300 / 1                                      25kts
Range: 1,500 / 3
IN-FLIGHT WEATHER LIMITATIONS:
Icing: Aircraft possesses anti-icing windscreen. Light icing may degrade mission. Operating into
moderate icing should not exceed 5 minutes; operating into known/forecast severe icing is prohibited.
Turbulence: Aircraft may operate into light, maneuver around moderate, and must avoid severe
turbulence.
OTHER AIRCRAFT FEATURES:
Aircraft does not possess weather radar. Its weather minimums change significantly with different
missions. Missions with ordinance require minimum cig/vis of 1,500 / 3.
WEATHER ADVISORIES/WEATHER WARNINGS:
Tornado:                                              Crosswinds GTE to 25kts:
Hangar Aircraft                                       Crosswind limit
Hail:                                                 Surface Winds GTE to 35kts:
Hangar Aircraft                                       Parachute operations limit
Thunderstorm/Lightning w/i 10nm:
OG approval for takeoff and landing
Thunderstorm/Lightning w/i 5 nm:
Cease refueling and munitions upload

Table 8.4. AH-64 Apache Helicopter Supported Customer Mission and Aircraft Weather
Sensitivities.
AH-64 Apache Helicopter:
Unit Supported: 1st of the 135th Aviation Battalion, Missouri Army National Guard
Location: Whiteman AFB, MO
Mission: Attack Helicopter
PERFORMANCE DATA:
Cruise Airspeed: 120kts                              Cruise Altitude: 2,000ft
Range: 300nm                                         Max Cruise Altitude: 12,000ft
Endurance: 2.5 hours                                 Service Ceiling: 22,500ft
GROUND WEATHER LIMITATIONS:
Ceiling/Visibility:                                  Winds:
Day: 500 / 1                                         Peak Gust Spread: 15kts
 32                                                         WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


Night: 1,000 / 3                                        Prevailing Wind Speed: 45kts
IN-FLIGHT WEATHER LIMITATIONS:
Icing: Aircraft possesses no anti-icing capability. Operating into areas of light icing is allowable for very
short periods of time. Operating into known/forecast moderate to severe icing is prohibited.
Turbulence: Aircraft may operate into light and moderate turbulence. Flight into known or forecast
extreme turbulence or into known severe turbulence is prohibited.
OTHER AIRCRAFT FEATURES:
Aircraft does not possess weather radar. Low level wind shear, heavy rain, snow, freezing precipitation
or ice fog can seriously affect helicopter performance.
WEATHER ADVISORIES/WEATHER WARNINGS:
Tornado:
Hangar Aircraft
Hail:
Hangar Aircraft – No takeoff/landings
Thunderstorm/Lightning w/i 25nm:
Mission Go / No Go
Thunderstorm/Lightning w/i 10nm:
OG approval for takeoff and landing
Thunderstorm/Lightning w/i 5 nm:
Cease refueling
Gust Spread GTE to 15kts:
Limits engine start up




                                                  SCOTT A. VANDER HAMM, Brigadier General,
                                                  USAF
                                                  Commander, 509th Bomb Wing
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                         33


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 10-206, Operational Reporting, 06 September 2011
AFI 10-229, Responding to Severe Weather Events, 15 October 2003
AFI 10-2501, Air Force Emergency Management (EM) Program Planning and Operations, 24
January 2007
AFI 11-2B-2V3, B-2--Operations Procedures, 03 May 2010
AFI 11-202V3_AFGSCSUP, General Flight Rules, 01 February 2010
AFI 13-204V3, Airfield Operations Procedures and Programs, 01 September 2010
AFI 15-128, Air Force Weather Roles and Responsibilities, 07 February 2011
AFMAN 15-111, Surface Weather Observations, 10 March 2009
AFMAN 15-129, Air and Space Weather Operations – Processes and Procedures, 21 June 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFOSHSTD 91-501, Air Force Consolidated Occupational Safety Standard, 07 July 2004
AFPD 15-1, Air Force Weather Operations, 19 February 2010
FAAO 7110.65, Air Traffic Control, 11 February 2010
MOA 15-28,
WHITEMANAFBI 48-103, Heat and Cold Stress Guidance, 14 May 2010
Prescribed Forms
No Forms Prescribed
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 3622, Air Traffic Control/Weather Certification and Rating Record (LRA)
AF Form 3803, Surface Weather Observations (METAR/SPECI)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
14 WS—14th Weather Squadron
19 MUNS—19th Munitions Squadron
26 OWS—26th Operational Weather Squadron
303 FS—303rd Fighter Squadron
442 FW—442d Fighter Wing
509 AMXS—509th Aircraft Maintenance Squadron
 34                                            WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


509 BW—509th Bomb Wing
509 BW/CC—509th Bomb Wing Commander
509 BW/CP—509th Bomb Wing Command Post
509 CES—509th Civil Engineer Squadron
509 CES/CEX—509th Civil Engineer Squadron Emergency Management
509 MSG/CC—509th Mission Support Group Commander
509 MUNS—509th Munitions Squadron
509 MXS—509th Maintenance Squadron
509 OG/CC—509th Operations Group Commander
509 OSS—509th Operations Support Squadron
509 OSS/CC—509th Operations Support Squadron Commander
509 OSS/OSA—509th Operations Support Squadron Airfield
509 OSS/OSAA—509th Operations Support Squadron Airfield Management
509 OSS/OSAR—509th Operations Support Squadron RAPCON
509 OSS/OSAT—509th Operations Support Squadron Control Tower
509 OSS/OSK—509th Operations Support Squadron Weapons and Tactics
509 OSS/OSW—509th Operations Support Squadron Weather Flight
509 OSS/OSX—509th Operations Support Squadron Plans Flight
509 SFS—509th Security Forces Squadron
AARP—Alert Aircraft Repositioning Plan
AASF—Army Aviation Support Facility
AIREP—Air Report
AFB—Air Force Base
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFOSH—Air Force Occupational Safety and Health Standard
AFPD—Air Force Prescribing Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
AFW—Air Force Weather
AFWS—Air Force Weather System
AGE—Aerospace Ground Equipment
AGL—Above Ground Level
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                   35


ALSTG—Altimeter
AMD—Amendment
AOL—Alternate Operating Location
AOR—Area of Responsibility
ATC—Air Traffic Control
BWS—Base Weather Station
BWW—Basic Weather Watch
CDM—Chemical Downwind Message
CIG—Ceiling
CONUS—Continental United States
COR—Correction
CWW—Cooperative Weather Watch
DSN—Defense Switch Network
EDM—Effective Downwind Message
EOC—Emergency Operations Center
ERT—Engine Run Time
EWO—Emergency War Order
FAA—Federal Aviation Administration
FLIP—Flight Information Publication
FMH—1 – Federal Meteorological Handbook
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
FWA—Forecast Weather Advisory
IAW—In Accordance With
ICAO—International Civil Aviation Organization
IRC—Instrument Refresher Course
IWWS—Integrated Weather Weapon System
GPS—Global Positioning System
GTE—Greater Than or Equal To
KSZL—Whiteman Air Force Base
LAN—Local Area Network
LLWS—Low-Level Wind Shear
MAJCOM—Major Command
 36                                              WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


MASO—Munitions Accountable Systems Officer
MEF—Mission Execution Forecast
MEFP—Mission Execution Forecast Process
METAR—Aviation Routine Weather Report
METCON—Meteorological Conference or Discussion
METWATCH—Meteorological Watch
MOA—Memorandum of Agreement
MOU—Memorandum of Understanding
NCOIC—Non-Commissioned Officer in Charge
NLT—No Later Than
NOTAMS—Notice To Airmen
NWS—National Weather Service
OPR—Office Primary Responsibility
ORE—Operational Readiness Exercise
ORI—Operational Readiness Inspection
OWS—Operational Weather Squadron
PEX—Patriot Excalibur
PIREP—Pilot Weather Repot
PMI—Preventative Maintenance Inspection
PMSV—Pilot-to-Metro Service
POC—Point of Contact
RCR—Runway Condition Reading
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
RTD—Real Time Data
RVR—Runway Visual Range
SOF—Supervisor of Flying
SPECI—Aviation Selected Special Weather Report
SWAP—Severe Weather Action Procedures
SZL—Whiteman Air Force Base
TAF—Terminal Aerodrome Forecast
TAWS—Target Acquisition Weather Software
TDA—Tactical Decision Aid
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                  37


TSRA—Thunderstorms With Rain Showers
UTC—Universal Time Coordinated
VIS—Visibility
WA—Weather Advisory
WF—Weather Flight
WMO—World Meteorological Organization
WWA—Watches, Warnings and/or Advisories
WWO—Wing Weather Officer

Terms
Aircraft Mishap— Term used to denote any event resulting in damage to, or destruction of any
aircraft to include lightning strikes, inadvertent departure from the paved runway or taxiway
surface, aircraft or Aerospace Ground Equipment (AGE) fires, and forced landings due to in-
flight emergencies.
Amendment (AMD)— Used as a message modifier when transmitting an aerodrome forecast
amendment.
Climatology— The historical records of weather conditions measured or observed at a specific
location is known as climatology. Some data goes back over 100 years, but generally, a 10- to
25-year history is more common. Climatology is useful in planning operations beyond 5 to 7
days. It usually describes the average (or mean) conditions such as high and low temperatures
and extremes.
Desired Lead-time (DLT)— The amount of advance notice a supported agency desires before
the onset of a particular weather phenomenon.
Eyes Forward— Weather Flight technicians are the eyes forward for the technicians in the
Operational Weather Squadron (OWS) and integrate weather radar data, meteorological satellite
imagery, lightning detection readouts, and non-standard weather data systems (vertical profilers,
mesonet data, etc.) to create an integrated weather picture and near-term trend forecasts for the
OWS. Eyes forward yields meaningful meteorological information not contained in coded
observation to the servicing OWS and is an integral part of the meteorological watch for an
installation or contingency operating location.
Forecast Weather Advisory (FWA)— A weather advisory issued when the customer requires
advance notification of an impending weather condition with sufficient time to allow for
protective actions.
Issue Time— The time when an agency is notified of a watch, warning, or advisory. When
more than one agency is notified, the issue time is the time the last agency is notified. Follow-up
notifications are not considered when determining issue time.
LOCAL Observation— An unscheduled observation taken when specific local criteria are met.
All LOCALs shall be made as soon as possible after the relevant criteria are observed.
METAR Observation— Meteorological Aviation Report. A routine scheduled surface weather
observation. It contains a report of wind, visibility, runway visual range, present weather, sky
 38                                                   WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


condition, temperature, dew point, and altimeter setting. In addition, significant remarks are
appended to the METAR observation.
METWATCH— Monitoring aerospace weather for a route, area, or terminal and advising
concerned organizations when phenomena that could affect their operations or pose a hazard to
life or property are occurring or about to occur.
Mission Execution Forecast (MEF)— A customized weather product providing terrestrial and
space weather data and forecasts for a specific mission, or set of missions. It fully integrates
aerospace weather with the customer’s tactics, weapon systems, environmental sensitivities of
equipment, and other operational requirements.
MISSIONWATCH— The monitoring of aerospace weather for a specific mission (i.e., ground,
air, or space) and informing supported agencies when un-forecast mission-limiting phenomena
could impact operations.
Operational Weather Squadron (OWS)— An organization comprised of management,
technician, and training personnel responsible for providing regional weather support. Their
mission is to produce theater-scale tailored weather forecast products and services to customers
within their area of responsibility.
Pilot Report (PIREP)— A report of in-flight weather provided by an aircrew member.
Severe Thunderstorm— For Whiteman AFB, a thunderstorm that produces hail and/or surface
wind greater than or equal to 35 knots.
Severe Weather— Any weather condition that poses a hazard to property or life.
Special (SPECI) Observation— An unscheduled observation taken when significant changes in
weather elements meet special criteria. All SPECIs shall be made as soon as possible after the
relevant criteria are observed.

Terminal Aerodrome Forecast (TAF) – A weather forecast prepared by the 26th Operational
Weather Squadron (26 OWS) composed of required weather elements for Whiteman AFB
airfield and covers a 24-hour period. Forecast elements in the body of the forecast text refer
to the area within 5 SM of the center of the aerodrome complex. Operationally significant
elements outside this area are included in remarks (e.g., TS OMTNS or VCTS). The term VC
(vicinity) refers to the area between 5 SM and 10 SM of the aerodrome complex. TAFs are
issued every 8 hours at 0300 Zulu, 1100 Zulu, and 1900 Zulu. TAFs are amended according
to criteria listed in Attachment 3.
Weather Flight (WF)— A military weather organization providing direct operational support at
the tactical level.
Weather Advisory (WA)— A special notice provided to a supported agency when an
established weather condition that could affect its operation is occurring or is expected to occur.
Weather Warning (WW)— A special notice provided to a supported agency when an
established weather condition of such intensity as to affect operations, pose a hazard to life or
property, and requires protective action, is occurring or is expected to occur.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                   39


Weather Watch— A special notice provided to supported customers that alerts them of a
potential for weather conditions of such intensity as to pose a hazard to life or property for which
the customer must take protective action.
 40                                                WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


                                       Attachment 2
      AUTOMATED AND AUGMENTED SPECIAL OBSERVATION CRITERIA

A2.1. Ceiling. The ceiling is observed to form below, decrease to less than or, if below,
increase to equal or exceed:
   A2.1.1. 3,000 feet
   A2.1.2. 2,000 feet **
   A2.1.3. 1,500 feet
   A2.1.4. 1,000 feet
   A2.1.5. 800 feet
   A2.1.6. 700 feet
   A2.1.7. 600 feet*
   A2.1.8. 500 feet*
   A2.1.9. 400 feet*
   A2.1.10. 300 feet
   A2.1.11. 200 feet*
   A2.1.12. Other minima as specified in current FLIP (*FLIP requirement / ** ATC
   requirement)
A2.2. Sky Condition. A layer of clouds or obscuring phenomena aloft is observed below 600
feet and no layer aloft was reported below 600 feet in the previous METAR or SPECI
observation.
A2.3. Prevailing Visibility. Prevailing visibility is observed to decrease to less than or, if
below, increase to equal or exceed:
   A2.3.1. 3 statute miles
   A2.3.2. 2 statute miles*
   A2.3.3. 1 1/2 statute miles*
   A2.3.4. 1 1/4 statute miles*
   A2.3.5. 1 1/8 statute miles*
   A2.3.6. 1 statute mile*
   A2.3.7. 3/4 statute mile*
   A2.3.8.            statute mile*
   A2.3.9. 1/2 statute mile*
   A2.3.10. Other minima as specified in current FLIP (*FLIP requirement)
A2.4. Tornado, Funnel Cloud. Is observed or disappears from sight (Supplement).
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                   41


A2.5. Thunderstorm begins or ends. (A SPECI is not required to report the beginning of a
new thunderstorm if one is currently being reported).
    A2.5.1. Begins: For reporting purposes, a thunderstorm is considered to have begun and to
    be occurring ―on station‖ when (1) thunder is first heard, (2) when hail is falling or lightning
    is observed at or near the airfield and the local noise level is such that resulting thunder
    cannot be heard, or (3) lightning detection equipment indicates lightning strikes within 5NM
    of the airfield.
    A2.5.2. Ends: A thunderstorm is considered to have ended 15 minutes after the last
    occurrence of any criteria listed in paragraph A2.5.1 above.
A2.6. Precipitation.
    A2.6.1. Hail begins or ends (Supplement).
    A2.6.2. Freezing precipitation begins, ends, or changes in intensity.
    A2.6.3. Ice pellets begin, end, or change in intensity.
    A2.6.4. Any other type of precipitation begins or ends. Note that, except for freezing rain,
    freezing drizzle, hail, and ice pellets, a SPECI is not required for changes in type or the
    beginning or ending of one type while another is in progress.
A2.7. Squall. A strong wind characterized by a sudden onset in which the wind speed increases
at least 16 knots and is sustained at 22 knots or more for at least one minute.
A2.8. Wind Shift. The wind direction changes by 45 degrees or more in less than 15 minutes
and the wind speeds are 10 knots or more throughout the wind shift.
A2.9. Runway Visual Range (RVR). The highest value during the preceding 10 minutes from
the designated RVR runway decreases to less than, or if below, increase to equal or exceed:
Table A2.1. Runway Visual Range. (* indicates reference to FLIP requirement)

6,000 feet*                                        RVR 6,000 feet*

5,500 feet*                                        RVR 5,500 feet*

5,000 feet                                         RVR 5,000 feet

4,000 feet*                                        RVR 4,000 feet*

3,500 feet*                                        RVR 3,500 feet*

2,400 feet*                                        RVR 2,400 feet*

2,000 feet                                         RVR 2,000 feet

    A2.9.1. Report RVRNO when RVR information is not available and conditions exist for
    reporting RVR.
    A2.9.2. Prevailing Visibility first observed <= 1SM/1600 meters, again when prevailing
    visibility goes above 1SM/1600 meters.
 42                                                WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


A2.10. Aircraft Mishap. When operating in back-up mode, take an aircraft mishap SPECI
immediately following notification or sighting of an aircraft mishap at or near the observing
location unless there has been an intervening observation.
A2.11. Miscellaneous.
   A2.11.1. Volcanic Ash. When first observed (Supplement).
   A2.11.2. Any other meteorological situation which, in the opinion of the technician, is
   critical to the safety of aircraft operations.
A2.12. Single Element SPECI. Single element SPECIs are authorized for Tornadic Activity
and Volcanic Eruptions when a delay in reporting all elements of the SPECI would cause an
immediate threat to life or property.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                             43


                                              Attachment 3
                                  TAF AMENDMENT CRITERIA

A3.1. TAF Amendment. Individual elements in the TAF will be forecast as accurately as the
state of the art allows. As a minimum, TAFs (scheduled or amended) will specify time of
occurrence to the nearest hour (and minute as appropriate), the duration, and intensity of the
standard criteria listed in Table 3.1

Table A3.1. Whiteman AFB Terminal Aerodrome Forecast Amendment Criteria.

          Forecast Element/Occurrence                               TAF Amendment Criteria
                                                        Category           Limits
Ceiling or Prevailing Visibility observed or later
expected to decrease to less than, or if below,           D             3,000 ft / 3 statute miles
increase to equal or exceed:                              C             1,000 to < 3,000 ft / 2 to < 3 statute
                                                        miles
                                                          B             200 to < 1,000 ft / 1/2 to < 2 statute
                                                        miles
                                                          A             < 200 ft / 1/2 statute mile

                                                        Categories are determined by the lower of the
                                                        values. Lowest published airfield minimum for
                                                        Ceiling/Visibility category A.
                                                        The difference between the observed predominant
Surface Wind
                                                        wind speed (or gust) and the forecast wind speed
                                                        (or gust) is 10 knots or more.
                                                        Direction change greater than 30 degrees when the
                                                        predominant wind speed or gusts are expected to be
                                                        over 15 knots.
                                                        Un-forecast freezing precipitation begins or ends.
Precipitation
                                                        The beginning or ending of precipitation causing a
                                                        local weather warning or weather advisory that can
                                                        be specified in the TAF to be issued, canceled, or
                                                        amended.

                                                        Weather operator considers the occurrence or
                                                        nonoccurrence of precipitation to be operationally
                                                        significant.

Icing, not associated with thunderstorms, from the      The beginning or ending of icing first meets,
surface to 18,000 ft MSL                                exceeds, or decreases an intensity of below light or
                                                        greater thresholds (for CAT II aircraft) and was not
                                                        specified in the forecast.

Turbulence (for Cat II aircraft), not associated with   The beginning or ending of turbulence first meets,
thunderstorms, from the surface to 10,000 ft MSL        exceeds, or decreases below moderate or greater
 44                                                      WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


                                                     thresholds (for CAT II aircraft) and was not
                                                     specified in the forecast.
                                                     Is occurring and is expected to continue, or is
Non-convective low level wind shear
                                                     expected to begin, but is not specified in the
                                                     forecast.

                                                     Is forecast in the TAF, but is no longer expected to
                                                     occur during the forecast period.
                                                     Is occurring and is expected to continue, or is
Forecast weather warning criteria and/or weather
                                                     expected to begin, but is not specified in the
advisory criteria that can be specified in the TAF
                                                     forecast.

                                                     Is forecast in the TAF, but is no longer expected to
                                                     occur during the forecast period.

Thunderstorms                                        Incorrect by forecasted start or end time.
                                                     Forecast conditions specified as temporary become
Specification of Temporary (TEMPO) conditions
                                                     predominant conditions.

                                                     Forecast conditions specified as temporary do not
                                                     occur as forecast.

                                                     Forecast conditions specified as temporary are no
                                                     longer expected to occur.
                                                     Forecast change conditions (BECMG group) occur
Changes to Predominant Conditions:
                                                     before the beginning of the specified period of
                                                     change and are expected to persist.

                                                     Forecast change conditions (BECMG group) do not
                                                     occur by the specified time.

                                                     Forecast change conditions (BECMG group) are no
                                                     longer expected to occur.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                          45


                                    Attachment 4
                    EXAMPLE AFWS DISSEMINATION FORMATS

Table A4.1. Hourly Surface Observation (METAR).

RECEIVED 28/0057Z
KSZL METAR 0057Z 17014G26KT 3/4 R19/6,000FT +TSRA SCT010 BKN028CB
OVC040 63/59 ALSTG 29.91 RMK FRQ LTGICCA TS OHD-E MOV E CB
12 W MOV E PA +881 DA +2357 WR// 57/DM

Table A4.2. Special Surface Observation (SPECI).

RECEIVED 28/1716Z
KSZL SPECI 1716Z 32012KT 2-SN SCY000 OVC008 30/28 ALSTG 30.12 RMK VIS
NW 1 SN SCT000 PA +687 DA +2118 LSR24 16/CB

Table A4.3. Single Element Special Surface Observation (SPECI).

RECEIVED 28/2113Z
KSZL SPECI 2113Z ALSTG M RMK TORNADO B13 1/8 W MOV E PA M DA M 13/SM

Table A4.4. Single Element Local Observation (LOCAL).

RECEIVED 28/0125Z
KSZL LOCAL 0125Z 24025G35KT ALSTG M RMK PA M DA M 25/LG

Table A4.5. Pilot Report (PIREP).

RECEIVED 28/2320Z
KSZL PIREP TIME 2320 OV KSZL180030 FL350 TP C5 SK SKC TA M47 WND
250095KT TURB NEG ICG NEG

Table A4.6. Terminal Aerodrome Forecast (TAF).

RECEIVED 28/1102Z
KSZL FCST 2811-2911 19012KT 7 VCTS SCT030 BKN080 TIMETER29.98INS
     BECMG 15-16 VRB20G29KT 4 -TSRA SCT015 BKN030CB OVC080
     ALTIMETER29.91INS
     TEMPO 16-18 VRB25G35KT 1/2 +TSRAGR SCT008CB BKN012
     BECMG 18-19 32010G22KT 7 NSW BKN025 BKN080 BKN300
 46                                                      WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


      ALTIMETER30.02INS TEMP 24C AT 2100Z TEMP 15C AT 1300Z 02/RLR
RECEIVED 28/1515Z
KSZL FCST AMD 2815-2811 19012KT 7 VCTS SCT030 BKN100
      ALTIMETER29.94INS
       BECMG 20-21 20010G20KT 7 FEW250 ALSTG30.08INS TEMP 24C AT
       2100Z TEMP 15C AT 1300Z AMD 1535 15/RLR

Table A4.7. Weather Watch.

Weather Watch 06-037
Valid 21/1841Z (21/1341L) TO 22/0030 (21/1930L)


Weather Watch for Whiteman AFB (KSZL)
Potential for Snow Accumulation greater than or equal to 2 in. within 12 hrs. exist at Whiteman AFB.

Table A4.8. Forecast Weather Warning.

Weather Warning #06-022
Valid 30/2230Z (30/1730L) TO 01/0000Z (30/1900L)


Weather Watch for Whiteman AFB (KSZL)
Heavy Snow Accumulation greater than or equal to 2 in. within 12 hrs. is expected at Whiteman AFB.

Table A4.9. Upgrade of a Weather Watch to Forecast Weather Warning.

Weather Warning #06-022
Valid 30/2230Z (30/1730L) TO 01/0000Z (30/1900L)


Weather Watch for Whiteman AFB (KSZL)
Heavy snow with accumulation greater than or equal to 2 in. in 12 hrs is forecasted to occur at Whiteman
AFB.
This upgrades weather watch 06-037.

Table A4.10. Extension of a Forecast Watch/Weather Warning.

Weather Warning 06-022
Valid 30/2230Z (30/1730L) TO 01/0100Z (30/2000L)
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                        47


Weather Watch for Whiteman AFB (KSZL)
Heavy snow with accumulation greater than or equal to 2 in. in 12 hrs is forecasted to occur at Whiteman
AFB. This is an extension.

Table A4.11. Observed Weather Advisory.

Weather Advisory 09-004
Valid 21/1537Z (21/1037L) To UFN (UFN)
Observed potential for B-2 Induction Icing exists at Whiteman AFB.

Table A4.12. Observed Weather Warning.

Whiteman AFB Weather Warning #06-025
Valid 15/1533Z (15/1033L) To UFN (UFN)
Observed Lightning occurring within 5 nm. of Whiteman AFB.
 48                                                WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


                                        Attachment 5
      WEATHER WARNING/WATCH/ADVISORY NOTIFICATION DIAGRAMS

A5.1. If the AFWS system is out of commission, weather observations and other appropriate
data will be disseminated by the WF or 26 OWS via telephone/hotline IAW Alternate
Notification Chain flowchart (Figure A5.2). Notification assignments in Dissemination
Flowchart also apply during relocation to the Alternate Weather Support Site.
A5.2. Agencies will notify the WF when their AFWS account is out of commission. After
conducting initial system checks, the WF will then log it out through Air Force Weather Agency
help desk at Offutt AFB, or 509 CS/SCOSC (Communications Focal Point) if it appears to be a
local line problem.

Figure A5.1. Primary Notification Chain.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                          49


Figure A5.2. Alternate Notification Chain.




  Note: This is a telephone notification plan (in the event of an AFWS outage). All other
              agencies will be notified as described in the notification chain.
                           **Only when required by operations
 50                                                   WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


                                          Attachment 6
 EXAMPLE FORMAT FOR WEATHER WARNINGS, WATCHES AND ADVISORIES

A6.1. Weather Advisories.

Table A6.1. Weather Advisories.

WEATHER ADVISORY 09-001
VALID 21/1537Z (21/1037L) TO UFN (UFN)
Observed potential for B-2 Induction Icing exists at Whiteman AFB.


WEATHER ADVISORY 09-002
VALID 21/1537Z (21/1037L) TO UFN (UFN)
Observed Crosswinds >= 15 but < 25 kts are occurring at Whiteman AFB.


WEATHER ADVISORY 09-003
VALID 21/1537Z (21/1037L) TO UFN (UFN)
Observed Crosswinds >= 25 kts at Whiteman AFB.


WEATHER ADVISORY 09-004
VALID 21/1537Z (21/1037L) TO UFN (UFN)
Observed Surface Winds greater than or equal to 25 but less than 35 kts are occurring at
Whiteman AFB.


WEATHER ADVISORY 09-005
VALID 21/1605Z (21/1105L) TO UFN (UFN)
Observed Wind Chill less than or equal to -15 but greater than -45 F. at Whiteman AFB


WEATHER ADVISORY 09-006
VALID 21/1605Z (21/1105L) TO UFN (UFN)
Observed Wind Chill less than or equal to -45 but greater than or equal to -65 F. at Whiteman
AFB.


WEATHER ADVISORY 09-007
VALID 21/1605Z (21/1105L) TO UFN (UFN)
Observed Wind Chill less than -65 F. at Whiteman AFB.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                  51



WEATHER ADVISORY 09-008
VALID 21/1605Z (21/1105L) TO UFN (UFN)
Observed Lightning from Thunderstorms within 25 nm. of Whiteman AFB.


WEATHER ADVISORY 09-009
VALID 21/1605Z (21/1105L) TO UFN (UFN)
Observed Lightning is occurring within 50 nm. of Whiteman AFB

A6.2. Weather Warnings.

Table A6.2. Weather Warnings.

WEATHER WARNING 01
VALID 21/1612Z (21/1112L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Tornado expected within 5 nm of Whiteman AFB.


WEATHER WARNING 02
VALID 21/1612Z (21/1112L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Hail is expected to occur at Whiteman AFB. Maximum expected: ½ inch.


WEATHER WARNING 03
VALID 21/1612Z (21/1112L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Winds greater than or equal to 35 kts are expected at Whiteman AFB. Max expected: 45 kts.


WEATHER WARNING 04
VALID 21/1612Z (21/1112L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Freezing Precipitation (Any Intensity) is expected at Whiteman AFB.


WEATHER WARNING 05
VALID 21/1612Z (21/1112L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Blizzard with Falling and or Blowing Snow occurring and Visibility less than or equal to 1/4 mi and
Winds greater than or equal to 30 kts for 3 hrs or more is expected at Whiteman AFB.


WEATHER WARNING 06
VALID 21/1612Z (21/1112L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Heavy Snow Accumulation greater than or equal to 2 in within 12 hrs is expected at Whiteman
 52                                                   WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


AFB.


WEATHER WARNING 07
VALID 21/1612Z (21/1112L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Observed Lightning occurring within 5 nm of Whiteman AFB.


WEATHER WARNING 08
VALID 21/1612Z (21/1112L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Observed Lightning occurring within 10 nm of Whiteman AFB.

A6.3. Weather Watches.

Table A6.3. Weather Watches.

WEATHER WATCH 01
VALID 21/1615Z (21/1115L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Potential for Tornado exists at Whiteman AFB.


WEATHER WATCH 02
VALID 21/1615Z (21/1115L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Potential for Hail is expected to occur at Whiteman AFB. Maximum expected: ½ inch.


WEATHER WATCH 03
VALID 21/1615Z (21/1115L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Potential for winds greater than or equal to 35 kts are expected at Whiteman AFB. Max expected:
45 kts.


WEATHER WATCH 04
VALID 21/1615Z (21/1115L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Potential for Freezing Precipitation exists at Whiteman AFB.


WEATHER WATCH 05
VALID 21/1615Z (21/1115L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Potential for Snow Accumulation greater than or equal to 2 in within 12 hrs exist at Whiteman
AFB.


WEATHER WATCH 06
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                        53


VALID 21/1615Z (21/1115L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Blizzard with Falling and or Blowing Snow potential exists and Visibility less than or equal to 1/4
mi and Winds greater than or equal to 30 kts for 3 hours or more at Whiteman AFB.


WEATHER WATCH 07
VALID 21/1615Z (21/1115L) TO 21/1812Z (21/1312L)
Potential for Lightning exists within 5 nm of Whiteman AFB.
 54                                                  WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


                                      ATTACHMENT 7
                WEATHER CRITERIA CUSTOMER RESPONSE MATRIX

Table A7.1. Weather Criteria Customer Response Matrix.

   Threshold value         26 OWS and 509 OSS/OSW       Lead Time       Rationale/Actions Taken
                                   Product               Needed

Tornado                  Forecast Weather Warning      15 minutes    Cease Flight Line Activities
                                                                     Take Cover

Tornado                  Forecast Weather Watch        Issue on      Hangar Aircraft/Secure Vehicles
                                                       Potential
Any Size Hail            Forecast Weather Warning      90 minutes    Hangar Aircraft
Lightning W/I 50NM       Observed Weather Advisory     As observed   SOF Decision Point
Lightning W/I 25NM       Observed Weather Advisory     As observed   SOF Decision Point
                                                                     Helicopter GO/NO GO,
                                                                     509 OG approves take-
                                                                     offs/landings (20 nm)
Lightning W/I 10 NM      Observed Weather Warning      As observed   Cease aircraft lift OPS (509
                                                                     MXS)
                                                                     Munitions/Fuels work toward
                                                                     Work towards a stop point (509
                                                                     MXS, AMXS, MUNS)
                                                                     *Non-essential A-10 Flight line
                                                                     Maintenance Actions Cease (303
                                                                     FS)
Lightning W/I 5 NM       Forecast Weather Watch        30 minutes    Prepare stop actions
Lightning W/I 5 NM       Observed Weather Warning      As observed   Cease refueling, and open
                                                                     Tank/line operations (509 MXS)
                                                                     A-10 Flight line Maintenance
                                                                     Actions cease (303 FS)
                                                                     Stop explosive OPS (509 MXS,
                                                                     AMXS, MUNS)
Low Level Wind Shear     TAF/PIREPs/Briefings          As observed   Limit T-38 touch-and-go OPS
Crosswinds  15kts       Observed Weather Advisory     As observed   Stop A-10/B-2 lift OPS (509
                                                                     MXS)
                                                                     No T-38 touch-and-go OPS (wet
                                                                     runway)
Crosswinds  25kts       Observed Weather Advisory     As observed   T-38 touch and go limit (on dry
                                                                     runway) 30 kts xwnd is T/O and
                                                                     full stop limit
SFC Wind  30kts         TAF/PIREPs/Briefings          As observed   Limit heavy equipment OPS
SFC Wind  25kts         Observed Advisory             As observed   Stop high reach OPS
                                                                     Remove/Secure non-powered
                                                                     AGE outside of hangars
SFC Wind  35kts;        Forecast Weather Warning      90 minutes    Parachute OPS limit
max value specified in                                               Moor flight line aircraft
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                               55


warning                                                             Cease Heavy Equipment OPS at
                                                                    50kts
Induction Icing for B-2   Observed Weather Advisory   As observed   FOD engines out/no start
GTE LGT ICG SFC-          TAF/PIREPs/Briefings        As observed   T-38 limits in rime or greater
180                                                                 icing
                                                                    Cease helicopter operations
Wind Chill –15° to -      Observed Advisory           As observed   Limit/Monitor outdoor activity
44°F
Wind Chill –45° to –      Observed Advisory           As observed   Limit/Monitor outdoor activity
65° F
Wind Chill < -65°F        Observed Advisory           As observed   Limit/Monitor outdoor activity
Temperature  85F        Call Bio-Env @ 687-4325     As observed   Limit/Monitor outdoor activity
                          IAW WABI 48-103             Mar-          Ref: WAFBI 48-103
                                                      May/15Sep-
                                                      Nov
 2‖ Snow in 12 hrs       Forecast Weather Watch      Issue on      509 CES recalls stand-by snow
                                                      potential     removal crews.         509
                                                                    BW/CC reviews delayed
                                                                    reporting/early dismissal
                                                                    procedures IAW WAFBI 10-207
 2‖ Snow in 12 hrs       Forecast Weather Warning    90 minutes    Stop aircraft life/tow operations
                                                                    Stop AGE deliveries
                                                                    Monitor road conditions
                                                                    Stop munitions deliveries
Blizzard Conditions       Forecast Weather Watch      Issue on      509 BW/CC reviews delayed
(winds > 30KT and                                     potential     reporting/early dismissal
visibility < 1/4NM                                                  procedures IAW WAFBI 10-207
lasting for more than 3                                             Monitor road conditions
hours
Blizzard Conditions       Forecast Weather Warning    90 minutes    Stop aircraft life/tow operations
(winds > 30KT and                                                   Stop AGE deliveries
visibility < 1/4NM                                                  Monitor road conditions
lasting for more than 3                                             Stop munitions deliveries
hours
Freezing Precipitation    Forecast Weather Warning    90 minutes    Stop AGE deliveries/aircraft
                                                                    tows
                                                                    Stop munitions deliveries
                                                                    Add munitions movements
                                                                    Monitor road conditions
                                                                    Ground/Hangar helicopters
                                                                    Modify ambulance runs
Freezing Precipitation    Forecast Weather Watch      Issue on      Some limited aircraft hangering
                                                      potential     if not needed for day’s flying
                                                                    509 BW/CC reviews delayed
                                                                    reporting/early dismissal
                                                                    procedures IAW WAFBI 10-207
MDT TURB SFC-100          TAF/PIREPs/Briefings        As observed   Ground Helicopters
CIG/VIS 1500’/3SM         TAF/SPECI CRITERIA          As observed   Category 5 pilot minimums
                                                                    IAW AFI11-
                                                                    202V3_AFGSCSUP_I Table
 56                                           WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


                                                              8.1
CIG/VIS 700’/2SM         TAF/SPECI CRITERIA     As observed   Category 4 pilot minimums IAW
                                                              AFI11-202V3_AFGSCSUP_I
                                                              Table 8.1
CIG/VIS 500’/1.5SM       TAF/SPECI CRITERIA     As observed   Category 3 pilot minimums IAW
(Or published approach                                        AFI11-202V3_AFGSCSUP_I
mins. Whichever is                                            Table 8.1
higher)
CIG/VIS 300’/1SM         TAF/SPECI CRITERIA     As observed   Category 2 pilot minimums IAW
(Or published approach                                        AFI11-202V3_AFGSCSUP_I
mins. Whichever is                                            Table 8.1
higher)
CIG/VIS 200’/1/2SM       TAF/SPECI CRITERIA     As observed   Airfield minimums
                                                              Note: All B-2 pilots are cat 1
                                                              and follow published mins
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                               57


                                         ATTACHMENT 8
                 FORECAST AND OBSERVATION CODE BREAKDOWN

A8.1. Forecast Breakdown.

Table A8.1. Forecast Breakdown.
KSZL TAF AMD 271515 36010G20KT 4800 BR SCT005 OVC012 510002 650208
 1    2    3     4         5     6         7               8       9
QNH3012INS T32/21Z T12/12Z
     10             11
TEMPO 1821 OVC005
     12
BECMG 0102 04008KT 9999 OVC025 650208 QNH3020INS WND VRB04KT AFT 05
    13                                                14
   A8.1.1. Station identifier (ICAO) for Whiteman Air Force Base.
   A8.1.2. Data type. TAF - Terminal Aerodrome Forecast.
   A8.1.3. Modifier. AMD - Amendment, COR - Correction, RTD - Transmission delayed.
   A8.1.4. Valid Time. TAF - 24-hour valid period DDHHHH.
   A8.1.5. Winds - The first three digits represent the direction from which the wind is blowing
   to the nearest 10 degrees, followed by the two-digit prevailing wind speed--gusts follow a
   ―G‖.
   A8.1.6. Visibility, in meters, followed by the weather or obstructions to visibility:

Table A8.2. Visibility.

    Statute Miles                Meters                Statute Miles                Meters

          1/16                    0100                     1 1/2                     2,400

          1/8                     0200                     1 5/8                     2,600

          3/16                    0300                     1 3/4                     2,800

          1/4                     0400                     1 7/8                     3,000

          5/16                    0500                       2                       3,200

          3/8                     0600                     2 1/4                     3,600

          1/2                     0800                     2 1/2                     4,000

          5/8                    1,000                     2 3/4                     4,400

          3/4                    1,200                       3                       4,800
 58                                                        WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


           7/8                         1,400                      4                     6,000

            1                          1,600                      5                     8,000

           1 1/8                       1,800                      6                     9,000

           1 1/4                       2,000                      7+                    9,999

           1 3/8                       2,200

Table A8.3. Present Weather Identifiers.

                   QUALIFIER                                    WEATHER PHENOMENA

Intensity or Proximity         Descriptor        Precipitation         Obscurations        Other
            1                      2                   3                       4                5

Light                      MI Shallow          DZ Drizzle             BR Mist (Fog)   PO Well
                                                                                      Developed
                                                                                      Dust/Sand
                                                                                      Whirls

Moderate                   PR Partial          RA Rain                FG Fog          SQ Squalls
                           (covering part of
                           the aerodrome)

Heavy (well developed      BC Patches          SN Snow                FU Smoke        FC Funnel
in the case of dust/sand                                                              Cloud(s)
whirls, dust devils and    DR Drifting         SG Snow Grains         VA Volcanic     (Tornado or
tornadoes/waterspouts                                                                 Waterspout)

                           DR Low              IC Ice Crystals        DU Widespread   SS Sand Storm
                           Drifting            (Diamond Dust)         Dust

VC In the Vicinity         BL Blowing          PL Ice Pellets         SA Sand         DS Dust storm

                           SH Shower(s)        GR Hail                HZ Haze

                           TS                  GS Small Hail          PY Spray
                           Thunderstorm        and or Snow
                                               Pellets
                           FZ Freezing

Note 1: 4,800 TSRA = 4,800 meters (3 miles) in thunderstorms and rain showers.
Note 2: 0400 FZDZ FG = 400 meters (1/4 mile) in freezing drizzle and dense fog.
A8.1.7. Sky coverage and height AGL in hundreds of feet of the base of the layer
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                         59


Table A8.4. AGL Coverage.

                      SKC = Clear                                   0/8 coverage

                      FEW = Few                                   1/8 – 2/8 coverage

                  SCT = Scattered                                 3/8 – 4/8 coverage

                  BKN = Broken                                    5/8 – 7/8 coverage

                 OVC = Overcast                                     8/8 coverage

    A8.1.8. Icing intensity and layers.
Table A8.5. Icing Intensity, Layers and Codes

6 = Icing Indicator
5 = Intensity (see Figure A8.3)
020 = Height above surface of base of layer in hundreds of feet
8 = Thickness of layer in thousands of feet

                         Code                                           Icing

                            0                                        Trace icing

                            1                                        Light mixed

                            2                                        Light rime

                            3                                        Light clear

                            4                                      Moderate mixed

                            5                                      Moderate rime

                            6                                      Moderate clear

                            7                                       Severe mixed

                            8                                        Severe rime

                            9                                        Severe clear

    A8.1.9. Turbulence intensity and layers.

Table A8.6. Turbulence intensity, layers and codes.

5 = Turbulence Indicator
1 = Intensity (see below)
 60                                                       WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


000 = Height above surface of base of layer in hundreds of feet
2 = Thickness of layer in thousands of feet

                       Code                                                    Icing

                         1                                                     Light

                         2                                    Moderate in clear air, occasionally

                         3                                        Moderate in clear air, frequent

                         4                                        Moderate in cloud, occasionally

                         5                                          Moderate in cloud, frequent

                         6                                        Severe in clear air, occasionally

                         7                                          Severe in clear air, frequent

                         8                                         Severe in cloud, occasionally

                         9                                           Severe in cloud, frequent

                         X                                             Extreme Turbulence

    A8.1.10. Altimeter Setting. The minimum forecast for that time period.
    A8.1.11. Max/Min temperature followed by time of occurrence (UTC).
    A8.1.12. TEMPO = the hours during which conditions may be observed to occur
    intermittently.
    A8.1.13. BECMG = a change in predominant conditions where the new conditions should be
    valid by the end of the BECMG time group.
    A8.1.14. Remarks are used to elaborate on preceding data.
A8.2. Observation Breakdown.

Table A8.7. Observation Breakdown.
METAR KSZL 1655Z 26014G22KT 170V270 1SM R26/1600FT -TSRA BR FEW005
    1     2      3     4        5     6       7          8     9
64/45 ALSTG 30.05 RMK TS OVD MOV E TWR VIS 2 AO2A SLP177
 10      11              12                   13    14
    A8.2.1. Observation type; METAR or SPECI.
        A8.2.1.1. METAR = Regularly scheduled hourly observation transmitted between H+55
        and H+59.
        A8.2.1.2. SPECI = Special Observation – taken to report significant changes in weather
        elements.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                                         61


       A8.2.1.3. LOCAL = Local Observation – taken to report changes in conditions
       significant to local operations which do not meet special criteria.
   A8.2.2. ICAO station identifier for Whiteman Air Force Base.
   A8.2.3. Time in ZULU (Z).
   A8.2.4. Wind direction, speed, and gusts reported to the nearest 10 degrees in 2 digits and in
   knots using 3 digits with gusts following a ―G.‖ Prevailing wind direction and speed are
   averaged every two minutes.
   A8.2.5. Variability of wind direction 60 degrees or more.
   A8.2.6. Visibility measured in Statute Miles (SM) from normal point of observation.
   A8.2.7. Runway Visual Range (RVR) - instrument determined visibility in hundreds of feet;
   in this example, RVR for Runway 22 is 1,600Ft.
   A8.2.8. Present weather. In this example, thunderstorm with light rain (TSRA) and light fog
   (BR) (see table on page 49 for full present weather identifier).
   A8.2.9. Sky condition with cloud layers measured in eighths of cloud coverage and heights
   measured in hundreds of feet above ground level (AGL). (Example: FEW005 = Few clouds
   at 500ft).

Table A8.8. Sky coverage contractions.

                   CLR = Clear                                           0/8 coverage

                   FEW = Few                                           1/8 – 2/8 coverage

                 SCT = Scattered                                       3/8 – 4/8 coverage

                 BKN = Broken                                          5/8 – 7/8 coverage

                 OVC = Overcast                                          8/8 coverage

VV = Indefinite/definite ceiling cannot be determined. Vertical visibility reported as how far can be seen
                                             into the clouds.

   A8.2.10. Temperature and dew point; in degrees Fahrenheit locally and degrees Celsius long
   line.
   A8.2.11. Altimeter setting (ALSTG) in inches of mercury.
   A8.2.12. Remarks (RMK): Remarks to surface observation.
   A8.2.13. AO2 – Automated Observing System not augmented.                       AO2A – Automated
   Observing system is being augmented.
   A8.2.14. Sea Level Pressure.
 62                                                WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


                                     ATTACHMENT 9
            ENGINE INDUCTION ICING GROUND RUN TIMES MATRIX

A9.1. Engine Induction Icing Ground Run Times.

Figure A9.1. Engine Induction Ground Run Times Matrix.




Note 1: If the Ground Run Time (with an original start time) is changed to a MORE restrictive
Ground Run Time, operate from that point on (with a new reference time) no longer than the
MORE restrictive Ground Run Time, not to exceed the ORIGINAL Ground Run Time (from the
original start time).
Note 2: If the Ground Run Time (with an original start time) is changed to a LESS restrictive
Ground Run Time, use the FULL Ground Run Time for the LESS restrictive Ground Run Time
(from the original start time). A subsequent change back to a MORE restrictive Ground Run
Time would revert back to the MORE restrictive Ground Run Time (from the original start time).
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                63


                          ATTACHMENT 10
                      OPREP-3 REPORT FORMAT
 64                                                      WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


                                       ATTACHMENT 11
          WHITEMAN AFB SEVERE WEATHER ACTION PLAN CHECKLIST

A11.1. Whiteman AFB Severe Weather Action Plan Checklist.

Table A11.1. Whiteman AFB Severe Weather Action Plan Checklist.

#       Who                         Actions To Be Accomplished                        Yes   No   N/A

1      Weather     Initiate recall of personnel as deemed necessary (based on
      Technician   mission, type of weather threat, anticipated workload, etc.).
                   Assume role as senior flight member until recalled personnel
                   arrive.
                   Conduct initial, concise METCONs so key personnel are
2      Weather
                   apprised of the situation. Immediately assess the severe
      Technician
                   weather threat and, if not already accomplished:

                   2.1. Coordinate with 26 OWS on watches/warnings.
                   2.2. Issue observed advisories/warnings as needed.
                   Update SOF, MADDOG, and Top 3 of severe weather
3      Weather
                   conditions.
      Technician
                   Delegate Tasks (double-up duties until enough people arrive):
4      Senior
       Member
                   4.1. OPUP/WSR-88D monitor (senior member).
                   4.2. Observations and warnings (airfield services technician).
                   4.3. Severe Weather Spotter (airfield services technician).
                   4.4. Phone monitor (mission weather technician).
                   Recurring Duties:
5      Senior
       Member
                   5.1. Delegate according to mission requirements, tasks and
                   manning.
                   5.2. Perform OPUP/WSR-88D monitor duties.
                   5.3. Provide briefings to SOF, MADDOG & Top 3 as required.
                   5.4. Ensure the following tasks are accomplished on a
                   recurring basis:
                   5.4.1. Recall additional personnel as deemed necessary.
                   5.4.2. Adjust task assignments as deemed necessary.
                   5.4.3. Review warning criteria to verify all required warnings
                   are issued and all customers have been notified.
                   5.4.4. Keep senior staff, command post, and customers
                   apprised.
                   5.4.5. Ensure personnel focus on assigned tasks.
                   5.4.6. Relay important severe weather information to the NWS
                   office (816-540-6021).
                   5.4.7. Ensure team is performing in concert (i.e., continuity in
                   spoken and written information).
                   5.4.8. Provide meteorological expertise and guide decision-
                   making.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                                                        65


                  5.4.9. Keep ―wall hangers‖ out of operations area.
                  Primary Duties:
6   OPUP/WSR-
    88D Monitor
                  6.1. Interrogate storms and related phenomena using
                  OPUP/WSR-88D products. Exploit user functions whenever
                  possible.
                  6.2. Monitor RPS list and change lists as the situation
                  demands.
                  6.3. Advise Airfield Service Technician when thunderstorms
                  are within 5NM, within 10NM, and outside of 10NM of the
                  base.
                  6.4. Provide Airfield Service Technician with CB and
                  thunderstorm positions and movements.
                  6.5. Archive data deemed necessary.
                  6.6. If a tornado is reported within 25 NM, archive data for (as
                  a minimum) the period one hour prior through one hour after
                  the event. Archive other events as deemed appropriate by the
                  senior member.
                  Primary Duties:
7    Weather
    Technician
                  7.1. Continue primary duties and follow duty priorities.
                  7.2. Work closely with the mission weather technician/senior
                  member; allow this individual to accomplish tasks which will
                  free you to handle critical tasks such as continuous weather
                  watch, observations and warnings.
                  7.3. Handle mission duties not directly related to severe
                  weather forecasting (e.g., flight weather briefings).
                  7.4. Review all products for accuracy and horizontal
                  consistency (e.g., warnings, MEF, flight weather briefings).
                  7.5. Review PIREPs, SIGMETS for flight hazards, WWUS
                  bulletins for severe weather reports, etc.; incorporate findings
                  into forecast products.
                  7.6. Monitor OPUP/WSR-88D when Senior Member is called
                  to the crisis action team/battle staff.
                  7.7. Maintain continuous weather watch.
                  7.8. Issue observed warnings as needed.
                  7.9. Generate and analyze an LAWC and METWATCH local
                  area weather hourly.
                  7.10. Review all products for accuracy and horizontal
                  consistency (e.g., runway changes, runway conditions,
                  incorporation of radar data, TAF, warnings) and work with the
                  OWS duty forecaster to amend as required or desired.
                  Primary Duties:
8    Severe
     Weather
                  8.1. Assume a vantage point in the Control Tower (if possible)
     Spotter
                  or another safe vantage point and use binoculars to closely
                  watch for tornadic activity, hail, visible wind damage, and other
                  possible severe weather indicators.
                  8.2. Coordinate closely with airfield services technician to pass
                  information which can be used in weather observation.
66                                                     WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


               Primary Duties:
9    Phone
     Monitor
               9.1. Screen calls to allow other flight members to focus on
               their duties. Answer questions directly when possible, and
               prioritize operational calls for the airfield technician and senior
               member.
               9.2. When taking calls, find out who the person is and what
               information they need.
               9.3. Direct calls from outside agencies (other than NWS, local
               and State Police) to Public Affairs (687-6125).
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                    67


                               ATTACHMENT 12
                           PLANNING MEF EXAMPLE

A12.1. Planning MEF Example.

Figure A12.1. Planning MEF Example.
 68                                           WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


                                  ATTACHMENT 13
                   5-DAY FORECAST WITH IMPACTS EXAMPLE

A13.1. 5-Day Forecast with Impacts Example.

Figure A13.1. 5-Day Forecast with Impacts Example.
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                    69


                               ATTACHMENT 14
                             FLYING MEF EXAMPLE

A14.1. Flying MEF Example.

Figure A14.1. Flying MEF Example.
70   WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012
WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012                         71


                                  ATTACHMENT 15
                      AIRFIELD OPERATING MEF EXAMPLE

A15.1. Airfield Operating MEF Example.

Figure A15.1. Airfield Operating MEF Example.
 72                                            WHITEMANAFBI15-111 30 MAY 2012


                                  ATTACHMENT 16
                       TACTICAL DECISION AID EXAMPLE

A16.1. Tactical Decision Aid (TDA) Example.

Figure A16.1. Tactical Decision Aid (TDA) Example.
