BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                     WHITEMAN AIR FORCE BASE
509TH BOMB WING                                                     INSTRUCTION 21-105

                                                                                    1 JULY 2013

                                                                                    Maintenance

                                                AIRFIELD TOOL CONTROL FOR ALL NON-
                                                   AIRCRAFT MAINTENANCE AGENCIES

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 509 MXG/MXQI                                                      Certified by: 509 BW/CV
                                                                 (Colonel Robert S. Spalding III)
                                                                                         Pages: 9


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 21-1, Air and Space Maintenance, and
fulfills the requirements of Air Force Instruction (AFI) 21-101, Aerospace Equipment
Maintenance Management, 16 August 2011, Paragraph 3.2.2 to develop a coordinated wing
instruction to control tools, equipment, and electronic devices from all wing agencies dispatching
to aircraft parking/runway/taxi areas or aircraft maintenance facilities. Any deviations from this
guidance are prohibited without 509 MXG/MXQI review and 509 BW/CV waiver/variance
approval. It applies to all units assigned to the 509th Bomb Wing (509 BW), to include US Air
Force Reserve, ANG, and Civil Air Patrol, with the exception of the 509th Maintenance Group
(509 MXG). These excluded units will follow guidance in AFI 21-101, including applicable
local and MAJCOM supplements. Maintain records created as a result of published processes
prescribed IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of records IAW the AF
Records Disposition Schedule (RDS), available from the Air Force Portal at the AF Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) link.

1. Purpose. Positive control and accountability of tools, equipment and electronic devices used
on aircraft parking, runway and taxi areas are essential for the elimination of FOD (Foreign
Object Debris). FOD-related incidents cost the Air Force millions of dollars each year. The
purpose of this publication is to provide 509 BW agencies the necessary guidance to implement a
solid program to control tools and equipment taken onto the airfield. Due to the diverse nature of
509 BW agencies, one size does not fit all when it comes to tool control policy. Some units such
as Communications Squadron may have only a few items, while others, like Civil Engineering
Squadron and Logistics Readiness Squadron, have literally hundreds of pieces of equipment. To
 2                                                        WHITEMANAFBI21-105 1 JULY 2013


be in compliance with this instruction, units must establish a program or demonstrate that
existing programs meet the intent of positive tool and equipment accountability and control.
2. Definitions.
     2.1. Tool: Device/instrument used to perform maintenance and repair of Real Property
     facilities, roadways, airfields, power distribution systems, airfield lighting, aircraft barriers,
     and utility functions.
     2.2. Equipment: A device required to accomplish a task or carry out work, such as
     surveyors’ transit, portable generator, etc.
     2.3. Electronic Device: Portable items such as but not limited to the following, land mobile
     radios (LMR), cell phones, and laptop computers.
     2.4. Airfield: Includes all areas of the installation involved in aircraft operation, such as
     taxiways, parking ramps, hardstands, and the runway.
     2.5. Aircraft and flight line maintenance facilities: Includes all buildings/docks/structures
     inside PL2 and PL3 areas, and aircraft maintenance hangars for T-38 and A-10 aircraft and
     helicopters.
3. Responsibilities.
     3.1. Unit commanders are responsible for ensuring an effective program is in place and
     compliant with this instruction for those sections that perform duties on the airfield or in
     aircraft maintenance facilities. Commanders must also ensure that contractors who work on
     the airfield or on aircraft maintenance facilities understand the importance of tool control in
     these areas.
     3.2. Flight chiefs/section NCOICs (or equivalent) determine what tools, equipment, and
     electronic devices fall under the scope of this instruction and will:
        3.2.1. Develop a system of inventory and control for all items brought out to the airfield
        or maintenance facilities to ensure they are returned to the section upon the completion of
        the job.
     3.3. Everyone who performs duties on the airfield or in maintenance facilities is responsible
     for safeguarding their equipment against loss by ensuring accountability before and after
     each trip. Lost or missing tool/equipment items within FOD critical areas need to be reported
     to the work center custodian or supervisor immediately. Extreme measures should be taken
     with locating missing item(s). If missing item(s) are not located within one hour, the
     supervisor will contact the Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) office at ext. 7-6720 and
     MXG Quality Assurance office at ext. 7-3195 immediately for instructions on further actions.
     AFGSC Form 145, Lost Tool/Object Report, will be completed by the responsible
     individual(s) and given to the 509 BW FOD Prevention NCO to be filed.
     3.4. 509 MXG QA will serve as subject matter experts to assist sections with setting up an
     effective program.
4. Products available. While not mandatory for non-aircraft maintenance units, the following
products are readily available:
WHITEMANAFBI21-105 1 JULY 2013                                                                     3


   4.1. Units that do not already have a computer program to implement a tool control program
   may use the Tool Accountability System ™ (TAS). This is a computer program developed
   for the Air Force primarily designed for aircraft maintenance units, but the software is very
   adaptable      for   any     unit   and    is     available  for     free    download      at:
   https://ceds.ssg.gunter.af.mil/ais/products.asp. Contact your unit computer administrator
   before installing any software.
   4.2. AFGSC Form 140, Consolidated Tool Kit (CTK) Inventory and Control Log.
   Inventory and Control Log, may be used to sign tool kits or other equipment out and to
   document inventory upon return. (see attachment 2)
   4.3. AFGSC Form 145, Lost Tool/Object Report. This report is mandatory to be
   completed, by the individual losing the tool/object, anytime a tool/object is lost on the
   airfield or in an aircraft maintenance facility. If this situation arises, immediately contact 509
   MXG QA for guidance on completing the form. (see attachment 3)
5. Program elements. A solid tool control program in the context of this instruction must
include the following:
   5.1. Master Inventory Listing (MIL): A listing of all items dispatched out. Individual tool
   boxes will include an inventory of all items in that box.
   5.2. Daily Inventory Log: Proof of physical accountability of all items on the MIL before
   and after each duty day or shift.
   5.3. Sign In/Sign Out Log: Method to show custodial responsibility of items checked out for
   use on the airfield or in maintenance facilities. NOTE: Ideally, a second person (if
   available) should sign in the item upon turn-in.
   5.4. Clearly mark all CTKs/TKs and tools with the EID. The EID will consist of units
   organizational shop code and three digit number. Units must place the EID on all CTKs,
   tools, and dispatch-able equipment that is of sufficient size. The EID must be placed on the
   outside of dispatchable CTKs. For example, HVAC shop will mark CTK and tools with
   HVAC001.
   5.5. Program continuity book: Specific contents are at the discretion of the flight
   chief/section NCOIC (or equivalent), but should include shop policy and the MIL.
   5.6. For additional guidance refer to AFI 21-101, Chapter 10 and Chapter 14.




                                              THOMAS A. BUSSIERE
                                              Brigadier General, USAF
                                              Commander
 4                                               WHITEMANAFBI21-105 1 JULY 2013


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 21-101, Aerospace Equipment Maintenance Management
Prescribed Forms
AFGSC Form 145, Lost Tool/Object Report
AFGSC Form 140, Consolidated Tool Kit (CTK) Inventory and Control Log
Adopted Forms
None

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFPD—Air Force Policy Directive
AFRIMS—AF Records Information Management System
CC—Commander
CTK—Consolidated Tool Kit
EID—Equipment Identification Designator
FOD—Foreign Object Debris
HVAC—Heating Cooling Air Conditioning
LMR—Land mobile radios
MIL—Master Inventory Listing
MOC—Maintenance Operations Center
MXG—Maintenance Group
NCO—Non Commissioned Officer
NCOIC—Non Commissioned officer in Charge
OG—Operations Group
OI—Operating Instruction
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
QA—Quality Assurance
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
TAS—Tool Accountability System
TK—Tool Kit
QA—Quality Assurance
WHITEMANAFBI21-105 1 JULY 2013   5
6                                    WHITEMANAFBI21-105 1 JULY 2013


                           Attachment 2
    AFGSC FORM 140, CONSOLIDATED TOOL KIT (CTK) INVENTORY AND
                          CONTROL LOG
WHITEMANAFBI21-105 1 JULY 2013   7
8                           WHITEMANAFBI21-105 1 JULY 2013


                  Attachment 3
    AFGSC FORM 145, LOST TOOL/OBJECT REPORT
WHITEMANAFBI21-105 1 JULY 2013   9
