BY ORDER OF THE                                                                           WHITEMAN AIR FORCE BASE
509TH BOMB WING COMMANDER                                                                       INSTRUCTION 31-116

                                                                                                                      21 MARCH 2013

                                                                                                                                     Security

                                                                                       INSTALLATION TRAFFIC CODE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 509 SFS/S3L                                                                                   Certified by: 509 SFS/DFC
                                                                                              (Lt Col Christopher M. Neiman)
                                                                                                                     Pages: 31


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense and
provides guidance on a traffic code for operation of motor vehicles on Whiteman Air Force Base
(AFB). This instruction applies to all military personnel and civilians assigned, employed or
visiting the installation. This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information
protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013. System of records notice
F125 AF SPL, Traffic Accident and Violation Reports, applies. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records and disposed of in accordance with the Air
Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/.


       1.     Introduction. ...........................................................................................................    2
       2.     Driving Privileges. .................................................................................................        3
       3.     Motor Vehicle Registration. ...................................................................................              6
       4.     Installation Traffic Planning and Codes. ...............................................................                     7
       5.     Driving Records and the Traffic Point System. .....................................................                         24
       6.     Impounding Privately Owned Vehicles. ................................................................                       25

Attachment 1—GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION                                                                            27
 2                                                  WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


Attachment 2—TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS REQUIRING A CVB 1805                                               31


1. Introduction.
     1.1. Program Management. The Whiteman AFB traffic code is published by the authority
     contained in AFI 31-218(I), Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision. This code is based on
     applicable portions of the "Uniform Vehicle Code" (UVC) and "Model Traffic Ordinances"
     (MTO) published by the National Committee on Uniform Traffic Laws and Ordinances, 525
     School St. SW, Washington DC 20024.
     1.2. Applicability. This instruction is consistent with and supplementary to, the Missouri
     Revised Statutes which as applicable, are assimilated and enforceable regarding all motor
     vehicles and traffic matters on this installation not specifically addressed in this instruction.
     1.3. Responsibilities.
        1.3.1. The 509th Mission Support Group Commander (509 MSG/CC): Establishes and
        manages the local installation traffic supervision program.
        1.3.2. The 509th Security Forces Squadron Defense Force Commander (509 SFS/DFC):
        Principal advisor to the 509 MSG/CC on issues pertaining to the safe movement of
        personnel and traffic. Exercises staff responsibility for directing, regulating, and
        controlling traffic and enforcing installation rules pertaining to traffic control.
        1.3.3. 509th Bomb Wing Ground Safety (509 BW/SEG) Manager: Develops traffic
        accident prevention initiatives in support of the installation traffic safety program.
        Assists 509 SFS/DFC and other agencies with accident and incident investigations.
        1.3.4. 509th Civil Engineer Squadron Commander (509 CES/CC): Plans, designs,
        constructs and maintains streets and abutting lands. Determines appropriate design for
        efficient and safe traffic flow. Procures, constructs, installs and maintains permanent
        traffic and parking control devices.
        1.3.5. Installation Traffic Engineer: The installation traffic engineer is responsible for
        conducting formal traffic engineering studies and applying standard traffic engineering
        measures and techniques; as specified in the UVC and other official ordinances, laws and
        regulations, including the use of standardized traffic control devices, to reduce the
        number and severity of traffic accidents.
        1.3.6. Traffic Safety Coordinating Group (TSCG): This committee is chaired by the
        509th Mission Support Group Deputy Commander (509 MSG/CD) and is comprised of
        509 BW/SEG, 509 SFS/DFC, 509 CES/CC, 509th Civil Engineering Programs Flight
        (509th CES/CEP), 509th Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander (509 LRS/CC) and
        others as needed. The TSCG is responsible for coordinating and approving all matters
        relating to traffic procedures on the installation. The TSCG will serve as a community-
        installation traffic workshop and will coordinate installation traffic efforts with the local
        community as needed. The 509 MSG/CC will review meeting minutes.
        1.3.7. Units/Organizations: Commanders are responsible for ensuring each individual
        assigned to their unit/organization understands applicable traffic laws prior to operating a
        motor vehicle on Whiteman AFB.
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                                 3


   1.4. Delegation of Authority. The 509th Bomb Wing Commander (509 BW/CC) delegates
   the authority under this instruction to the 509 MSG/CC and portions to 509 MSG/CD.
2. Driving Privileges.
   2.1. Requirements for Driving Privileges. Driving a vehicle on Whiteman AFB is a
   privilege granted by the 509 MSG/CC. Operators who drive a motor vehicle on Whiteman
   AFB must produce, upon request from 509th Security Forces Squadron (509 SFS), the
   following:
       2.1.1. Proof of current and valid vehicle registration.
       2.1.2. Valid state operator’s license.
       2.1.3. An international operator’s license may be used in the place of a state operator’s
       license upon initial assignment to Whiteman AFB, for a 90-day period.
       2.1.4. Proof of current and valid insurance.
       2.1.5. Valid identification credentials or visitor pass.
       2.1.6. Record of state inspection (if state required).
   2.2. Base Entry Point Checks. 509 SFS may stop vehicles and personnel on Whiteman
   AFB based on 509 BW/CC authority. The 509 BW/CC delegated this authority to the 509
   MSG/CC. The 509 MSG/CC grants 509 SFS the authority to conduct examinations of
   vehicles and pedestrians without foundation for a search. These random checks are not based
   on probable cause that the vehicle or person possesses or contains contraband, but on 509
   BW/CC or delegated authority to protect government property and security of the
   installation. The 509 MSG/CC will determine the formula to be used, the location, the
   number of vehicles to be checked and the start times for the checks. The times will be varied
   and individual vehicles will not be singled out. The formula will be provided to the Police
   Services, Staff Non-commissioned Officer (NCO) who will disseminate the information to
   the Police Services Desk (PSD). NOTE: O-6s and above while in uniform and operating
   GOVs are considered mission critical and are exempted from searchs/detentions associated
   with routine Base Entry Point Checks and random antiterrorism vehicle inspections.
   2.3. Implied Consent to Blood, Breath or Urine Tests.
       2.3.1. Drivers give consent to evidential tests for alcohol and drug content of their blood,
       breath, and/or urine as a condition to operating a motor vehicle on Whiteman AFB;
       however, contact 509th Bomb Wing Staff Judge Advocate (509 BW/SJA) and Demand
       Reduction before taking blood or urine from a civilian. If after normal duty hours,
       coordinate with the on call 509 BW/SJA through 509th Bomb Wing Command Post (509
       BW/CP).
       2.3.2. 509 SFS will advise drivers suspected of driving under the influence that the
       results of the chemical test conducted under the implied consent provisions of AFI 31-
       218(I) may be used as evidence in a court-martial, non-judicial proceedings under Article
       15 of the UCMJ, administrative action or civil court proceeding. They will also be
       informed they do not have the right to have an attorney present before deciding if they
       will or will not take the test, and that the Installation Commander may revoke driving
       privileges if they fail to voluntarily submit to or complete a requested chemical test.
4                                                 WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


       2.3.3. Special rules of refusal without penalty exist for persons who have hemophilia,
       other blood-clotting disorders or any medical or surgical disorder under treatment with an
       anticoagulant. However, a refusal under such conditions is only valid with the
       concurrence of a medical doctor. A breath or urine test or both may be offered to
       individuals meeting this exemption rule.
    2.4. Impoundment of Motor Vehicles. By accepting the privilege and driving a motor
    vehicle on Whiteman AFB, consent is automatically given by the driver for 509 SFS to
    impound their motor vehicle for the following:
       2.4.1. Vehicles determined to be abandoned, in accordance with 509 SFS Operating
       Instruction 31-210 for more than 72 hours. Vehicles will be impounded in accordance
       with procedural requirements of AFI 31-218(I), para. 6-2.
       2.4.2. Vehicles illegally parked in violation of AFI 31-218(I), para 6-2 for one or more
       hours. Further guidance on vehicle impoundment is located in Chapter 6 of this
       instruction.
    2.5. Suspension or Revocation of Driving Privileges.
       2.5.1. Drivers who continually violate installation parking regulations or habitually
       violate other standards nonmoving in nature are subject to having their driving privileges
       suspended. Drivers who receive three citations for violating the installation parking
       regulations or other nonmoving violations in a 12-month period will have their
       installation driving privileges revoked for 30 days. Subsequent violations within the
       same 12-month period will subject the violator to an additional revocation of up to 12-
       months as determined by the 509 MSG/CC.
       2.5.2. When the suspension or revocation of driving privileges is being considered, the
       offender will be notified in writing. Except for incidents outlined in AFI 31-218(I), para
       2-6 all individuals have the right to request an administrative hearing prior to the
       suspension or revocation of driving privileges. The hearing will be conducted by the 509
       MSG/CC, 509 MSG/CD or an officer designated by G-series orders on behalf of the 509
       MSG/CC.
       2.5.3. Personnel found to be operating, or in actual physical control of a motor vehicle,
       under one of the following circumstances will be issued a letter by the 509 MSG/CC
       revoking/suspending their on-base driving privileges for the period indicated. Note:
       Multiple suspensions/revocations may be imposed to run consecutively or concurrently.
           2.5.3.1. Military offenders apprehended for or charged with a violation of Article
           111, UCMJ/Drunken or Reckless Operation of a Vehicle on base by Security Forces
           with a Blood Alcohol Content (BAC)/Breath Alcohol Content (BrAC) of 0.08 percent
           or higher or a police report or other official document reasonably showing the
           offender was drunk or impaired sufficiently to impair the rational and full exercise of
           the mental or physical faculties: Mandatory 1-year revocation.
           2.5.3.2. Military offenders arrested for or charged with a violation of state or local
           statutes for driving while intoxicated off base by civilian authorities with a
           BAC/BrAC of 0.08 percent or higher or a police report or other official document
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                             5


        meeting the same criteria in AFI 31-218(I),        para 2-4.3:    Mandatory 1-year
        revocation.
        2.5.3.3. Civilian offenders detained for or charged with a violation of state or local
        statutes for driving while intoxicated on base by Security Forces with a BAC/BrAC
        of 0.08 percent or higher or a police report or other official document meeting the
        same criteria in AFI 31-218(I), para 2-4.3: Mandatory 1-year revocation
        2.5.3.4. DOD civilian offenders arrested for or charged with a violation of state or
        local statutes for driving while intoxicated off base by civilian authorities with a
        BAC/BrAC of 0.08 percent or higher or a police report or other official document
        meeting the same criteria in AFI 31-218(I), para 2-4.3: Mandatory 1-year
        revocation. Note: Medical personnel will report the results of chemical tests to 509
        SFS/S5R and to the offender’s unit commander, both of whom will take appropriate
        actions under this instruction. Unit commanders/staff agency chiefs will forward the
        appropriate information to Drug/Alcohol Abuse managers.
        2.5.3.5. Operators of vehicles apprehended or detained for refusal to take or complete
        a BAC/ BrAC test or tests, by Security Forces or civil authorities to determine the
        presence of intoxicants, in accordance with implied consent: Mandatory 1-year
        revocation.
        2.5.3.6. No person shall drive a motor vehicle, so as to cause it to leave the premises
        of an establishment at which, motor fuel offered for retail sale was dispensed into the
        fuel tank of such motor vehicle; unless payment or authorized charge for motor fuel
        dispensed has been made. Any person who fails to render proper payment is subject
        to being cited under this code. Offenders identified, located or cited by 509 SFS, and
        found guilty of theft of motor fuel under this provision, shall have his or her driving
        privileges suspended. Suspension of driving privileges pursuant to this section shall
        be made as follows:
            2.5.3.6.1. First offense: Mandatory suspension for 30 days.
            2.5.3.6.2. Second offense: Mandatory suspension for 60 days.
            2.5.3.6.3. Third or any subsequent offense: Mandatory suspension for one year.
        2.5.3.7. Operators discovered driving or having actual physical control of a motor
        vehicle in violation of their original suspension or revocation: Add 2 years to the
        original suspension or revocation.
        2.5.3.8. Operators of vehicles apprehended or detained for a second offense of: (1)
        Drunk Driving/Driving While Intoxicated, (2) Refusal, or failure to complete a
        chemical test, or refusal or failure to complete a test to determine the presence of
        alcohol or drugs within the past 5 years: Mandatory 2-year revocation.
     2.5.4. Drivers may have their driving privileges suspended or revoked when involved in
     a serious incident involving a motor vehicle and the 509 MSG/CC determines immediate
     revocation/suspension of driving privileges is required to preserve public safety or the
     good order and discipline of military personnel.
     2.5.5. When an official report or finding determines lack of guilt (not guilty), or when
     charges are dismissed or reduced to an offense not amounting to intoxicated driving, a
 6                                                 WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


        suspension/revocation of driving privileges will be vacated except when: (1) the
        suspension/revocation was based on refusal to take a BAC/BrAC test or tests; (2) a BAC
        or BrAC test revealed the individual was operating a motor vehicle with a BAC/BrAC of
        0.08 percent or higher; (3) the person was driving or in physical control of a motor
        vehicle while under another preliminary suspension or revocation; (4) the state authorities
        made an administrative determination to suspend or revoke driving privileges based on
        local law or pertinent regulations; or (5) the individual failed to complete a formally
        directed substance abuse or driver's training program.
        2.5.6. Operators of motor vehicles in violation of state or local statutes for driving or
        permitting the operation of an uninsured vehicle. Mandatory 1 year revocation.
        2.5.7. Operators of motor vehicles cited for a second offense in violation of not wearing
        proper restraint or safety device within 12 consecutive months. Mandatory suspension
        of 30 days.
        2.5.8. Operators of motor vehicles in violation of para 4.3.19 or para 4.3.20 of this
        instruction will be cited by Security Forces and points will be assessed in accordance
        with (IAW) AFI 31-218 (I).
     2.6. Suspension/Revocation Records. The 509 SFS/DFC will forward revocation,
     suspension and driving records to gaining commanders and initiate appropriate staff actions
     when receiving similar records from losing commanders of inbound personnel. 509
     SFS/S5R will utilize the Security Forces Management Information System (SFMIS) to
     forward all revocation, suspension, and driving records.
     2.7. Administrative Due Process for Suspensions and Revocations. The 509 MSG/CC or
     509 MSG/CD may verbally authorize 509 SFS to issue an immediate preliminary suspension
     of driving privileges, based on reliable evidence for offenses carrying a mandatory
     suspension or revocation.
     2.8. Restricted Driving Privileges or Probation.
        2.8.1. The 509 MSG/CC may authorize partial or restricted driving privileges to those
        whose authority to drive on Whiteman AFB was suspended or revoked by a military
        service authority.
        2.8.2. The 509 MSG/CC may authorize operators whose license has been suspended or
        revoked by the respective state to drive only within areas of exclusive jurisdiction on
        Whiteman AFB. This action will be coordinated through 509 BW/SJA and 509
        SFS/DFC.
        2.8.3. Operators applying for partial or restricted privileges must send a letter of request,
        endorsed by their commander, through 509 SFS/S5R, 509 SFS/DFC, and 509 BW/SJA to
        the 509 MSG/CC.
        2.8.4. When restricted driving privileges are granted the operator must maintain a copy
        of the restricted driving privileges letter signed by the 509 MSG/CC or 509 MSG/CD
        when on G-series orders on their person while operating a vehicle on the installation.
3. Motor Vehicle Registration.
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                                    7


   3.1. Registration Policy: There is no requirement for personnel living, stationed or
   employed on Whiteman AFB to register their Privately Owned Vehicles (POVs) through the
   installation.
   3.2. Registration and Driver Requirements:
      3.2.1. No person shall knowingly operate a vehicle on the installation without valid
      current state registration plate(s), state inspection sticker (if required), and valid proof of
      insurance. Appropriate temporary registration media which is legally displayed or
      appropriately attached to the vehicle is also permissible.
      3.2.2. Every state license plate shall be properly and securely affixed as required by the
      state of issue. License plates will also be affixed in a horizontal position only to the
      vehicle to which it is registered, and must remain clearly legible and un-obscured at all
      times.
      3.2.3. No person shall operate, nor shall an owner of a vehicle knowingly allow to be
      operated, a motor vehicle for which the state registration and/or insurance has been
      canceled, suspended or revoked.
      3.2.4. Vehicles registered in states requiring both front and rear license plates will not be
      operated unless both plates are legally attached. When the state of registration requires
      only one license plate be displayed, display of the following on the unused license plate
      holder is prohibited: (1) a foreign license plate, (2) an overseas military license plate, (3)
      a registration plate of another US state or territory, (4) a license plate that resembles a
      state license plate.
      3.2.5. As an exception, owners of vehicles being returned from overseas bearing military
      plates or foreign plates must reregister with valid state plates within 60 days of sign-in
      and arrival of the vehicle.
      3.2.6. Current vehicle registration papers and valid proof of insurance must be readily
      available and must be presented to Security Force members upon request.
   3.3. Off-Road Vehicles. Privately owned vehicles designed specifically and exclusively for
   off-road use will not be operated anywhere on Whiteman AFB. Examples of off-road
   vehicles include but are not limited to: All Terrain Vehicles (4-wheelers), John Deere Gators,
   Polaris Rangers and Kawasaki Mules. Government agencies may operate off-road vehicles
   on Whiteman AFB as mission dictates. However, 4-wheeler operators must have completed
   driver’s training and possess the appropriate documentation of the training or credentials
   while operating this specific type of off-road vehicle.
4. Installation Traffic Planning and Codes.
   4.1. Traffic Circulation Plan. Members of the TSCG develop installation traffic
   circulation plans. The installation traffic engineer directs, develops, and staffs the base traffic
   circulation plan.
   4.2. Two-Wheel Motor Vehicle Safety Program. As defined in AFI 91-207, The US Air
   Force Traffic Safety Program, all military personnel who operate a motorcycle on a roadway
   any time, on or off-duty and on or off military installations and all Air Force (AF) civilian
   personnel while in a duty status on official business, who operate a motorcycle on a roadway,
   and all operators of a government owned motorcycle, are required to attend and complete an
8                                                WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


    approved motorcycle rider education course for two-wheeled vehicles in accordance with
    AFI 91-207. and is administered by the 509th Bomb Wing Safety (509 BW/SE). AF civilian
    personnel duty status is defined for this training as an AF civilian that has the riding of a
    motorcycle in their position description. Riding a privately owned motorcycle as
    transportation to and from work or lunch isn’t considered in a duty status. Upon successful
    completion of training, all military motorcyclists will be issued a “Motorcycle Rider Course
    Completion Card” which must be carried at all times while operating a motorcycle on the
    installation. Note: The Motorcycle Rider Course Completion Card is also known as the
    Motorcycle Safety Foundation (MSF) Card. Active duty military and AF civilian personnel
    while in a duty status on official business, must have a MSF completion certificate as
    directed in para 4.2.6 below.
       4.2.1. Properly licensed military operators may ride their motorcycles to the training
       location on the day of training. Unit commander will provide documentation verifying
       that member is scheduled for the class.
       4.2.2. The 509th Security Forces Squadron Police Services Section (509 SFS/S3L) will
       publish a monthly schedule outlining when random MSF card checks will be conducted
       by 509 SFS personnel at installation entry gates. During these random checks,
       motorcycle operators will not be refused entry to the installation for not having an MSF
       card. However, their name, grade and unit of assignment will be forwarded to 509
       SFS/S3L no later than the next duty day. 509 SFS/S3L will subsequently forward the
       information to 509 BW/SEG. 509 BW/SEG will notify the individual’s commander of
       the violation.
       4.2.3. For authorized wear garments and personal protective equipment required for
       military and AF civilians on duty status, drivers and passengers, refer to AFI 91-207.
       Note: Failure to wear these personal protective equipment (PPE) items or comply with
       licensing or operator training requirements governed by AFI 91-207 may be considered
       in making line-of-duty determinations if the injury is from such nonuse of PPE or
       noncompliance.
           4.2.3.1. Military and AF civilians on duty status drivers and passengers not wearing
           the required PPE described in AFI 91-207 will be denied entry to the installation.
           Their name, grade and unit of assignment will be forwarded to 509 SFS/S3L no later
           than the next duty day. 509 SFS/S3L will subsequently forward the information to
           509 BW/SEG. 509 BW/SEG will notify the individual’s commander of the violation.
       4.2.4. Drivers will travel with lights on at all times. All two-wheeled motor vehicles will
       be equipped with rear view mirrors. The addition of a high-visibility flag and reflective
       material on helmets is recommended.
       4.2.5. Operation of Motorized Bicycles/Mopeds. A motorized bicycle/moped is any
       two-or three-wheeled device having an automatic transmission and a motor with a
       cylinder capacity of not more than 50 cubic centimeters, which produces less than three
       gross brake horsepower, and is capable of propelling the device at a maximum speed of
       not more than 30 miles per hour on level ground. Motorized bicycle/mopeds that exceed
       any of the three rules are classified as motorcycle. Further more vehicles that don’t fit
       moped or motorcycle definitions are considered recreational motor vehicles and are not
       authorized for operations on Whiteman AFB.
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                                 9


     4.2.6. Motorcycles and mopeds. Active duty military and AF civilian personnel while in
     a duty status on official business as defined in 4.2, must have a MSF completion
     certificate. An MSF completion certificate will be provided after the operator completes
     the motorcycle training as required by AFI 91-207, para 1.2.3.5 for both novice and
     experienced riders. Unqualified active duty military personnel are prohibited from
     operating motorcycles on or off base. Unqualified AF civilians in duty status are
     prohibited from operating motorcycles on base. Military and AF civilians in duty status
     must have a valid MSF course completion card immediately available when operating a
     motorcycle on base. Operators of a government owned, leased or rented off-road
     motorcycle, or an officially classified dirt bike, operating off the street or roadway shall
     complete either the Military Motorcycle Operator Training Program (MILMO) or the
     MSF Dirt Bike School, as applicable. Personnel operating an all terrain vehicle (ATV)
     on an installation must complete a certified ATV rider’s course and maintain the ATV
     Safety Institute Riders Course completion card on their person while operating an ATV.
     Note: Motorcycles will not be loaned to unqualified military or civilian personnel. The
     owner is responsible for ensuring operators possess an MSF course completion card. For
     further guidance on anything not covered in this instruction on the Two-Wheel Motor
     Vehicle Safety Program refer to AFI 91-207, for further guidance.
     4.2.7. Only drivers may ride motorized bicycles/mopeds--no passengers.
  4.3. Rules of the Road.
     4.3.1. Applicability of these provisions. The provisions of this regulation relating to the
     operation of vehicles refer exclusively to operation on Whiteman AFB.
     4.3.2. Required Obedience To Traffic Laws. Unless otherwise declared in this code with
     respect to particular offenses, it is a violation for any person to do any act forbidden or to
     fail to perform any act required in this regulation.
     4.3.3. Obedience To 509 SFS. No person shall willfully fail to comply with a lawful
     order or direction of 509 SFS members while in the performance of duties.
     4.3.4. Authorized Emergency Vehicles. Security Forces, ambulance, fire, crash, alert
     crew vehicles, 509 BW/CC, 509th Bomb Wing Vice Commander, 442d Wing
     Commander, all Group Commander vehicles, 131st Bomb Wing Commander, the
     Supervisor of Flying vehicle,      509th Civil Engineer Squadron Explosive Ordinance
     Disposal (509 CES/CED), 509 BW/SE vehicles, local volunteer firemen and medics, and
     509th Civil Engineer Squadron Readiness mobile command post vehicles should be
     distinctively marked and have operable flashing lights and sirens when feasible. In cases
     where permanent installation of such equipment is not feasible, operators will utilize a
     single portable dash mounted emergency light. Operators should not exceed the posted
     speed limit by more than 10 mph when responding to emergencies. The color of the
     emergency devices will include red, clear, blue and amber.
         4.3.4.1. The exceptions granted to the drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall
         apply only when the driver of such vehicle is using a visual and audible signal. Such
         visual signal will consist of flashing and/or rotating lights of authorized/approved
         color: 509 SFS vehicles will be equipped with blue, red, clear and amber.
         Ambulance, crash, disaster preparedness, 509 CES/CED, and fire vehicles will be
10                                              WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


        equipped with red, clear, and amber. Command vehicles, when feasible, will be
        equipped with red, clear, and amber. If not feasible, a portable dash mounted
        emergency light will be utilized.
        4.3.4.2. The driver of an emergency vehicle will not assume right-of-way based
        solely on the use of emergency equipment (audible or visual signal).
        4.3.4.3. The driver of an emergency vehicle will not exceed posted speed limits or
        disregard traffic control devices when responding to a drill or exercise. Use of
        audible and visual signals is optional in these instances; however, emergency
        equipment should only be used as necessary to complete the mission and be carefully
        controlled by the dispatching agency.
        4.3.4.4. The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an emergency vehicle
        from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons, nor shall it protect
        the driver from the consequences of his/her disregard for the safety of others.
        4.3.4.5. When a motorist observes an emergency vehicle, to include volunteer
        firemen and medics, utilizing emergency lights and/or sirens, he/she will pull their
        vehicle safely to the far right shoulder of the roadway, stop, and wait for the
        emergency vehicle to pass.
     4.3.5. Obedience To Required Traffic Control Devices. The driver of any vehicle shall
     obey the instructions of official traffic control devices placed in accordance with the
     provisions of this regulation, unless otherwise directed by 509 SFS, subject to the
     exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this instruction.
        4.3.5.1. No provisions of this instruction, for which official traffic control devices are
        required, shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
        alleged violation, an official standard device is not in proper position and sufficiently
        visible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
        4.3.5.2. Whenever official traffic control devices and reserved parking markings and
        signs are placed in position, conforming to the requirements of this regulation, such
        devices will be presumed to have been so placed by an official act or direction of
        lawful authority, unless the contrary can be established by evidence.
        4.3.5.3. When pedestrians are using crosswalks, vehicle operators will stop a safe
        distance from the crosswalk and yield the right of way.
        4.3.5.4. The placement of all traffic control devices will be approved in advance by
        the TSCG.
     4.3.6. Driving On The Right Side of The Roadway, Overtaking and Passing Use Of The
     Roadway.
        4.3.6.1. Overtaking A Vehicle On The Left. Passing on the left is prohibited on
        Whiteman AFB except for passing slow-moving vehicles which are impeding the
        flow of traffic. Passing such vehicles may be done only after signaling and having
        the operator of the slow-moving vehicle motion the driver to pass. Vehicles may pass
        provided they can do so in a safe manner with due regard for oncoming traffic. In all
        cases, passing is prohibited on a roadway where the driver's view of oncoming traffic
        is obstructed and/or he/she cannot safely pass.
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                             11


        4.3.6.2. Prohibited Passing. Overtaking and passing is strictly prohibited under the
        following conditions: Passing a moving vehicle in a parking lot; passing moving
        vehicles marked "EXPLOSIVES" or convoy transporting explosives; passing
        formations of marching personnel which are proceeding in the same direction, unless
        signaled to do so by the person in charge of the formation (when passing troop
        formations in either direction, drivers will not exceed five miles per hour); passing
        when approaching within 100 feet of an intersection or passing any school bus from
        either direction while loading or unloading passengers or when flashing warning
        lights are activated.
        4.3.6.3. One-Way Roadways. The TSCG may designate any roadway, part of a
        roadway or specific lanes upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction
        at all times as one way. Such roadways shall be indicated by official traffic control
        devices.
        4.3.6.4. Driving On Roadways Lined For Traffic. Whenever any roadway has been
        divided into two or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, vehicles shall be driven
        entirely within a single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver
        has first ascertained that such movement can be made safely. Official traffic control
        devices may be erected directing specified traffic to use a designated lane or
        designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular direction,
        regardless of the center of the roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
        direction of every such device.
        4.3.6.5. U-Turns Prohibited. Negotiating U-turns is prohibited on all roadways
        unless directed to do so by 509 SFS.
        4.3.6.6. Operation of Motor Vehicles. No driver shall operate a motor vehicle on
        any surface (paved or unpaved) unless the surface is specifically designated as a
        street, access road, parking area or designated off-road vehicle track unless mission
        requirements dictate otherwise.
     4.3.7. Flight Line Driving. No person shall drive a motor vehicle onto the flight line
     unless all requirements established in WAFBI 13-213, Flight Line Driving, are satisfied.
     4.3.8. Operation Of Golf Carts On Roadways. Privately owned golf carts may only be
     operated on the roadways when going directly to and from base quarters to the golf
     course. Government golf carts may be operated on the roadways during special events,
     i.e., base open house and for mission-related activities. Such carts will be driven by the
     most direct route and on the extreme right of the roadway. Drivers will obey all traffic
     laws. Organizational golf carts will be limited to official business only on roadways.
     These vehicles will comply with guidance contained in AFI 91-207.
     4.3.9. Pedestrian’s Obedience To Traffic Control Devices And Traffic Laws.
        4.3.9.1. A pedestrian shall obey the instructions of any traffic control device
        specifically applicable to pedestrians, unless otherwise directed by a 509 SFS
        member.
        4.3.9.2. At all other places, pedestrians shall be subject to the restrictions stated in
        this chapter.
12                                              WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


        4.3.9.3. No pedestrian shall suddenly leave the curb or other place of safety and walk
        or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to
        yield.
        4.3.9.4. Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk, or at any unmarked
        crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross a roadway, the driver of
        any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not overtake and pass such stopped
        vehicle.
        4.3.9.5. Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a marked
        crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the right of
        way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
        4.3.9.6. Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are
        operational, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in marked crosswalks.
        4.3.9.7. No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
        authorized by traffic control devices; and when authorized, pedestrians shall cross
        only in accordance with the official traffic control device pertaining to such crosswalk
        movements.
        4.3.9.8. Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
        walk or jog along or upon an adjacent roadway. Where sidewalks are not provided,
        any pedestrian walking or jogging along and upon the roadway shall, when
        practicable, do so only on the left side of the road, at its shoulder, facing traffic.
        4.3.9.9. No person shall stand in the roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride. No
        person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business or
        contributions from the occupants of any vehicle.
        4.3.9.10. The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley, building, private
        road, driveway or parking lot shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian
        approaching on any sidewalk extending across such entrance/exit.
        4.3.9.11. Except when otherwise directed during authorized meets and sporting
        events, joggers and runners will comply with all rules pertaining to other pedestrians
        upon roadways.
        4.3.9.12. Joggers will wear light colored/reflective clothing during hours of darkness.
        4.3.9.13. The wearing of headsets while jogging or running, except on designated
        tracks/trails, is prohibited.
     4.3.10. Speed Regulations.
        4.3.10.1. No person shall operate a vehicle at speeds greater than are reasonable and
        prudent under existing conditions and having due regard for the actual and potential
        hazards which exist. In every event, speed shall be controlled as may be necessary to
        avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other conveyance entering the street.
        Where no special hazards exist requiring lower speeds, no vehicle shall exceed the
        below listed speed limits:
            4.3.10.1.1. At 30 miles per hour within the base confines, unless otherwise
            posted.
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                              13


            4.3.10.1.2. At 15 miles per hour within base housing areas; five miles per hour
            when children are present.
                4.3.10.1.2.1. “Children present” is designated when a child under the age of
                10 is at the roadside or playing in the front of a house, leading directly to the
                roadway or any area designated with a sign that indicates five miles per hour
                when children are present.
                4.3.10.1.2.2. The presence of a child presents a hazard warranting a reduction
                in speed even if the child is supervised.
            4.3.10.1.3. At 15 miles per hour on the flight line and within the Weapons
            Storage Area; 5 miles per hour within 50 feet of aircraft.
            4.3.10.1.4. Five miles per hour in parking lots.
            4.3.10.1.5. Five miles per hour when passing troop formations in either direction.
        4.3.10.2. No person shall within the confines of Whiteman AFB, drive a vehicle or
        participate in any race, speed competition, drag or acceleration contest, test of
        physical endurance, exhibition of speed or acceleration; except as an authorized
        participant in a sponsored, sanctioned event approved by the 509 MSG/CC.
        4.3.10.3. No person shall within the confines of Whiteman AFB, drive a vehicle in a
        manner in which an exhibition of speed or acceleration causes the vehicle to break
        traction.
     4.3.11. Driver’s Responsibilities In Accidents.
        4.3.11.1. Accidents Involving Persons Or Attended Vehicles. The driver of any
        vehicle involved in an accident resulting in the injury or death of any person, or in
        damage to a vehicle which is driven or attended by another person, will immediately
        stop at the scene of the accident or as close as possible, and remain at the scene until
        fulfilling the requirements of this chapter. Every such stop shall be made safely and
        without obstructing traffic more than necessary.
        4.3.11.2. Duty To Get Information and To Render Aid. The driver of a vehicle
        involved in an accident resulting in the injury or death of any person, or damage to a
        vehicle which is driven or attended by another person shall give his/her name, rank,
        address, base decal number, driver's license number and the registration number of
        the vehicle being driven to the person struck or the driver or occupant of the vehicle
        with which it collided, and shall render assistance to any person injured in the
        accident as is appropriate to the situation and the level of training of the individual.
        4.3.11.3. Duty To Report An Accident. The driver of a vehicle involved in an
        accident resulting in the injury or death of any person, damage to any vehicle or
        property will, if physically and mentally capable, immediately report such accident to
        the PSD. When the driver of such vehicle is physically incapable of giving an
        immediate report as required and there is another occupant in the vehicle capable of
        doing so, such person will make or cause to be made a report of the accident.
        4.3.11.4. Duty Upon Striking An Unattended Vehicle. The driver of a vehicle which
        collides with an unattended vehicle will immediately stop and either locate or notify
14                                              WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


        the operator or owner of the vehicle, or shall leave in a conspicuous place on the
        vehicle a written notice identifying themselves, address, telephone number, and a
        description of the circumstances surrounding the accident. In all cases, the accident
        must also be reported to the PSD.
        4.3.11.5. Moving Vehicle From Scene Prohibited. A vehicle involved in a major
        accident will not be moved without permission by 509 SFS. If the vehicles are
        interfering with the orderly flow of traffic, the vehicles may be moved only far
        enough to allow the passage of vehicles. This does not include POVs which may be
        driven from the scene of minor accidents.
        4.3.11.6. Reporting Vehicle Accidents. Drivers involved in on-base minor vehicle
        accidents not requiring an investigation in accordance with AFI 31-218(I): Property
        damage less than $2,000, Government Owned Vehicle (GOV) or POV damage less
        than $10,000; damage not disabling; no injury or death, are required to report the
        accident to the 509 SFS within 24 hours or as soon as possible.”
     4.3.12. Stopping or Parking In Prohibited Places. No person shall stop, park a vehicle
     off the paved areas on any seeded or unimproved area anywhere on the installation,
     except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
     direction of the 509 SFS or traffic control devices.
        4.3.12.1. Parking of vehicles on roadways and streets within the housing areas is
        permitted except when posted otherwise. Parking on roadways is prohibited except in
        base housing.
        4.3.12.2. No person shall stop or park a vehicle facing the flow of traffic.
        4.3.12.3. Vehicles parked in parking lots shall be parked within the lines painted for
        that purpose. Vehicles will not be parked on the edge of a parking lot or driveway
        leading to a parking lot unless the area is specifically lined for parking. Vehicles will
        be parked in areas designated for that type of vehicle.
        4.3.12.4. Vehicles parked at an angle within a parking lot and/or on the roadway will
        not be parked facing the flow of traffic. It is prohibited to back into an angled
        parking slot, or pull through such that egress causes the vehicle to go against the flow
        of traffic.
        4.3.12.5. No person shall park overtime in an area displaying timed parking signs.
        4.3.12.6. When parked in a driveway, no vehicle will block any portion of a
        sidewalk.
        4.3.12.7. Recreational and special purpose vehicles to include race/stock cars, will
        not be parked on any street (vans are not included), unless the vehicle is attached to a
        towing vehicle. These vehicles may only be parked in either the quarters' driveway or
        the base recreational vehicle storage lot.
        4.3.12.8. Vehicles stopped or parked on a roadway where there is an adjacent curb
        shall not be farther than 12 inches from the curb. Once parked, the vehicle will be
        parallel to the curb and not will not impede the flow of traffic.
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                             15


        4.3.12.9. Private trailers will not be parked in the cantonment area parking lots unless
        authorized by 509 SFS, except for the purpose of loading or unloading equipment.
        4.3.12.10. Vehicles will not be parked on seeded areas. Unit commanders and staff
        agency chiefs may authorize parking on seeded areas adjacent to the parking lots for
        which they are responsible, when the ground is frozen. This will only be
        accomplished to temporarily clear parking lots for snow removal in the cantonment
        areas, adjacent to work centers and public use facilities. The designation and duration
        of these alternate parking areas will be coordinated with 509 SFS/S3L.
        4.3.12.11. For the purpose of snow removal from the dormitory parking lots,
        personnel who will be out of the area (leave, temporary duty (TDY), etc.) for more
        than 3 days will leave vehicle keys with their First Sergeants or another responsible
        person, or park the vehicle in an area that will not be affected by snow removal.
        4.3.12.12. Vehicles interfering with snow removal operations may be cited or
        removed by civilian towing service at the owner's expense, after approval by the 509
        MSG/CC.
        4.3.12.13. No vehicle will be parked closer than 15 feet in any direction to a fire
        hydrant.
        4.3.12.14. No vehicle will be parked at any building, in front of overhead doors or in
        any other area which would block or delay fire equipment.
        4.3.12.15. Except for designed parking areas, no vehicle will be parked closer than
        25 feet to any building or on any sidewalk leading to a building, except for the
        purpose of loading or unloading cargo.
        4.3.12.16. Fuel servicing vehicles must be parked at least 25 feet apart to provide
        access for fire control purposes. Fuel servicing vehicles will not be parked within
        100 feet of any structure or aircraft, except for refueling purposes.
        4.3.12.17. Parking is prohibited within 25 feet of any roadway intersection.
        4.3.12.18. Vehicles will not park in reserved slots unless authorized.
        4.3.12.19. Parking is prohibited within any area designated as a crosswalk.
        4.3.12.20. Emergency breaks will be utilized on vehicles with standard
        transmissions.
     4.3.13. Parking Unregistered Vehicles. Vehicles that cannot be state registered for any
     reason may be stored in the recreational vehicle (RV) storage area located on 2nd street
     behind building 124. The government will not be liable for any acts of vandalism, theft,
     or acts of nature to the vehicle while it is in such storage. Vehicle owners must pay
     Morale, Welfare, Recreation (MWR) parking fees and meet the parking registration
     requirements specified below:
        4.3.13.1. Persons who occupy base housing may park their unregistered vehicles in
        their respective driveways off the street. Vehicles will not present an unsightly
        appearance, i.e., flat tires, on blocks, missing fenders, doors, windows or major
        components. It is the responsibility of the base housing office to enforce this
        provision.
16                                              WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


        4.3.13.2. Owners who do not wish to park unregistered vehicles in the RV storage lot
        or at their base quarters (when authorized) must remove such vehicles from the base.
        4.3.13.3. The base parking lot just outside and adjacent to the Arnold gate is
        designated as the location for those individuals whose on-base driving privileges have
        been suspended or revoked. To park at that location, a parking permit is required and
        must be obtained at the PSD.
     4.3.14. Vehicle Equipment. Any person operating a POV on Whiteman AFB must
     comply with all provisions of motor vehicle inspection regulations of the state the vehicle
     is registered in. Vehicles not in compliance with the code and the provisions of this
     regulation may be denied entry onto the installation by the Installation Entry Controller.
     4.3.15. Vehicle Safety. The term safety belts, as used herein, includes both lap belts and
     shoulder harnesses or the combination of these two; child safety seats; and other
     restraints. Safety restraints installed by the manufacturer must be kept serviceable. When
     installed, all belts and restraints must be used. All such safety belts must be of a type and
     installed in a manner approved by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards. Vehicles of
     model years 1965 or newer must have installed occupant restraints. Commanders may
     exempt vehicles registered with a state or nation as a classic.
        4.3.15.1. No driver will operate a vehicle when the windshield or windows have ice,
        snow, dirt or damage that obstruct their view or cause a safety hazard.
        4.3.15.2. Any person operating a vehicle specifically designed without a windshield
        will wear safety glasses or goggles at all times.
        4.3.15.3. All vehicle tires must be of pneumatic design. The tread remaining on the
        tires must be at least 1/16 of an inch.
     4.3.16. Defective Vehicle Citations. Anyone operating a vehicle which does not comply
     with the requirements of this chapter may be cited via DD Form 1408, Armed Forces
     Traffic Ticket for operating a defective vehicle. Anyone cited will be given 72 hours to
     correct the defect and report to the PSD to have the correction inspected. Citations issued
     to military members who fail to comply will be processed in accordance with AFI 31-
     218(I) and forwarded to the violator’s First Sergeant or commander for action.
        4.3.16.1. Vehicles being cited as defective, which are obviously unsafe to operate,
        (example: Inoperative headlights or taillights, jagged metal or other protrusions, etc.)
        which create an unreasonable risk of injury to other traffic, pedestrians or property,
        will not be operated on base until such time the defects are corrected.
        4.3.16.2. In all cases, the 509 SFS person issuing the citation will indicate on the
        offender's copy the actions required of the offender.
     4.3.17. Miscellaneous Rules.
        4.3.17.1. Limitations On Backing. The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle
        unless such movement can be made safely without interfering with other traffic,
        parked vehicles, buildings, and/or other fixtures. When backing, the operator must
        yield to all other traffic before proceeding.
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                            17


       4.3.17.2. Overcrowded Or Overloaded Vehicles. No person shall drive a vehicle
       when it is overloaded, when the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle
       is obstructed, when it interferes with the control of the vehicle, or does not have
       seatbelts. No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in any position which obstructs the
       driver's view or interferes with the control of the vehicle. No driver shall allow any
       person to ride on the side rails or cling to the side of any vehicle except on a
       permanently installed passenger seat (excludes fire apparatus).
       4.3.17.3. Reckless Driving/Careless And Imprudent Operation. No person shall
       operate a motor vehicle in a willful or wanton manner to endanger one's self, others
       or property. Reckless driving may be the combination of traffic violations or
       omission of acts that may cause serious injury, death or property damage. Careless
       and imprudent driving is considered a lesser degree of reckless driving but more than
       the mere violation of one driving law.
       4.3.17.4. Vehicle Maintenance. Major maintenance, such as an engine overhaul is
       prohibited in the housing area and dormitory parking lots. This does not preclude
       emergency repairs, such as changing a flat tire. Owners of vehicles left inoperative in
       any location other than a designated parking area shall immediately notify 509 SFS
       and will arrange to have the vehicle removed as soon as possible. Abandoned
       vehicles will be removed at the owner's expense.
       4.3.17.5. Night Driving. Headlights shall be used no later than one-half hour after
       official sunset and may be extinguished no earlier than one-half hour prior to official
       sunrise.
          4.3.17.5.1. Parking/clearance or auxiliary lights shall not be used in lieu of
          headlights, except when approaching the installation gates.
          4.3.17.5.2. Headlights shall be used during periods of reduced visibility (rain,
          fog, smoke, etc.).
          4.3.17.5.3. Upon approaching an oncoming vehicle at night, an operator will dim
          high beams or auxiliary lights in sufficient time to prevent interference with the
          vision or vehicle control of the approaching driver.
          4.3.17.5.4. Drivers approaching the base gates from off base will, if the vehicle
          has the capability, turn off headlights within 50 feet of the entry control point,
          leaving parking lights on. After passing the entry control point, drivers will ensure
          their headlights are back on.
       4.3.17.6. Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited. The driver of a vehicle, other than on
       official business, shall not follow any responding fire department apparatus closer
       than 200 feet, or drive into or park a vehicle within a 300-foot radius where fire
       apparatus has stopped in response to fire alarm.
       4.3.17.7. Crossing Fire Hose. No vehicle shall be driven over an unprotected fire
       hose laid down on a street or driveway unless directed by fire department or 509 SFS
       personnel.
18                                              WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


        4.3.17.8. Stop When Traffic Obstructed. No driver shall enter an intersection or
        marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side to accommodate
        the vehicle without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians.
        4.3.17.9. Base Perimeter Road. Traffic on the base perimeter road (south end of the
        runway) will be limited to government vehicles and authorized private vehicles on
        official business.
        4.3.17.10. Minor Children. Children under the age of 10 years will not be left
        unattended in any vehicle.
        4.3.17.11. Fleeing or Attempting To Elude Security Forces. It is unlawful for the
        driver of a motor vehicle to willfully fail to bring his/her vehicle to a stop or to
        otherwise flee or attempt to elude a pursuing Security Forces vehicle which is
        displaying visual and/or audible emergency signals.
     4.3.18. Vehicle operators on Whiteman AFB and operators of government owned
     vehicles, both on and off the installation, will not use cell phones unless the vehicle is
     safely parked or unless they are using a hands-free device. In addition, the wearing and
     use of other portable headphones, earphones or other listening devices is prohibited while
     operating a motor vehicle. Exceptions: Hearing protection as required by AFI 91-203,
     (Air Force Consoliated Occupational Safety Instruction) standards for operating certain
     types of heavy equipment and hands-free devices for cell phones.
     4.3.19. Use of Seatbelts. All drivers and passengers of vehicles equipped with seatbelts
     will wear restraints while the vehicle is in motion. The vehicle driver is responsible for
     informing passengers of this requirement. The driver is responsible for making sure this
     requirement is observed. Seatbelts must be worn IAW manufacture guidance.
     4.3.20. Use of Child Restraints. The use of child restraints is mandatory. Children less
     than 4 years old or less than 40 pounds must be in an appropriate child safety seat.
     Children ages 4 through 7 who weigh at least 40 pounds must be in an appropriate child
     safety seat or booster seat unless they are 80 pounds or heaver or are 4 feet 9 inches tall
     or taller. Children 8 and over or weighing at least 80 pounds or at least 4 feet 9 inches
     tall are required to be secured by a safety belt or buckled into an appropriate booster seat.
     4.3.21. Alcohol/Drug Use. No open alcoholic beverage shall be readily accessible to any
     occupant of a motor vehicle regardless of whether or not the vehicle is in motion.
        4.3.21.1. It is unlawful for anyone to operate a motor vehicle while under the
        influence of or while intoxicated by alcohol, drugs or any combination of alcohol or
        drugs. The difference between "under the influence" and "driving while intoxicated,"
        is defined in AFI 31-218(I).
        4.3.21.2. The percentage of alcohol in a person's blood which constitutes intoxication
        is 0.08, corresponding to the level established by the State of Missouri. Note:
        Individuals operating commercial vehicles with a class C thru A license the
        percentage of alcohol in a person's blood which constitutes intoxication is 0.04,
        corresponding to the level established by the State of Missouri.
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                            19


        4.3.21.3. The type of chemical tests used to determine a person's BAC may be either
        breath, blood, or urine. 509 SFS will use breath testing as the primary method of
        testing on Whiteman AFB.
        4.3.21.4. Circumstances where blood tests may be required include vehicle accidents
        where the driver and/or occupants of either vehicle are incapable of providing a
        breath sample (fatalities/unconscious/injuries).
     4.3.22. Radar Detectors. The use of radar detectors is prohibited while driving on
     Whiteman AFB. The mere possession of a radar detector is not an offense.
     4.3.23. Vehicle Clearance. No person shall place a vehicle in motion unless the vehicle
     can be moved safely with due regard to objects above and around the vehicle. The
     operator shall only move the vehicle in a manner which ensures proper clearance in all
     directions.
     4.3.24. Loud Music. Loud music which detracts from a driver’s ability to safely operate
     a motor vehicle is prohibited. Loud music which distracts other drivers is likewise
     prohibited. Music must not be heard from outside the vehicle in excess of 25 feet.
     Patrolman must use discretion in enforcement.
     4.3.25. Leaving Keys in Ignition. Keys will not be left in the ignition of an unattended
     vehicle Exception: Flight line area.
     4.3.26. Leaving A Vehicle Running. Vehicles equipped with automatic car starters may
     be left unattended with the engine running on the installation for a short period of time
     not to exceed 10 minutes. Vehicles will not be left running with the keys left in the
     ignition.
     4.3.27. Failure to Signal driver's intention. No person shall turn from a road suddenly or
     abruptly. All persons operating a POV/GOV will signal their intentions within 100 ft of
     the desired turn.
     4.3.28. Operation of Bicycle and Play Vehicles. This regulation is applicable whenever
     a bicycle or play vehicle is operated on any roadway or path not set aside for the
     exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exemptions herein stated.
        4.3.28.1. Every person riding a bicycle upon any roadway shall be granted all the
        rights and be subject to all the rules applicable to the driver of a vehicle, excluding
        those provisions that by their nature, have no application.
        4.3.28.2. Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to the
        right of the roadway as possible, exercising due care when passing a stopping vehicle
        or proceeding in the same direction.
            4.3.28.2.1. Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall ride in single file unless
            no motor vehicle traffic is present.
            4.3.28.2.2. The only roadways authorized for the riding of roller skates, coasters,
            sleds, skateboards and other toy vehicles are those in the housing areas. Riding
            roller skates, coasters, sleds, skateboards and other toy vehicles is prohibited on
            all other roadways. Persons may only ride these vehicles on sidewalks and
            parking lots when it does not interfere with pedestrian traffic or cause a safety
20                                             WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


            hazard. Persons riding such toy vehicles must yield right-of-way to pedestrians.
            Where these types of vehicles are authorized, they will be accorded the same
            privileges of right-of-way as pedestrians by bicyclists and motor vehicle traffic.
            Roller skaters and skateboarders will yield to all motor vehicles.
        4.3.28.3. Bicycles operated during hours of darkness will be equipped with white
        light on the front visible from 500 ft and a red light or reflector visible 600 ft to the
        rear. Bicycle operators must wear a helmet meeting Consumer Products Safety
        Commission (CPSC) guidelines; persons riding roller skates, coasters, sleds,
        skateboards and other toy vehicles must wear a helmet meeting either CPSC
        guidelines or a Multisport helmet meeting N94 SNELL standards while on the
        installation. EXCEPTION: Flight line, “no-hat” areas where Foreign Object Damage
        (FOD) is a concern.
        4.3.28.4. The wearing of a headset while operating a bicycle, roller skates, coasters,
        sleds or skateboards on a street, roadway, parking lot, or sidewalk is prohibited.
  4.4. Personnel Parking Program.
     4.4.1. Parking Warden Program. Each organization responsible for the real property
     management of a facility will appoint a parking warden. A letter appointing a primary
     and alternate parking warden will be signed by the organization commander and
     forwarded to the 509 SFS/S3L.
        4.4.1.1. Parking wardens will act as requesters for all matters brought to the TSCG
        concerning parking lots under their control and be authorized to issue DD Forms
        1408 to violators who have parked improperly IAW this instruction. The 509
        SFS/S3L will supply the forms and provide training and guidance on the proper use
        of DD Form 1408.
        4.4.1.2. Parking wardens will also maintain a current and updated diagram of the
        parking lot(s) under their control which show the size, location and configuration of
        the parking lot(s), to include statistics of the number and types of reserved parking
        spaces in place. A copy of these diagrams must be provided to 509 SFS/S3L.
        4.4.1.3. Each base facility is responsible for their reserved parking. Where more than
        one organization is located in a particular facility, the commander of the organization
        responsible for real property management will be responsible for the appointment of
        the parking warden and monitoring of reserved parking spaces for that facility.
        4.4.1.4. Authorized reserve parking will be limited to 10 percent visitor/customer, 5
        percent executive, 5 percent GOV (not including emergency response vehicles), 5
        percent carpool, 1 percent motorcycle and 1 percent bicycle.
        4.4.1.5. Parking spaces for the handicapped will be allotted as outlined in the
        Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards and will be located as close as is possible to
        the nearest accessible entrance.
        4.4.1.6. GOV parking spaces are reserved for government owned or leased vehicles
        and are not to be used by privately owned vehicles.
        4.4.1.7. Visitor/customer parking spaces are reserved for the parking of POVs/GOVs
        by individuals visiting a government office or service type facility.
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                            21


         4.4.1.8. Each squadron or comparable organization will be authorized executive
         reserved parking spaces for the commander, and other selected key unit staff
         members designated by the unit commander. Space designations will be marked by
         office symbol only. Executive parking spaces will not exceed 5 percent of available
         spaces in the parking lot(s) immediately adjacent to the work center.
         4.4.1.9. 509 SFS will approve, issue, control and review all reserved parking plans
         before being implemented.
     4.4.2. Procedures for Application of Reserved Parking. The parking warden responsible
     for the parking lot will submit the request along with a diagram of the lot, current
     statistics on the number and type of spaces and the AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer
     Work Request to 509 SFS/S3L. The 509 SFS/DFC will review the request and
     recommend approval/disapproval to the TSCG for final action. If the TSCG approves the
     request, the chairperson of the TSCG will initial the AF Form 332 and forward it to the
     509th Civil Engineer Squadron (509 CES) for painting.
     4.4.3. Reserved Parking Signs. Reserved parking spaces must be clearly identified by
     signs and/or pavement markings so that personnel can readily locate the reserved stalls
     and to prevent motorists from misusing these spaces. Signs must be in compliance with
     guidance UFC 3-120-01, Sign Standards.
         4.4.3.1. Handicapped parking space designations must include the International
         Symbol of Accessibility. Motorists requiring a temporary handicap parking sticker
         must coordinate through the 509 SFS/S3L.
         4.4.3.2. GOV parking spaces may be labeled according to the specific type of vehicle
         that will occupy the space. EXAMPLE: GOV/LE SEDAN; GOV/AMBULANCE;
         GOV/MOBILE COMMAND POST; or they maybe generic and simply titled GOV.
         4.4.3.3. Executive parking spaces will be designated by duty position. EXAMPLE:
         509 SFS/DFC or 509 CES/CC.
  4.5. Traffic Administration. The 509 SFS/S3L and 509th Security Forces Squadron
  Operations Flight (509 SFS/S3) are under the control of the 509th Security Forces Squadron
  Commander (509 SFS/DFC), Whiteman AFB, Missouri, who is the Installation Defense
  Force Commander (509 SFS/DFC).
     4.5.1. Duty of Security Forces Pertaining to Traffic Control. The 509 SFS/S3 is
     responsible for enforcing installation traffic laws on Whiteman AFB, i.e., issuing
     citations, making apprehensions for traffic violations when warranted, and investigating
     traffic accidents. 509 SFS/S3L is responsible for cooperating or coordinating with the
     TSCG on the administration of the traffic conditions and for carrying out those duties
     specifically imposed upon 509 SFS by this instruction.
     4.5.2. Record Of Traffic Violations. The 509th Security Forces Squadron Reports and
     Analysis Section (509 SFS/S5R) will keep records of all traffic violations on Whiteman
     AFB. These records will reflect the charges and record the final dispositions of all such
     alleged offenses as contained in AFI 31-218(I). 509 SFS/S5R will also maintain records
     of all traffic offenses committed off base when notified by the issuing agency or when the
     person receiving a citation makes the information available.
22                                             WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


        4.5.2.1. 509 SFS/S5R will publish current listings identifying those individuals
        whose on-base driving privileges have been suspended or revoked. Copies will be
        provided to the 509 SFS/S3L for posting on the PSD, Visitor Control Center and at
        each installation entry point. Additionally, a copy will be sent to the 509 BW/CC,
        509 MSG/CD, 509 BW/SJA, 509th Logistics Readiness Squadron Deployment
        Distribution Office (509 LRS/LGRDDO), 509th Operations Squadron Airfield
        Flight/Airfield Operations (509 OSS/OSAA) and 509th Contracting Squadron
        Commander (509 CONS/CC).
        4.5.2.2. All military members and civilians cited via DD Form 1408 will be entered
        into SFMIS. 509 SFS/S5R will complete the administrative process for DD Form
        1408’s prior to them being entered into SFMIS. 509 SFS/S5R will notify the
        members First Sergeant or commander via email of a traffic violation that has been
        issued regardless if the member wishes to rebut the violation or not. This process will
        be standardized and provide accountability. For moving violations, if an individual
        accumulates 12 points within a 12-month period or 18 points within a 24-month
        period, their installation driving privileges may be suspended or revoked.
        4.5.2.3. Civilians cited via CVB Form 1805, will also be entered into SFMIS. All
        tickets are mailed to the Central Violations Bureau (CVB) who prepares a docket for
        the Magistrate’s Court. After the Magistrate’s action, the action taken is entered into
        SFMIS. NOTE: Violations for CVB Form 1805 citations can be found on
        Attachment 2.
            4.5.2.3.1. Civilians will be issued 1408’s for all traffic infractions that DO NOT
            involve a mandatory court appearance.
        4.5.2.4. The 509 SFS/DFC will ensure Security Force members authorized to issue
        DD Form 1408 or CVB Form 1805s are trained and receive task certification on
        procedures by supervisory personnel prior to issuing either form. Training will be
        documented in the Career Field Education and Training Plan.
     4.5.3. DD Form 1408 Traffic Citation Rebuttal. In the event an individual does not agree
     with a citation they received, they must notify 509 SFS/S5R within five duty days (M-F)
     of request to rebut the citation. The violator has 14 days from receipt of the citation to
     submit the formal rebuttal. All rebuttals for military members will be sent through their
     respective First Sergeant to 509 SFS/S5R stating the circumstances surrounding the
     citation and the reason they believe the citation should be voided. The rebuttals must also
     be endorsed by their respective commander. All rebuttals for civilian personnel will be
     sent directly to 509 SFS/S5R with no endorsement required. All rebuttals will then be
     forwarded through 509 SFS/S3L to the 509 SFS/DFC, for review and consideration. If
     the citation is not voided, the rebuttal will be forwarded to the 509 MSG/CC for final
     review and adjudication. If an individual does not rebut, 509 SFS/S5R will complete the
     administrative process by writing on the back of the white copy “did not rebut” and
     endorse the infractions on the DD Form 1408.
        4.5.3.1. CVB Form 1805 District Court Violation Notice Rebuttal. In the event an
        individual does not agree with a citation they received, they will be presented with the
        opportunity to rebut a ticket through the Magistrate Court System on a date scheduled
        by the Central Violations Bureau.           The violator may also call the Legal
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                             23


        Office/Magistrate for additional information on the status of their ticket. The 509
        BW/SJA and 509 SFS/S5R representatives, along with the court clerk, will take into
        account all information presented by the violator and determine if the ticket merits
        dismissal. The 509 BW/SJA attorney has the final word on dismissals. 509 SFS/S5R
        personnel serve primarily in an advisory and administrative capacity.
        4.5.3.2. If the violator still wishes to rebut the CVB Form 1805 and wishes a hearing
        with a federal magistrate, 509 SFS/S5R will obtain a court schedule through 509
        BW/SJA and notify the issuing 509 SFS member of their scheduled appearance or
        obtain a written statement from the patrolman and provide it to the 509 BW/SJA. The
        federal magistrate will make the final determination of guilt or innocence.
     4.5.4. Accident Investigation. 509 SFS is required to investigate traffic accidents (as
     outlined in AFI 31-218(I)), to apprehend (when appropriate) and to assist in the
     prosecution of those persons charged with traffic violations causing or contributing to
     such accidents. On-base traffic accident investigations will be conducted by Security
     Forces personnel. Safety personnel may complete additional on-base traffic accident
     investigations involving military personnel or government motor vehicles IAW AFI 91-
     204, Safety Investigations and Reports. The alert photographer will be called to
     photograph major traffic accident investigations by 509 SFS.
        4.5.4.1. The investigative status for all major vehicle accidents occurring on base will
        be determined by on-scene Security Forces members. Major vehicle accidents are
        those meeting any of the following criteria:
            4.5.4.1.1. All vehicle accidents involving any injury or fatality. The 509th
            Medical Group (509 MDG) will immediately notify 509 SFS upon death of any
            person involved in a motor vehicle accident. Subject to military jurisdiction,
            medical authorities will examine anyone killed in an on-base motor vehicle
            accident or mishap; conduct tests for the presence and concentration of alcohol or
            other drugs in the blood, bodily fluids or tissues as soon as possible and where
            practical within 8 hours of death.
            4.5.4.1.2. All vehicle accidents where government and/or privately owned
            vehicles have sustained $10,000 or more in damage. Dollar cost estimates of
            damage will be provided by base transportation personnel for government
            vehicles and by the owner/operator for private vehicles.
            4.5.4.1.3. All vehicle accidents involving private or government property
            damages exceeding $2,000. Dollar cost estimates of damage will be provided by
            base civil engineer personnel for government property and by the owner for
            private property.
            4.5.4.1.4. All vehicle accidents when vehicle damage is to the extent the vehicle
            involved cannot be driven under its own power in its customary manner without
            further damage or hazard to the vehicle or to other traffic elements on the
            roadway. Expedient repairs, such as changing a flat tire or pulling a fender away
            from a tire does not change the status of such accidents from being categorized as
            “major.”
            4.5.4.1.5. All vehicle accidents which are hard to explain (no correlation between
 24                                               WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


              the damage and the accident chain of events, suspected arson, fraudulent
              insurance claim anticipated, etc).
              4.5.4.1.6. All vehicle accidents in which the vehicle owner or driver is charged
              with a criminal offense such as driving while intoxicated, reckless driving or
              fleeing the scene.
          4.5.4.2. 509 SFS will go to the scene of all on-base vehicle accidents. 509 SFS will
          go to the scene of all off-base major accidents involving government vehicles
          occurring within 25 miles of the base proper. Accidents occurring beyond 25 miles
          of the base proper will be investigated by 509 SFS only when authorized by the 509
          SFS/DFC. Safety personnel may complete additional on and off base traffic accident
          investigations involving military personnel or government motor vehicles IAW AFI
          91-204. If trained personnel are not available to respond to all accidents, such as
          many accidents occurring simultaneously because of icy roads, the seriousness of the
          accident is used to determine priority of response.
      4.5.5. . Accident Notifications. 509 SFS will, as a minimum, notify the following
      Whiteman AFB agencies of all major motor vehicle accidents:
          4.5.5.1. 509 BW/CP.
          4.5.5.2. 509 BW/SE.
          4.5.5.3. 509 SFS/DFC.
          4.5.5.4. Unit commander and/or First Sergeant of personnel involved
          4.5.5.5. Fire Department.
          4.5.5.6. 509 MDG.
          4.5.5.7. Alert Photographer.
      4.5.6. Traffic Accident Reports. 509 SFS/S5R maintains a file of all accident reports,
      including the report of action taken on violations. SFMIS is used to record violations and
      points assessed. With the exception of requests filed under the Freedom of Information
      Act, the following agencies/personnel are cleared to receive accident and incident data
      from 509 SFS/S5R:
          4.5.6.1. Unit commanders and First Sergeants.
          4.5.6.2. Military and civilian police agencies (request by letter).
          4.5.6.3. Individuals involved in the accident/incident may request data that only
          involves themselves.
          4.5.6.4. 509 BW/SE.
5. Driving Records and the Traffic Point System.
   5.1. Points Assessed to Traffic Violations. Point assessment for moving violations will be
   IAW AFI 31-218(I), table 5-2. In addition, the following local assessments will be levied for
   the indicated violation:
      5.1.1. Failure to wear an approved helmet while riding on a moving bicycle or play
      vehicle as required. Assessment: 1.
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                             25


      5.1.2. Open container of alcohol in a moving vehicle. Assessment: 3.
      5.1.3. All CVB Form 1805’s issued for traffic violations which are upheld in Magistrate
      Court will result in point assessment against the violator’s base driving record. When
      applicable, 509 SFS/S5R will notify the violator’s commander, First Sergeant, or
      supervisor of the infraction.
      5.1.4. Once the original (white) copy of the DD Form 1408 has been through the
      administrative process and any points assessed if applicable, 509 SFS/S5R will endorse
      the infraction and enter the information into SFMIS.
   5.2. Disposition of Driving Records. SFMIS is locally updated and can be accessed at all
   USAF locations worldwide. 509 SFS/S5R will be notified by the respective organization
   when any person assigned to or employed on Whiteman AFB is transferred to another
   installation, released from military service or ends employment or affiliation with the
   installation.
6. Impounding Privately Owned Vehicles.
   6.1. Standards for Impoundment. 509 SFS will not impound a vehicle unless it interferes
   with traffic, threatens public safety, is involved in criminal activity, contains evidence of
   criminal activity, is stolen or abandoned or in violation of AFI 31-218(I), para 6-2 and para
   6-5.
   6.2. Impoundment Lot. 509 SFS will use the fenced in area on the south side of building
   #711 as the impoundment lot. The RV storage area may be used as an alternate
   impoundment lot.
   6.3. Civilian Impoundment Request. When civilian law enforcement agencies or civilian
   government agencies request a vehicle be impounded for reasons not related to military
   issues, staff such requests through 509 BW/SJA and 509 SFS/DFC. If civilian authorities do
   not accept custody of the vehicle within 72 hours, release the vehicle back to the owner.
   6.4. Vehicle Impoundment. Any vehicle, after being identified by 509 SFS as a suspected
   abandonment, may be towed by government wrecker and impounded. After reasonable
   measures (as described below) prove unsuccessful to identify the owner or when the owner
   has failed to take corrective action to have the vehicle removed, they will be processed and
   disposed of IAW AFI 31-218(I) and DOD 4160.21-M, Defense Material Disposition
   Manual.
      6.4.1. Violations and conditions to tow or impound a vehicle are outlined in paragraph
      2.4 of this instruction.
      6.4.2. When an abandoned vehicle is identified, 509 SFS will complete and forward a
      DD Form 2507, Notice of Vehicle Impoundment, by certified mail to the address of the
      last known owner of the vehicle advising the owner of the impoundment and requesting
      information regarding the owner’s intentions concerning the vehicle.
      6.4.3. 509 SFS will conduct an inventory of all items located in abandoned vehicles via
      DD Form 2506, Vehicle Impoundment Report and complete an AF Form 3545, Incident
      Report. The vehicle and its contents will be accounted for through the Security Forces
      acquired property process.
26                                             WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


     6.4.4. When conducting an inventory of the vehicle, 509 SFS will search all areas.
     Closed containers will also be searched, when necessary, in an effort to ensure the vehicle
     and its contents present no danger to the public and/or to identify the owner. All vehicles
     will be checked by an Explosive Detector Dog team or explosive detection equipment,
     when available, prior to initiating the inventory.
     6.4.5. 509 SFS will maintain custody of abandoned vehicles for a minimum of 60 days
     after sending out the DD Form 2507 certified mail to the last known address of the
     owner.
     6.4.6. When owners decline to recover their vehicles, 509 SFS will seek judicial and/or
     administrative measures to encourage the owner to recover the vehicle. If these measures
     fail, Security Forces will attempt to secure a release of the vehicle by having the owner
     complete DD Form 2507. The 60 day waiting period does not apply when the owner
     releases the vehicle to the Air Force on DD Form 2507, signed letter, power of attorney
     or other legally recognized document.



                                          THOMAS A. BUSSIERE, Brigadier General, USAF
                                          Commander
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                         27


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 31-218(I), Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 22 May 2006
AFI 91-204, Safety Investigation and Reports, 24 September 2008
AFI 91-207, The US Air Force Traffic Safety Program, 27 October 2011
AFMAN 31-116, Air Force Motor Vehicle Traffic Supervision, 09 May 2012
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 01 March 2008
AFPD 31-1, Integrated Defense, 28 October 2011
DoD 4160.21-M, Defense Material Disposition Manual, 18 August 1997
Prescribed Forms
No Forms Prescribed
Adopted Forms
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 3545, Incident Report
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
CVB Form 1805, Central Violation Bureau Form
DD Form 1408, Armed Force Traffic Ticket
DD Form 2506, Vehicle Impoundment Report
DD Form 2507, Notice of Vehicle Impoundment

Abbreviations and Acronyms
509 BW/CC—509th Bomb Wing Commander
509 BW/CP—509th Bomb Wing Command Post
509 BW/SE—509th Bomb Wing Safety
509 BW/SEG—509th Bomb Wing Ground Safety
509 BW/SJA—509th Bomb Wing Staff Judge Advocate
509 CES—509th Civil Engineer Squadron
509 CES/CC—509th Civil Engineer Squadron Commander
509 CES/CEP—509th Civil Engineering Programs Flight
509 CES/CED—509th Civil Engineer Squadron Explosive Ordinance Disposal
509 CONS/CC—509th Contracting Squadron Commander
509 LRS/CC—509th Logistics Readiness Squadron Commander
 28                                          WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


509 LRS/LGRDDO—509th Logistics Readiness Squadron Deployment Distribution Office
509 MDG—509th Medical Group
509 MSG/CC—509th Mission Support Group Commander
509 MSG/CD—509th Mission Support Group Deputy Commander
509 OSS/OSAA—509th Operations Squadron Airfield Flight/Airfield Operations
509 SFS—509th Security Forces Squadron
509 SFS/DFC—509th Security Forces Squadron Defense Force Commander
509 SFS/S3—509th Security Forces Squadron Operations Officer
509 SFS/S3L—509th Security Forces Squadron Police Services
509 SFS/S5R—509th Security Forces Squadron Reports and Analysis Clerk
AF—Air Force
AFB—Air Force Base
AFMAN—Air Force Manual
AFPD—Air Force Prescribing Directive
AFRIMS—Air Force Record Information Management System
ATV—All Terrain Vehicle
CPSC—Consumer Products Safety Commission
FOD—Foreign Object Damage
GOV—Government Owned Vehicle
IAW—In Accordance With
MILMO—Military Motorcycle Operator Training Program
MSF—Motorcycle Safety Foundation
MTO—Model Traffic Ordinances
MWR—Morale, Welfare, Recreation
NCO—Non-commissioned Officer
OPR—Office Primary Responsibility
POV—Privatey Owned Vehicle
PPE—Personal Protective Equipment
PSD—Police Service Desk
RDS—Record Disposition Schedule
RV—Recreational Vehicle
SFMIS—Security Forces Management Information System
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                                                               29


TDY—Temporary Duty
TSCG—Traffic Safety Coordination Group
UVC—Uniform Vehicle Code

Terms
Authorized Emergency Vehicles— Security Forces, ambulance, fire, crash, alert crew vehicles,
509th Bomb Wing Commander, 509th Bomb Wing Vice Commander, 442d Fighter Wing
Commander, all 509th Group Commander vehicles, Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD), safety
vehicles, CE Readiness Mobile Command Post vehicles and the Supervisor of Flying vehicle.
All such vehicles should be distinctively marked and have operable flashing lights and sirens
when feasible. In cases where permanent installation of such equipment is not feasible, operators
will utilize a single portable dash mounted emergency light.
Cantonment Area— The main business area of the base.
Crosswalk— The area marked on a roadway for the purpose of pedestrian traffic.
Driver— Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a motor vehicle is
considered a “driver.” A person is considered to be in actual physical control when in position to
control the vehicle, whether to regulate or restrain its operation or movement. For example,
sitting in the front seat of a parked car, keeping it in restraint or to control its movement. The
term "driver" is used interchangeably with the word "operator."
Fire Lane— The area adjacent to any building, extending 25 feet from the building in any
direction, excluding designated parking areas, or any area marked or posted as a fire lane.
Identifying Number— The numbers and letters, if any, on vehicles or license plates attached to
vehicles designed for the purpose of identifying the vehicle.
Implied Consent— This applies to any person granted the privilege of operating a motor vehicle
on a military installation. Such persons shall be deemed to have given consent to a chemical test
of their blood, breath or urine for the purpose of determining the alcohol/drug content of their
blood, if cited or lawfully stopped for any offense arising out of acts alleged to have been
committed while driving or in actual physical control of a motor vehicle while under the
influence of intoxicating substances.
Motor Vehicle— Any self-propelled vehicle not operated exclusively upon tracks, except farm
tractors and motorized bicycles.
Stop— The complete cessation of movement.
Stop or Stopping— When prohibited it means the halting, even momentarily of a vehicle,
whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or, in
compliance with the direction of a police officer, traffic control sign or signal.
Through Roadway— Every primary roadway, or portion thereof, on which vehicular traffic is
given preferential right-of-way.
Traffic Control Devices— All signs, signal devices, or markings placed or erected for the
purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic. This includes Security Forces, or other persons
authorized by the Security Forces in the performance of traffic control duties.
 30                                            WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013


Trailer— Any vehicle without motor power designed for carrying persons or property and for
being drawn by a motor vehicle.1.5.15. Vehicle. Every device in, upon or by which any person
or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a roadway.
WHITEMANAFBI31-116 21 MARCH 2013                            31


                                      Attachment 2
                  TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS REQUIRING A CVB 1805

Code    Violation
M56    Careless driving/Reckless driving
M57    Driving on a suspended/revoked license
M62    DUI
