BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                   WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE                                         POLICY DIRECTIVE 36-2
                                                                                       12 OCTOBER 2005

                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                        VOLUNTARY LEAVE TRANSFER PROGRAM



NOTICE:        This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
               http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 88 MSS/DPCZB (Collette Myers)                            Certified by: 88 MSS/DPCZ (Ellen Round)
Supersedes Wrightpattersonafbpd36-2,                                                          Pages: 2
           21 April 1999                                                               Distribution: F

This publication establishes processing procedures and guidance regarding the Voluntary Leave Transfer
Program of all civilian personnel employees serviced by the Wright-Patterson AFB Civilian Personnel
Flight.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Updates POCs, forms, office symbols and websites.

1. The Federal Employees Leave Sharing Amendments Act of 1993, Public Law 103-103, took effect on
February 5, 1994, to make permanent the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program.

2. The program was established to allow a civilian employee who has a personal or family medical emer-
gency, and has insufficient sick or annual leave, to receive transferred annual leave from other civilian
employees with the concurrence of the respective management officials.

3. A medical emergency is defined as a medical condition of an employee or an immediate family mem-
ber of such employee that is likely to require an employee’s absence from duty for a prolonged period of
time, and will result in a substantial loss of income to the employee because of unavailability of paid leave
for a minimum of 24 work hours, or 30% of the biweekly work hours scheduled for part-time employees.

4. Relatives considered to be family members in regard to the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program are: par-
ents, spouse and parents thereof; children, including adopted children, step-children, foster children and
spouses thereof; brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; and any individual related by blood or affinity
whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family relationship.

5. To meet eligibility for the program an applicant’s emergency must exhaust all of his/her own annual
leave, sick leave, compensatory time, credit hours and show he/she will be in a nonpay status for 24 work-
ing hours (30% of biweekly schedule for part-time employees). In accordance with 5 CFR (Code of Fed-
2                                         WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBPD36-2 12 OCTOBER 2005


eral Regulations), Section 630.902, advanced leave is not considered to be available paid leave, and
should not be counted when determining the eligibility date of the applicant.

6. To become an approved leave recipient an employee will need to submit an application form (Applica-
tion to Become a Leave Recipient, OPM Form 630), with supporting medical documentation to his/her
first-level supervisor. To meet program requirements, the medical statement must be an original docu-
ment, on the physician’s letterhead or prescription pad form with the patient’s (and/or employee’s) name
and it must be dated and signed by the physician. The statement must include the beginning date the
employee was unable to work, with an estimated date the employee is expected to return to duty. The
diagnosis and a prognosis must also be included in the statement. Additional information regarding med-
ical statement requirements is provided in WPAFBI 36-202, Voluntary Leave Transfer Program.

7. Processing procedures and guidance are available in WPAFBI 36-202. Required forms and the proce-
dures for the leave transfer program are now available on Civilian Personnel’s Home Page on the World
Wide Web. The Voluntary Leave Transfer Program is listed under the Leave section. To access through
the website, enter https://www.civpersonnel.wpafb.af.mil.

8. All applications, medical statements and donations must be submitted to 88 MSS/DPCZB, through the
first level supervisor.

9. Questions concerning the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program may be addressed to the organization’s
servicing Human Resources Specialist (Employee Relations), or to the program administrator in the Civil-
ian Personnel Flight, 88 MSS/DPCZB.



                                              DONNA M. SCARLATA, Chief
                                              Civilian Personnel Flight
