BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          WRIGHT PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE                                  INSTRUCTION 36-802

                                                                              21 JANUARY 2010

                                                                                        Personnel

                                                      RELEASE OF PERSONNEL DUE TO
                                                 HAZARDOUS WEATHER OR EMERGENCY
                                                                       CONDITIONS

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               publishing website at www.e-publishing.af.mil.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 88 FSS/FSMCZ                                                     Certified by: 88 FSS/FSMC
Supersedes: WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-                                            (Mr. Brian Normile)
            802, 5 January 2006                                                          Pages: 5


This instruction implements AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, AFPD 10-2, Readiness, by
providing for continuation of operations in the event of hostile action, natural disaster, or other
emergency condition; AFPD 15-1, Atmosphere and Space Environmental Support, by providing
timely, accurate, and meaningful weather support to the United States (US) Air Force, US Army,
their Reserve and National Guard agencies, national programs, and other military and
government agencies, as required; all Air Force members will be present for duty unless their
absence is authorized. This instruction applies to all organizations or tenants, as well as all
branches of the Armed Forces located on Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB). This
publication does not apply to Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and Air National Guard
(ANG) units. Send comments and suggestions about this publication for improvements on AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to the Office of Primary Responsibility
(OPR). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance with AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/gcss-af61a/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision updates personnel changes.
1. Policy. Release of personnel is predicated upon ensuring the health and safety of all
personnel. The Air Base Wing Commander (88 ABW/CC) will make the final decision for base-
wide administrative release of military and civilian personnel. The 88 ABW/CC may also
2                                    WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-802 21 JANUARY 2010


coordinate the decision to release personnel with other federal agencies in the Dayton
metropolitan area. All personnel will be released except those performing functions which must
be staffed under all emergency conditions for reasons of health, safety, national security, or other
crucial operations. Personnel involved in critical functions or programs determined by proper
authority to be base-essential may be required to remain on duty or report to duty if assigned to
subsequent shifts. All organizations must evaluate their mission and, by internal directive,
designate specific individuals and/or functions which must be continued with due regard to the
health and safety of their personnel. See WPAFB Instruction 36-810, Designation of Base-
Essential Personnel.
2. Responsibilities and Procedures.
    2.1. General Emergency Situations:
       2.1.1. When hazardous weather conditions or other weather related emergency
       conditions exist or appear imminent, forecasters from the 88 OSS/OSW – Base Weather
       Station, will issue weather watches, warnings, and advisories in accordance with WPAFB
       Instruction 15-101, Weather Support. These weather watches, warnings, and advisories
       have been developed relative to adverse weather scenarios which might impact mission
       requirements or affect the health or safety of personnel. All weather watches, warnings,
       and advisories are relayed to the Air Force Materiel Command (AFMC) Command
       Center.
       2.1.2. The AFMC Command Center, when notified of deteriorating road conditions, will
       advise the88 ABW/CC.
       2.1.3. The 88 ABW/CC will decide whether to dismiss personnel because of hazardous
       weather conditions or other emergency conditions. When the determination has been
       made by the 88 ABW/CC to release personnel, the AFMC Command Center will enact
       notification procedures in accordance with WPAFB Plan 17, Recall/Notification Plan.
       Personnel may be informed of release from duty via phone calls, e-mail, text messaging,
       and pop-up messages. Notifications may also be made by using either telephone backup
       systems or runners. Normally, personnel are dismissed on a staggered basis to avoid
       traffic congestion. Actual time of early dismissal is expressed as a window of time
       during which personnel are expected to depart in a pre-coordinated, staggered sequence.
       Individual organizations must have a staggered departure plan. To facilitate traffic flow
       off the base, and when directed by the 88 ABW/CC, the 88 SFS will open additional
       gates for outbound traffic only. The 88 ABW/CC will convey the details of this traffic
       plan with the notification of early dismissal.
       2.1.4. All activities so advised will be responsible for further dissemination of the
       information down through the lowest level of the organization.
       2.1.5. The release of first shift personnel due to emergency situations such as hazardous
       weather conditions, may or may not affect second and third shift employees.
       Determination and notification from the 88 ABW/CC regarding delayed reporting, early
       release, or base closure on the first shift will also include the status of second and third
       shift employees. Personnel who are expected to report for, and remain at work, even
       when others are excused, are called base-essential personnel. These individuals will be
       officially notified by the appropriate organizational commanders and/or supervisors of
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-802 21 JANUARY 2010                                                       3


       their requirement for continued performance. The decision for hazardous weather
       dismissal for non base-essential employees who work outside normal duty hours or duty
       days will be made by the 88 ABW/CC. The 88 ABW/CC will notify the AFMC
       Command Center of the decision. Upon notification, organizational focal points which
       have employees regularly working outside of normal duty hours/days will ensure their
       employees are notified of the decision.
   2.2. Weather Conditions During Non-duty Hours:
       2.2.1. When hazardous weather conditions occur during non-duty hours which could be
       expected to seriously affect the safe and timely arrival of the normal day shift workforce,
       the 88 ABW/CC determines the appropriate modification and/or cancellation of work
       shifts, and makes notification to:
          2.2.1.1. The Public Affairs duty officer, who will advise the news media (radio, TV,
          newspapers, as appropriate) as to the modification and/or cancellation of work
          schedules.
          2.2.1.2. Additionally, the AFMC Command Center may make additional
          announcements and broadcast the appropriate text messages IAW WPAFB Plan 17.
       2.2.2. Assigned personnel will be periodically advised when storms or other hazardous
       weather conditions develop during non-duty hours. They should listen to radio or TV
       news or log onto http://www.wpafb.af.mil/ and follow specific instructions pertaining to
       the base as related to the situation described.
   2.3. Isolated Emergency Situations:
       2.3.1. When a specific isolated emergency occurs (fire, building flooding, explosion,
       etc.), the supervisor of the affected area must immediately notify the building manager,
       director, division, staff office chief, commander and/or unit chief, or chain of command.
       2.3.2. The commander and/or two-letter chief will contact their servicing Human
       Resources Specialist (Employee Relations) in the Civilian Personnel Office if
       administrative dismissal is warranted. The Human Resources Specialist will contact the
       88 ABW/CC for a final determination/approval on the administrative dismissal. The 88
       ABW/CC renders the final decision.
       2.3.3. The Human Resources Specialist will advise the appropriate officials of the
       ordered time of early dismissal.
       2.3.4. Any group dismissals due to temperature extremes must be established by
       reasonable standards of judgment that conditions are such as to actually prevent working
       and that there are no alternative work sites or offices in which employees may work or be
       utilized. Matters such as physical requirements of positions as well as the temperature of
       the work areas must be considered. The same coordination efforts that are used for
       emergency situations are used for group dismissals due to temperature extremes.
3. Accounting for Time Absent from Duty. Absence of civilian employees due to early
dismissal administratively ordered by the 88 ABW/CC will be excused under the conditions
specified in Air Force Instruction 36-815, Absence and Leave. When ordered by the 88
ABW/CC, time is annotated as administrative leave on the timecard. Absence of civilian
employees due to late reporting because of hazardous weather conditions may be excused under
4                                 WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-802 21 JANUARY 2010


the conditions specified in AFI 36-815. The appropriate section of the timecards with the
applicable information should be annotated weather related, when an absence is excused because
of hazardous weather conditions. Documentation of absence is accomplished according to the
Defense Civilian Payroll System timekeeping system.
4. Adopted Form: AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication.




                                           ERIC L. DILWORTH
                                           Civilian Personnel Officer
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-802 21 JANUARY 2010                                 5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave, 5 September 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 10-2, Readiness, 30 October 2006
AFPD 15-1, Atmospheric and Space Environmental Support, 8 January 2001
AFPD 36-29, Military Standards, 29 October 2009
WPAFBI 15-101, Weather Support, 4 November 2008
WPAFBI 36-810, Designation of Base-Essential Personnel, 29 January 2008
