BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE                                INSTRUCTION 32-7064

                                                                            27 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                              Civil Engineering

                                                  HUNTING, FISHING, AND BOATING ON
                                                  WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 88ABW/CEI                                                        Certified by: 88ABW/CEI
                                                                            (Mr. Mark L. Mays)
                                                                                       Pages: 16
Supersedes: WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI
           32-7064, 28 October 2010


This regulation prescribes rules, fees and requirements under which hunting, fishing, and boating
will be permitted on base according to AFI 32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management.
It applies to all persons hunting or fishing on base. This regulation also prescribes the
membership of the Natural Resources Working Group. The Natural Resources Working Group
is the action agency on policy, financial, and legal items pertaining to fishing and hunting on
base property. This Working Group reports to the Base Environmental, Safety, and
Occupational Health (ESOH) Council and is chaired by the Base Natural Resources Manager.
This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard or the Air Force Reserve Center
(ANG/AFRC) units. Send comments and suggestions about this publication for improvements
on AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, to the Office of Primary
Responsibility (OPR). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force Records Information Management
System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document is substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. This supersedes the
previous version. Much of the previous regulation is incorporated and updated. This revision
changes organization and office symbols; personnel eligible to hunt and fish; licensing
requirements, and approved hunting areas. In addition, this revision contains five attachments.
 2                                  WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014


Attachment 1 shows references and includes a list of acronyms and abbreviations. Attachment
2 is a table of legal definitions in relation to words/terms within this document. Attachment 3,
titled, Approved Hunting Areas Map, includes areas where hunting is allowed and prohibited.
Attachment 4 titled, Fishing Limits on Landlocked Waters, lists the daily catch or possession
limits for landlocked water bodies on base. Attachment 5 lists contact numbers for appropriate
on-base agencies involved in the WPAFB Natural Resources program.
1. Responsibilities.
     1.1. All persons who hunt and fish on base must be familiar with the contents of this
     regulation and must have in their possession the proper identification, license, and/or permits
     prescribed by this regulation.
     1.2. The 88th Security Forces Squadron is responsible for enforcing this regulation, as well
     as enforcing the State of Ohio hunting and fishing laws and federal migratory bird
     regulations. The Chief, Security Forces, designates in writing those persons who are to be
     Game Wardens to help enforce this regulation and cite violators accordingly.
     1.3. The Natural Resources Working Group, in conjunction with the Base Natural Resources
     Manager, develops long and short-range programs for the maintenance and restoration of
     base land and water resources devoted to recreational hunting and fishing. The working
     group develops the budget and approves the allocation of funds consistent with these
     programs and the requirements of Appropriated Fund 57X5095 Fish and Wildlife Account.
     The working group also arranges for the administration of the program and initiates work
     requests for work required to support the approved programs. The working group reviews
     work order requests submitted to Base Civil Engineering by other organizations that have
     potential impact on the hunting and fishing programs.
     1.4. The WPAFB Rod and Gun Club operates the hunter check station on a reimbursable
     basis for the base-approved pheasant hunting program. The Rod and Gun Club, in
     conjunction with the Natural Resources Program Manager, develops the stocking schedules
     for both the hunting and fishing programs. The club and Natural Resources Program
     Manager arrange for receipt of fish and game birds and the club provides volunteers to
     release (stock) the game birds.
     1.5. The Natural Resources Manager, in the Installation Management Division, chairs the
     Natural Resources Working Group. Responsibilities include the submittal of the Fish and
     Wildlife Budget, ensuring compliance with AFI 32-7064, integration of the fishing and
     hunting programs with other natural resources programs, and implementation of the WPAFB
     Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan.
     1.6. The 88th Civil Engineer Directorate accomplishes Civil Engineering functions according
     to AFI 32-7064 within available resources and the established priorities.
     1.7. The Natural Resources Working Group meets quarterly or as needed and includes the
     following designated members:
        1.7.1. Security Forces Squadron: Chief Game Warden and/or Assistant Chief Game
        Warden.
        1.7.2. Installation Management Division: 88 ABW/CEIEA (Natural Resources Manager
        and Natural Resources Assistant).
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014                                                     3


       1.7.3. Weapons or Ground Safety.
       1.7.4. 88 FSS/FSCO: Rod and Gun Club Manager, Rod and Gun Club President, Rod
       and Gun Club Fishing Committee Chairperson, and Rod and Gun Club Hunting
       Committee Chairperson.
       1.7.5. 88 FSS/FSCO: Outdoor Recreation Specialist.
       1.7.6. Technical Consultants, by invitation.
       1.7.7. Base Judge Advocate (JA) representative.
       1.7.8. 88 ABW/CEO.
       1.7.9. 88 ABW/CEOIE.
2. Eligible Personnel.
   2.1. All active duty and retired military members, active and retired DOD civilian
   employees, members of reserve components of the military, contract employees possessing a
   current ‘common access card’ (CaC), their immediate families, and bona fide guests thereof
   are eligible to hunt or fish. Guests must be accompanied by the sponsor and are limited to
   one guest per day, per sponsor.
3. Purchasing WPAFB Hunting and Fishing Permits.
   3.1. Base fishing permits are sold at the following locations: Building 892, Area A (Rod and
   Gun Club); Building 95, Area A (Outdoor Recreation Office). Base hunting permits are
   available at the Rod and Gun Club (Bldg. 892) and Outdoor Recreation (Bldg. 95).
4. Trapping.
   4.1. Trapping of animals, including game species, is not allowed unless approved in writing.
   Permission may be granted on a case-by-case basis. Special limitations apply when granted.
   Contact the 88 ABW/CEIEA Natural Resources Program Manager for more information.
5. Hunting. All federal, State of Ohio, and base rules and regulations apply. When more than
one of these statutes addresses a common matter or issue, the more restrictive applies. All
hunting within the boundaries of this base and on all Wright-Patterson AFB controlled lands
outside the base perimeter fences is governed by the State of Ohio hunting laws and federal
migratory bird regulations as they pertain to seasons (private land seasons apply), shooting
hours, as well as bag and possession limits unless exceptions are prescribed in this instruction.
   5.1. Game to be Hunted. The following game may be taken during established seasons
   prescribed by Ohio or federal laws and base seasons, which may be more restrictive: deer,
   squirrel, rabbit, game birds (pheasant and chukar), fox, migratory birds (ducks, teal,
   mourning dove, geese, and woodcock), raccoon, opossum, woodchuck, coyote, and crow.
   Deer hunting seasons are determined on a year-to-year basis. Upland game hunting hours are
   determined on an annual basis by the Natural Resources Working Group. It is illegal to hunt
   species not listed above. The Natural Resources Working Group will determine the species
   to be hunted, seasons, hours, and areas that may be hunted on an annual basis and this list
   will be posted at the Rod and Gun Club. Hunting rules and dates will be provided to each
   licensed hunter when purchasing their base permit.
4                                  WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014


    5.2. Licensing Requirements. All hunters, regardless of age, must satisfy State of Ohio
    licensing requirements and must also have a base hunting permit.
       5.2.1. All hunters must have a State of Ohio hunting license except military members on
       leave status. A base hunting permit is required in addition to the state permit.
       5.2.2. On designated release days, all hunters will be issued a controlled area permit at
       the Rod and Gun Club.
       5.2.3. A new base hunting permit is required the first (1st) of March of each year at a cost
       as prescribed in the permit fees established annually by the Natural Resources Working
       Group. If this permit is lost, stolen, or destroyed, it can be reissued at a cost of $1.50 for
       replacement.
       5.2.4. Daily fees that apply for pheasant hunting only on release days are in addition to
       the hunting permit.
    5.3. Archery (or Bow) and Gun Deer Hunting:
       5.3.1. Seasons, hours, and eligibility are determined on a year-to-year basis and are
       usually more restrictive than those prescribed by Ohio law. All persons planning to
       archery hunt deer at WPAFB will have to pass a proficiency test prior to purchasing a
       base hunting permit. The test will be administered at Bldg. 892, Rod & Gun Club.
       5.3.2. All deer hunters are required to have a state deer permit and state hunting license.
       Military on leave are exempt from the state hunting license requirement, but must be in
       possession of a base hunting permit. In addition, military personnel on leave must have a
       state deer tag and be in possession of approved leave papers.
       5.3.3. Equipment provisions for bow, crossbow, and muzzle loaders and ammunition are
       the same as Ohio law. Handguns are not permitted anywhere on WPAFB. Muzzle
       loaders are only permitted in the authorized hunting areas during the deer gun season.
       There is no special muzzle loader season open on any base property. All archery hunters
       must meet the hunter orange requirement during any state or base deer gun season,
       regardless of the area in which they are hunting.
       5.3.4. Driving of deer is prohibited in all areas of WPAFB.
       5.3.5. Deer-bow hunting is restricted during certain hours within the boundaries of the
       posted Licensed Shooting Preserve on pheasant release days. Hours are established each
       year by the Natural Resources Working Group and are posted as part of the base hunting
       regulations. These are posted at the Rod and Gun Club.
       5.3.6. Portable tree stands and ground blinds may be used during the season; however,
       the construction or use of permanent stands or the attachment of permanent climbing aids
       on trees is prohibited. All tree stands and ground blinds must be clearly marked with the
       owner’s name, organization, and phone number. No tree stand/ ground blind may be
       erected within 75 yards of another tree stand/ ground blind. Limit of 1 tree stand/ ground
       blind per licensed hunter. Tree stands and ground blinds may be put up 30 days prior to
       the start of the season, but must be removed within 15 days after the end of hunting
       season. A base hunting permit is required prior to placing tree stands/ ground blinds.
       Tree stands and ground blinds that are left in the hunting areas are considered unsecured
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014                                                      5


     property and should only be left in the hunting areas at the hunters’ own risk. The theft
     of these aids will not be investigated.
     5.3.7. Check in and out procedures will be posted at the Rod and Gun Club.
  5.3. 8 All deer harvested on WPAFB must be reported to the base Natural Resources
  Program Manager by calling (937) 257-4857.
  5.4. Safety Rules:
     5.4.1. Only shotguns with shot size no larger than No. 6 lead or No. 2 steel will be used
     for hunting upland game under the jurisdiction of this base. Only steel shot may be used
     when hunting migratory waterfowl. Rifle and pistol ammunition are prohibited. Only
     rifled slugs or sabots will be used with shotguns when deer gun hunting. Muzzle loading
     rifles are permitted during the deer gun season within the confines of the licensed
     shooting preserve only.
     5.4.2. All persons age 15 or younger must be accompanied by an adult while hunting.
     5.4.3. All persons must wear a jacket, vest, or outer garment of hunter orange in addition
     to a cap or hat of this same color while hunting upland game on base land.
     5.4.4. Shooting on, from, along, or across a roadway is strictly prohibited.
     5.4.5. Hunting or shooting within 900 feet of a runway or taxiway or within 400 feet of
     an aerodrome structure or facility, building, lake or recreation area is strictly prohibited.
     5.4.6. Target shooting is not allowed in the hunting area.
     5.4.7. The total number of hunters permitted in the hunting areas at any one time is
     controlled by the Rod and Gun Club.
  5.5. Approved Hunting Areas. A map of the approved hunting boundaries is available and
  posted annually in the Rod and Gun Club as well as on the Installation Management Division
  e-DASH                          site:                      https://cs1.eis.af.mil/sites/edash-
  ins2/wp/Pages%20%20Programs/Natural%20Resources.aspx. Attachment 3 of this
  instruction shows a general map of the approved hunting areas. Hunting is prohibited within
  750 feet of the munitions storage area and within the Warfighter Training Center (WTC) as
  shown by the red hatched areas on the attached map. This map may change annually so
  checking the above mentioned website and/or at the Rod & Gun Club prior to going afield is
  mandatory. It is the responsibility of the hunter to ensure that they know the current areas
  open for hunting.
  5.6. Licensed Shooting Preserve Hunting Program. The base has designated 266 acres as a
  licensed shooting preserve. Signs are posted along the boundaries to identify the area as a
  shooting preserve. The shooting preserve is mostly bound by the fence adjacent to Marl
  Road, Symmes Road, and Riverview Road. Live ring-necked pheasants may be stocked in
  this area on a scheduled basis. Chukar partridge or quail may be released periodically. The
  preserve will normally open for hunting on or about the first Friday in November and close
  the last Sunday in February. During this period it is permissible to hunt on the preserve all
  species of game that is legal on base lands, consistent with the rules and provisions of this
  regulation. The following rules for pheasant hunting in the preserve apply also to chukar
  partridge or quail if released.
 6                                 WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014


        5.6.1. To hunt fowl in the licensed shooting preserve a base ID, Daily Base Hunting
        Permit, and Ohio Hunting License are required of all persons hunting on specified release
        days. A complete schedule of the release program is published in the Skywrighter prior
        to the first release date. The schedule is also posted in the Rod and Gun Club.
        5.6.2. Pheasant hunting is permitted on any base land open to upland game hunting
        during the season prescribed by Ohio law for private hunting land. At any other time, it
        is permissible to hunt pheasants only within the confines of the posted, licensed shooting
        preserve. Persons engaged in hunting pheasants outside the posted shooting preserve
        land are in violation of this regulation and Ohio hunting laws. This is strictly enforced.
        5.6.3. Both cock and hen pheasants, as well as other game species in season, may be
        taken during the ring-necked pheasant hunting program. All game birds taken on release
        days must be returned to the Rod and Gun Club to have transportation bands put on
        before removing the birds from the area. Persons hunting on non-release days are not
        required to pay the Daily Permit fee, nor are they required to check in at the Rod and Gun
        Club before hunting.
        5.6.4. Upland game hunters are not permitted in the fields during specified hours on
        pheasant release days. These hours are clearly posted at the Rod and Gun Club. Hours
        of all gun hunting for upland game is from 1000 to 1400 daily, except during the deer gun
        season when hours are ½ hour before sunrise to ½ hour after sunset, per the sunrise-
        sunset table contained in Ohio Department of Natural Resources (ODNR) Publication
        5085. Once deer archery season closes, hours for gun hunting of pheasants are sunrise to
        sunset. See Ohio Administrative Code 1501:31-15-01 for further information.
        5.6.5. All persons hunting on approved release days (except archery deer hunters and
        waterfowl hunters) must check in at the Rod and Gun Club to receive a hunter safety
        briefing. During the safety briefings, hunters will be reminded that it is their
        responsibility to sign out of the hunting area at the end of the hunt. Hunters must return
        the Controlled Area Access Permit and sign out on the Daily Hunter Log at the Rod and
        Gun Club. All game taken must be reported in the proper blocks on the same log.
        5.6.6. Special, controlled hunts may be held for areas on WPAFB where hunting is not
        traditionally allowed for the purpose of controlling animal populations. Full coordination
        will be performed prior to conducting any such activities.
6. Fishing. All federal, State of Ohio, and base rules and regulations apply. When more than
one of these statutes addresses a common matter or issue, the more restrictive applies.
     6.1. Licensing Requirements. A state license is not required, but a base fishing permit is
     required for all persons 12 years of age and older to take fish from Gravel, Twin and Bass
     Lakes. A State of Ohio fishing license (16 years of age and older) and base fishing permit
     (12 years of age and older) are required to take fish, frogs and turtles from non-landlocked
     waters on base (Hebble Creek, Trout Creek, Mad River). A state license is not required of a
     military member on leave status. Persons 16 years of age and older must possess both
     licenses to take frogs or turtles from Gravel Lake, Twin Lake and Bass Lake.
        6.1.1. A new state license and/or base permit is required 1 March of each year. If this
        permit is lost, stolen or destroyed it can be reissued at a replacement cost.
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014                                                    7


     6.1.2. The state license and/or base permit must be in possession at all times while
     fishing and must be shown to any person upon request.
     6.1.3. A base fishing permit is not required of a US Armed Forces veteran who the
     Secretary of Veterans Affairs has determined to be totally or permanently totally
     disabled, and who has a personal description and a certification of disability from the
     Veteran’s Administration in possession while fishing.
     6.1.4. Fish caught by unlicensed fishermen (children under 12) will be included in the
     limit of the accompanying licensed fishermen.
  6.2. WPAFB Fishing Permits. Contact Outdoor Recreation at 257-9889, or the Rod & Gun
  Club at 257-3935 for the current permit fees.
  6.3. Daily Catch or Possession Limits:
     6.3.1. Limits on non-landlocked waters are according to State of Ohio fishing laws.
     6.3.2. Limits on landlocked waters follow Attachment 4.
     6.3.3. When four trout have been caught, fishing must be discontinued for that day,
     regardless of whether or not the trout are given to another person or if fishing for a
     different species. Throwing trout back in the lake once they are caught is not permitted.
     6.3.4. Exceptions to the above limits will be posted at the individual lakes when
     necessary.
     6.3.5. The minimum size limit on bass and walleye in Bass Lake is 15 inches. Bass and
     walleye smaller than 15 inches must be returned to the lake.
  6.4. Seasons. Except for temporary individual lake closures, there are no hours or seasons
  for the use of the landlocked lakes.
  6.5. Bait Restrictions. Bait restrictions, if any, will be posted at the individual lakes.
  Minnows are not allowed at Gravel Lake.
  6.6. Line Limits. Anglers may not use more than two fishing lines whether fastened to a
  pole, a rod and reel, or hand held. Not more than three hooks may be used on each line.
  Each angler must maintain constant control over the fishing rods at all times. Trotlines, set
  or bank lines, and float lines are not allowed except in the Mad River, where their use is
  according to State of Ohio regulations.
  6.7. Turtles and Frogs. Taking of turtles and frogs is according to State of Ohio laws.
  6.8. Archery Fishing. Bows of any weight pull may be used for archery fishing.
  Appropriate state license and/or base permit are required. Archers may take frogs, turtles and
  forage fish. Crossbows, spear guns of any type, and CO2 cylinder operated guns are not
  allowed.
  6.9. Minnow Traps and Seines. Such devices may be used in streams and the Mad River
  according to Ohio laws. Their use requires an Ohio fishing license. They may not be used in
  landlocked waters on base.
  6.10. Snagging of Fish. Snagging of fish is not allowed on this base.
  6.11. Safety Provisions:
 8                                  WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014


        6.11.1. All persons under 12 years of age must be accompanied by a licensed adult while
        fishing.
        6.11.2. Boating is only allowed on Bass Lake.
        6.11.3. Ice fishing is not allowed.
        6.11.4. Fires are prohibited at Gravel and Twin lakes due to Fire Department response
        time issues. Small fires are permitted in a fire pit and within 5 feet of the water’s edge at
        Bass Lake. The fire is to be in a cleared area (at least 10 feet from the nearest tree or
        shrub). Do not build fires on the roadways, parking areas, dock or ramp. No fires are
        permitted on the hill or beyond the buoy line. This area is designated as a clearance area
        for the ammo storage facility and is restricted. No burning of trash, old lumber or
        hazardous materials is permitted. Fires must not be left unattended at any time and must
        be completely extinguished before leaving.
7. Boating on Bass Lake.
     7.1. Boating is permitted according to watercraft requirements established by ODNR with
     the following restrictions:
        7.1.1. Watercraft Limitations:
           7.1.1.1. No inflatable air mattresses, inner tubes or sailboards are permitted.
           7.1.1.2. Registered watercraft acceptable for use in Bass Lake includes: canoes, bass
           boats, row boats, kayaks, fishing tubes and sail boats. Only electric motors may be
           used in the lake. If your boat has a gas engine, it is mandatory that the engine is kept
           up while on the ramp and in the water.
           7.1.1.3. No boats are permitted in Gravel or Twin Lakes.
           7.1.1.4. No boats are permitted beyond the buoy line. This is a restricted area.
           7.1.1.5. Bass Lake boat ramp is available for watercraft. After launching watercraft
           into the lake, the tow vehicle and trailer must be moved to the general parking lot.
        7.1.2. Licensing Requirements. All boats in use must be properly registered for
        operation in Ohio. The registration numbers must be affixed to the watercraft.
           7.1.2.1. No watercraft will be operated on base unless the person in charge is 16
           years of age or older.
        7.1.3. Safety.
           7.1.3.1. Safety equipment. All watercraft are required to have safety equipment as
           prescribed by the Ohio Department of Natural Resources (US Coast Guard approved
           flotation devices, oars, anchors, lights, flags and so forth). All individuals must wear
           floatation devices at all times while in a watercraft on Bass Lake.
           7.1.3.2. It is not permissible at any time to store, stow or leave any watercraft
           unattended. This includes along the shoreline or docks.
           7.1.3.3. It is prohibited to swim, dive or wade in Bass, Gravel or Twin Lakes.
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014                                                       9


8. Violations.
   8.1. Besides prosecution for violations of applicable federal and State of Ohio laws and
   regulations, base personnel apprehended for violation of this regulation will be reported to
   the appropriate unit commander. The individual’s privilege of hunting, fishing or boating on
   this base may be suspended for one year from the date of the incident or indefinitely
   depending on the severity of the violation. A second violation may result in the permanent
   suspension of hunting/fishing privileges on base. In addition to violations of fish and game
   regulations, base hunting and fishing privileges may be suspended for any of the following:
       8.1.1. Knowingly hunting and/or contracting for the sale of wild game, to include
       waterfowl found on base when game is out of season and in its natural habitat. Selling,
       offering to sell, buying, or trading for profit any fish or wildlife species taken from the
       base.
       8.1.2. Carelessly discharging weapons.
       8.1.3. Discharging and/or carrying a weapon while under the influence of alcohol or
       narcotics (Ohio Revised Code (ORC) 2923.15).
       8.1.4. Willfully discharging a firearm in a wanton manner in the presence of any
       individual.
       8.1.5. Operating or being in control of any vessel (i.e. boat) when under the influence of
       alcohol and/or drugs (ORC 1547.11; ORC 1547.111).
       8.1.6. Any violation that endangers the lives and/or property of others.
       8.1.7. Littering, to include throwing or depositing waste, garbage, refuse, junk or debris
       on or in any land or water under the jurisdiction of this base.
9. Appeal Procedures.
   9.1. An official channel of appeal has been set up for those persons cited for violation of this
   regulation. Any person cited for a violation of this regulation may write a formal letter to
   Security Forces Squadron explaining the grounds on which the appeal is based. A
   recommendation is made by 88 SFS/Chief Game Warden to the base commander within 30
   days. The base commander will notify the appellant in writing of the decision on the appeal
   and the reasons therefore. The base commander’s decision on the appeal is final. All letters
   of appeal must be received by 88 SFS within 15 calendar days from the date of notification
   of suspension. Appeals received after 15 calendar days are considered only if the
   commander determines that the appellant has included a valid reason for not appealing within
   the 15 day timeframe.
10. Volunteers Assisting With Enforcement.
   10.1. Anyone observing a person or persons violating this regulation should call the Security
   Forces Chief Game Warden at 257-6516 to report the violation as soon as possible. Citizens
   who observe wildlife violations should attempt to record as much information as possible, to
   include license plate numbers, descriptions of vehicles and hunting vehicle placard numbers.
 10                              WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014


11. Conservation and Safety.
   11.1. All persons will practice safety, observe posted restricted areas, properly dispose of
   trash, avoid water pollution and practice those fundamentals of conduct referred to as “good
   sportsmanship.”




                                           DAVID A. PERKINS, P.E.
                                           Director, Civil Engineer Directorate
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014                                    11


                                       Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI32-7064, Integrated Natural Resources Management, 17 September 2004
AFMAN33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
88 ABW/CEI—88th Air Base Wing Civil Engineer Directorate, Installation Management
Division
ABW—Air Base Wing
AF—Air Force
AFI—Air Force Instruction
AFMC—Air Force Materiel Command
BASH—Bird/Wildlife Aircraft Strike Hazard
CFR—Code of Federal Regulations
DoD—Department of Defense
ESOH—Environmental, Safety, and Occupational Health
GIS—Geographic Information Systems
HQ AFMC—Headquarters Air Force Materiel Command
INRMP—Integrated Natural Resources Management Plan
MAJCOM—Major Command
NRM—Natural Resources Management
ODNR—Ohio Department of Natural Resources
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
ORC—Ohio Revised Code
TBGC—Twin Base Golf Course
USFWS—U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service
WPAFB—Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
 12                                 WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014


                                          Attachment 2
                                    LEGAL DEFINITIONS

Figure A2.1. Legal Definitions
As used in Chapters 1531 and 1533 of the Ohio Revised Code and the Ohio Administrative
Code:

ACCOMPANY – means to go along with another person while staying within a distance from
the person that enables uninterrupted, unaided visual and auditory communications.
BAITED AREA – means any area where shelled, shucked, or unshucked corn, wheat or other
grain, salt, or other feed whatsoever capable of luring, attracting, or enticing game animals is
directly or indirectly placed, exposed, deposited, distributed, or scattered and such area shall
remain a baited area for ten days following complete removal of all such corn, wheat or other
grain, salt, or other feed.
BAITING – means the placing, exposing, depositing, distributing, or scattering of shelled,
shucked, or unshelled corn, wheat or other grain, salt or other feed so as to constitute for such
wild turkeys, mourning doves or migratory birds, a lure, attraction or enticement to, on or over
any area where hunters are attempting to take them.
BAG LIMIT – means the number, measurement, or weight of any kind of crayfish, aquatic
insects, fish, frogs, turtles, wild birds, and wild quadrupeds permitted to be taken.
CLOSED SEASON – means that period of time during which the taking of wild animals
protected by Chapters 1531 and 1533 of the Ohio Revised Code is prohibited.
CROSSBOW – means a device for propelling an arrow by means of traverse limbs and a string,
mounted on a stock at least twenty-five inches in length, and having a working safety.
FURBEARING ANIMALS – include minks, weasels, raccoons, skunks, opossums, muskrats,
fox, beavers, badgers, otters, coyotes, and bobcats.
GAME BIRDS – include ringneck pheasants, bobwhite quail, ruffed grouse, sharp-tailed grouse,
pinnated grouse, wild turkey, Hungarian partridge, Chukar partridge, woodcocks, crows, black-
breasted plover, golden plover, Wilson’s snipe or jacksnipe, greater and lesser yellowlegs, rail,
coots, gallinules, duck, geese, mourning doves, and brant.
GAME QUADRUPEDS – include cottontail rabbits, chipmunks, flying squirrels, gray squirrels,
black squirrels, fox squirrels, red squirrels, groundhogs, whitetail deer, wild boar, and black
bears.
HUNTING – means pursuing, shooting, killing, following after or on the trail of, lying in wait
for, shooting at, or wounding wild birds or wild quadrupeds while employing any device
commonly used to kill or wound wild birds or wild quadrupeds whether such acts result in such
killing or wounding or not. It includes every attempt to kill or wound and every act of assistance
to any other person in killing or wounding or attempting to kill or wound wild birds or wild
quadrupeds.
LONGBOW or BOW – means a device for propelling an arrow by means of limbs, and a string
which is hand held, hand drawn, and held in a drawn position by hand or a hand held mechanical
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014                                                         13


release. This would include compound and recurve bows.
MIGRATORY GAME BIRDS – are waterfowl, rails, mourning doves, and shorebirds.
NONGAME BIRDS – include all other wild birds not included and defined as game birds.
PLUGGED SHOTGUN – means a shotgun capable of holding more than three shells, that is
plugged with a one-piece filler which limits the capacity of the gun to three shells. The filler
must be such that it cannot be removed without disassembling the gun.
PROTECTED SPECIES – including yellowlegs, plover, snowshoe hares, bears, badgers,
bobcat, and nongame birds may not be hunted or taken at any time; Hungarian partridge may not
be taken except from a shooting preserve, dog training area, or field trial.
TRAPPING – means securing or attempting to secure possession of a wild bird or wild
quadruped by means of setting, placing, drawing, or using any device that is designed to close
upon, hold fast, confine, or otherwise capture a wild bird or wild quadruped whether such means
result in such capturing or not. It includes every act of assistance to any other person in capturing
wild birds or wild quadrupeds by means of such device whether such means result in such
capturing or not.
WILD ANIMALS – include mollusks, crustaceans, aquatic insects, fish, reptiles, amphibians,
wild birds, wild quadrupeds, and all other wild mammals.
2923.15 ORC – No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse, shall carry
or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
2923.16 and 1547.69 ORC – No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless it is unloaded, and is carried in one of the following ways:
(1) In a closed package, box, or case;
(2) In a compartment which can be reached only by leaving the vehicle;
(3) In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the purpose;
(4) If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured from the muzzle to the part of
the stock furthest from the muzzle, and if the barrel is at least 18 inches in length in plain sight
with the action open or the firearm stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the action
will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
(5) As used in this section, “unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a percussion
cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, that the firearm is uncapped, or that the priming
charge is removed from the pan.
 14                          WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014


                                  Attachment 3
                          APPROVED HUNTING AREAS

Figure A3.1. Approved Hunting Areas
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014                 15


                                          Attachment 4
                     FISHING LIMITS ON LANDLOCKED WATERS

Table A4.1. Catch and Possession

          SPECIES                     LIMITS

Walleye                       2

Trout                         4

Bass (Largemouth &
Smallmouth)                   4

White Bass
                              4

Catfish (Channel, Blue &
Shovelhead)                   4


Bullhead (Black & Brown)      10

Mixed Panfish (Bluegill,
Rock Bass, Perch, Sunfish     Unlimited
& Crappie
Forage Fish (Carp, Gizzard,
                              Unlimited
Shad
& Suckers)
 16                          WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI32-7064 27 OCTOBER 2014


                                   Attachment 5
      APPROPRIATE CONTACTS FOR NATURAL RESOURCES ON WPAFB

Figure A5.1. Appropriate Contacts for Natural Resources On WPAFB

WPAFB Natural Resources Program Manager           937-257-4857

WPAFB General Conservation                        937-257-5535

WPAFB Rod & Gun Club                              937-257-3935

WPAFB Outdoor Recreation                          937-257-9889

WPAFB Security Forces Game Warden                  937-257-6516
