BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         WRIGHT PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE                                 INSTRUCTION 44-101

                                                                                  17 MAY 2012

                                                                                       Medical

                                                               BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS


             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 88 AMDS/SGPM                                                     Certified by: 88 MDG/CC
                                                                      (Col Stephen W. Higgins)
Supersedes: WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI                                                        Pages: 11
            44-101, 24 May 2007


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive 44-1, Medical Operations, and
establishes standardized procedures for education and training programs, developing exposure
control plans, addresses cleanup procedures for small and large potentially infectious material
spills, and medical management for workers on Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (AFB) who
have potential exposure to blood and body fluids in the course of their assigned duties. It
applies, but is not limited to the following personnel: Medical Group, Fire Department, Law
Enforcement, Office of Special Investigations (OSI), Environmental Management, Life Guard,
and personnel who provide first aid as a collateral duty, such as, Child Development personnel,
Home Day Care providers, Youth Center staff and Exterior/Interior Electric shop personnel. In
certain emergency conditions, sections of this instruction could apply to other personnel. The
use of a name of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity, or service in this
publication does not imply endorsement by the Air Force. This publication does not apply to the
Air National Guard or the Air Force Reserve Center (ANG/AFRC) units. Refer recommended
changes and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR)
using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from
the field through the appropriate functional’s chain of command. Ensure that all records created
as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN
33-363, Management of Records, and disposed in accordance with the Air Force Records
Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
The use of name or mark of any specific manufacturer, commercial product, commodity or
service in this publication does not imply endorsement from the Air Force.
 2                                         WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI44-101 17 MAY 2012


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

WRIGHTPATTERSONAFB 44-101, Bloodborne Pathogens, is being updated to address an
update to the approved contract with SERVPRO, who units may procure to conduct the clean-up
of large indoor spills.
1. Clean Up and Disposal Procedures Of Spills Of Blood Or Potentially Infectious
Materials: Contact Public Health (PH) at 255-2515 directly or through the 88th Medical Group
Emergency Department (257-3203) for any bloodborne spill that occurs on Wright-Patterson
AFB. Spills are generally categorized into two types; those that are comprised of a small amount
of material and can be handled by Wright-Patterson AFB personnel with instruction on cleanup
procedures, and those spills that consist of a large quantity of material and thus necessitate
professional cleanup by a contractor. Most spills that occur out-of-doors and can be properly
cleaned up by Wright-Patterson AFB personnel, see paragraph 1.3. When contacted, PH will
determine the type of spill and instruct on the proper cleanup techniques.
     1.1. Small indoor spills: PH recommends the following procedures for the cleanup of
     spilled blood or potentially infectious materials, as defined in Attachment 3, that occur
     inside of buildings on a non-absorbent surface. The procedures are designed for the cleanup
     of small spills typically occurring under non-emergency situations and can be performed by
     anyone who voluntarily cleans up the spill. For information and consultative assistance
     contact PH at 255-2515, or the Emergency Department at 257-3203.
        1.1.1. Cleanup materials needed: Household bleach, one-gallon bucket or larger, mop or
        towels and rags, and impervious gloves (such as those used for dishwashing). Enclose all
        necessary materials in a five gallon bucket. If spill occurs on plush surfaces (carpets,
        chairs, etc.), contact PH for cleaning solution alternatives.
        1.1.2. Limit access to spill area: Prevent contamination or spread of contamination by
        not allowing entry into the spill area.
        1.1.3. Don Personal Protective Equipment (PPE): At a minimum, water impervious
        gloves should be worn by individuals cleaning the spill. Other PPE considerations
        include outerwear, such as an apron or Tyvek suit, and/or goggles for eye protection.
        1.1.4. Prepare cleaning solution and clean spill: Absorb and remove all traces of the
        spill with paper towels or other acceptable materials (Micro-encapsulation absorbent).
        Mix solution of 1 and 2/3 cup (13 fluid ounces) of bleach with 1 gallon of water in bucket
        to produce a 1:10 solution. Mop up area until clean, allowing a 30 minute contact time of
        the contaminated area with the solution. Then rinse the area with fresh, clean water. Be
        careful not to splash yourself or anyone in the area. To prevent slipping, keep access to
        area limited until spill site is dry.
        1.1.5. Dispose of the contaminated bleach or water solution by pouring it down a sink,
        toilet, or sanitary drain. Be careful to prevent splashing.
        1.1.6. Should items, such as paper towels, become soiled with blood or potentially
        infectious materials the following guidelines should be followed: 1) Discard items lightly
        soiled with blood/potentially infectious materials as solid waste (trash). Lightly soiled is
        defined as an item that has only a small area that is soiled or has a very minimal amount
        of contamination. 2) Items moderately or heavily soiled with blood/potentially infectious
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI44-101 17 MAY 2012                                                          3


     materials shall be handled as infectious waste by placing in a leak-proof bag, double
     bagged, and marked or labeled as "INFECTIOUS WASTE," alternatively use a red
     plastic “Biohazard Bag”. Contact 88ABW/CEAN at 257-7152 for proper disposal.
     1.1.7. Should anyone get exposed to blood/potentially infectious materials, immediately
     wash exposed area with soap and water or flush eyes with clean water and report
     immediately to the 88 MDG Emergency Department. Also, if possible take the source
     patient or source patient information to the Emergency Room.
  1.2. Large indoor spills: A large spill is defined as a volume that would require more than
  one person, large amounts of decontamination equipment and material, and/or contamination
  of objects that would prove difficult to decontaminate, i.e., rugs, mattresses, furniture,
  electronic gear. In this case, the building facility manager should contact PH at (255-2515)
  either directly or through the 88th Medical Group Emergency Department (257-3203). PH
  will provide the facility manager or designee the name of an approved contractor to conduct
  the cleanup. The facility manager is responsible for ensuring the contractor is notified and
  conducts the cleanup.
     1.2.1. Waste generated by EMS emergency response: Only Emergency Medical Service
     (EMS) personnel, utilizing an EMS vehicle, are authorized to transport medical waste
     generated during the assistance of a patient. Waste from a cleanup site will be
     transported and disposed of by the contractor or approved Air Force personnel.
  1.3. Outdoor spills:
     1.3.1. Cleanup materials needed: Source of water, hose, sprayer, one-gallon bucket or
     larger, and impervious gloves (such as those used for dishwashing).
     1.3.2. Limit access to spill area. Prevent contamination or the spread of contamination
     by not allowing entry into the spill area.
     1.3.3. Put on gloves, face/eye protection, and apron/gown as appropriate. Apply a low-
     pressure stream of water to the soiled area until the blood or body fluids are visibly
     washed away, while being careful to prevent splashing of yourself or anyone in the area.
     1.3.4. Should items, such as paper towels, become soiled with blood or potentially
     infectious materials the following guidelines should be followed: 1) Discard items lightly
     soiled with blood/potentially infectious materials as solid waste (trash). Lightly soiled is
     defined as an item that has only a small area that is soiled or has a very minimal amount
     of contamination. 2) Items moderately or heavily soiled with blood/potentially infectious
     materials shall be handled as infectious waste by placing in a leak-proof bag, double
     bagged, and marked or labeled as "INFECTIOUS WASTE," alternatively use a red
     plastic “Biohazard Bag”. Contact 88ABW/CEV at 257-5531 for proper disposal.
         1.3.4.1. Emergency response: Only Emergency Medical Services (EMS) personnel,
         utilizing an EMS vehicle, are authorized to transport medical waste generated during
         the assistance of a patient. Waste from a cleanup will be transported and disposed of
         by the contractor or approved Air Force personnel.
     1.3.5. Should anyone get exposed to blood or potentially infectious materials,
     immediately wash exposed area with soap and water and report immediately to 88 MDG
 4                                          WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI44-101 17 MAY 2012


        Emergency Room. If possible, the source of the potentially infectious material or source
        information should be taken to the Emergency Room.
     1.4. Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) Contractor. PH personnel will instruct the
     individual in charge of the unit on how to contact the infectious materials removal contractor.
     Attached is the Authorization Call Letter (see attachment 1) outlining personnel by position
     who have the authority to make a call against the BPA. All transactions for this BPA occur
     using the facility’s or unit’s Government Purchase Card (GPC) or non-credit card payment.
     All spills that occur over the micro purchase threshold ($2.5K) can be paid for by obtaining a
     one-time extension of the GPC limit up to $25K. This can be done by contacting a GPC
     representative. End of fiscal year funding cannot delay spill cleanup. A potentially
     infectious material spill is a contingency that must be cleaned up and will be paid for
     regardless of budgets at the time. Address these issues through the unit’s chain of command,
     coordinating with base contracting. The contracting Section Chief can be reached at
     telephone number (937) 522-4594.
2. Supervisors of all base personnel who are exposed to bloodborne pathogens will:
     2.1. Ensure individual exposed and the source (if possible) of the blood or body fluids report
     immediately to 88 MDG Emergency Room.
     2.2. Ensure involved individuals report to PH at the earliest opportunity during normal duty
     hours for follow-up on all exposures until all follow-ups are completed in accordance with
     Occupational Safety and Health Administration guidelines.
3. Supervisors of units (fire department, law enforcement, OSI, and life guard personnel)
identified by PH as requiring Hepatitis B vaccination will:
     3.1. Ensure all applicable employees report to the PH/Employee Health office at the WMPC.
     Personnel will then go to the Immunizations section for vaccination and to document the
     vaccine in their shot record.
     3.2. Develop a tracking system to ensure all members choosing to accept the Hepatitis B
     vaccination begin the series; additionally, develop a system to follow-up individuals until all
     three vaccinations of the series are completed.
     3.3. Provide initial bloodborne pathogen training for all new arrivals. Accomplish this
     training within 10 working days and annually thereafter. Contact PH at 255-2515 if any
     assistance is needed with training.
     3.4. Document all bloodborne pathogen training on the individuals AF Form 55, Employee
     Safety and Health Record, in Block V. This documentation is required for initial and annual
     training.
     3.5. Ensure each unit has a written comprehensive Bloodborne Pathogen Exposure Control
     Plan (see sample plan at Attachment 3) that is reviewed and updated annually. All units
     must submit an Exposure Control Plan to PH for review and approval prior to adopting it.
     PH will keep a copy file from each unit; therefore, send copies to 88
     AMDS/SGPM/Occupational Health.
     3.6. Ensure adequate Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE) is available for workers to use
     and enforce the wear of PPE during procedures where there is potential exposure to blood or
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI44-101 17 MAY 2012                                                             5


   body fluids. PPE depends on the potential exposure, and may include gloves, resuscitation
   devices, masks, goggles, face shields, rubber aprons, etc.
       3.6.1. Enforce the wearing of PPE during procedures in which there is potential exposure
       to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials. Immediately address
       noncompliance of workers to policies and directives of this program through appropriate
       administrative procedures. Document these administrative actions on AF Form 55 in the
       comments section. This policy is established to protect the worker’s health and the
       government.
4. Evaluate worker’s duty performance during an exposure incident. Note: If a worker is
actually EXPOSED to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials in the course
of their duties, (i.e. a needle puncture wound, getting cut with a contaminated object such as
glass, or having blood splash on the skin or mucous membranes of the eyes, nose, or mouth),
immediately wash the affected area and flush the eyes if involved. The supervisor should
immediately send the exposed worker and, if possible, the source individual or source
information to 88 MDG Emergency Room. The physician evaluating the patient in the
Emergency Room will refer him or her to PH for follow-up.
5. Supervisors of units that have personnel who provide first aid as a collateral duty will:
   5.1. Provide annual training to Child Development Center employees, Home Day Care
   providers, Youth Center staff, Exterior/Interior Electric Shop personnel. Providing first aid
   doesn’t constitute establishing a Bloodborne Pathogen Program for the unit.
   5.2. Document all bloodborne pathogen training on the individual’s AF Form 55. This
   documentation is required for initial and annual training.
   5.3. Ensure adequate PPE is available for workers to use and enforce the wear of PPE during
   procedures (small blood or body fluid spill) where there is potential exposure to blood and
   body fluids. PPE depends on the potential exposure, and may include gloves, resuscitation
   devices, masks, goggles, face shields, rubber aprons, etc. See Attachment 2 for further
   guidance on proper PPE.
6. The 88th Medical Group will provide:
   6.1. Medical consultation for eligible workers exposed to blood, body fluids, or other
   potentially infectious materials in the course of their duties. Medical consultation and
   coordination for potentially exposed workers includes:
       6.1.1. Immunizations to protect authorized workers (covered by an Exposure Control
       Plan) against bloodborne pathogens and documentation of those immunizations.
       6.1.2. Medical follow-up, treatment, and documentation for personnel exposed to blood,
       body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials in the course of their duties on base.
       6.1.3. Written opinions for eligible beneficiaries exposed to blood, body fluids, or other
       potentially infectious materials.
   6.2. Medical education, as required, to workers potentially exposed to infectious materials in
   the routine course of their duties. This educational service is on a consultant basis to
   organization supervisors, who have primary responsibility for training.
6                                         WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI44-101 17 MAY 2012


    6.3. Initial training to organization supervisors, if required, on proper techniques and
    prevention of exposure to blood, body fluids, and other potentially infectious materials.
    6.4. PH review and approval of Exposure Control Plans and educational programs developed
    for workers potentially exposed to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious
    materials in the course of their duties.
    6.5. PH technical advice and supervisory assistance on:
       6.5.1. The types of personal protective equipment needed to protect workers from
       exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
       6.5.2. Consultation to units for decontamination of surfaces contaminated with blood,
       body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials.
    6.6. An infectious disease physician consultant who will evaluate exposure incidents.
    6.7. A PH representative available to answer questions employees might have on exposure
    incidents, provide guidance to contractors on cleanup, and provide list of approved
    contractors to facilities for initiating cleanup.




                                            AMANDA W. GLADNEY, Colonel, USAF
                                            Commander
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI44-101 17 MAY 2012                                                            7


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
29 CFR Part 1910.1030, Occupational Exposure to Bloodborne Pathogens; Final Rule
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 44-1, Medical Operations, 1 September 1999
Ohio Administrative Code Rule 3745-27-30 and 3745-27-31, Infectious Waste Regulations
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record, 5 August 2011
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009

Abbreviations and Acronyms
OSHA—Occupational Safety and Health Administration

Terms
Contaminated—The presence or reasonably anticipated presence of blood or other potentially
infectious materials on an item or surface.
Exposure Control Plan—A plan that identifies and documents the tasks, procedures, and job
classifications covering instances where there is exposure to blood or other potentially infectious
materials.
Bloodborne Pathogens—Human disease causing agents that are usually spread from one person
to another through blood or body fluids. Examples include Hepatitis B Virus and Human
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV).
Potentially Infectious Materials—Human blood, semen, vaginal secretions, and any body fluid
that is visibly contaminated with blood. This does not normally apply to vomitus, urine, or stool,
unless there is visible blood.
Potential Exposure—Eye, mouth, other mucous membrane, non-intact skin, or parenteral
contact with blood or certain body fluids.
Standard Precautions—"Standard precautions" are infection control approaches which require
all blood and body fluids to be treated as if they are infected with bloodborne pathogens.
 8                                        WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI44-101 17 MAY 2012


                                         Attachment 2
                      MEMORANDUM FOR SERVPRO OF COLUMBUS

Figure A2.1. Memorandum for SERVPRO of Columbus

MEMORANDUM FOR: HECO Services dba ServPro
                7440 Pingue Dr
                Columbus, OH 43085-1741
                614-888-5700
FROM: ASC/PKOAB
      1940 Allbrook Dr, Rm 109
      Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433

SUBJECT: Blanket Purchase Agreement Users, FA8601-12-A-0020

1. In accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation Part 13.303-3 (a)(4), personnel in the
following positions are authorized to place calls up to $25,000 within the terms and conditions of
subject BPA provided they are current BPA cardholders:

       a. Building Facility Managers at Wright Patterson AFB

       b. Organizational/Unit Orderly Room Administrators at Wright Patterson AFB

2. It is incumbent upon HECO to ensure persons who are placing calls are authorized to do and
purchase card holders. Individuals other than those listed above shall not be permitted to place
calls unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer. Questions concerning this letter
should be addressed to Mohamed Hussein at mohamed.hussein@wpafb.af.mil or 937-672-4594.



____//signed//______________________                                ______12 Jan 2012____
Christopher Hampton                                                 DATE
Contracting Officer
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI44-101 17 MAY 2012                                                        9


                                       Attachment 3
                       TEMPLATE FOR EXPOSURE CONTROL

                                       (TEMPLATE)
                    EXPOSURE CONTROL PLAN FOR (Unit Name)
                       WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
A3.1. Exposure Determination:
   A3.1.1. List of job classifications where all employees have potential exposure to
   bloodborne pathogens.
   A3.1.2. List of job classification where some employees have potential exposure to
   bloodborne pathogens.
   A3.1.3. List of tasks and procedures in which potential occupational exposure to bloodborne
   pathogens occurs for job classifications listed in paragraph A3.1.1, of this plan.
A3.2. Exposure Control Plan Elements:
   A3.2.1. Standard Precautions. The term “Standard Precautions” refers to an infectious
   disease control process intended to prevent exposures to workers from bloodborne pathogens
   (blood and body fluids, such as, semen, vaginal fluids, blood stained feces, etc.).
      A3.2.1.1. All Victims and Victim Specimens. Considered to be potentially infected with
      a bloodborne disease and therefore treated the same.
      A3.2.1.2. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Includes, but is not limited to, gloves,
      face shields, masks, gowns, resuscitation devices, etc… and is provided by the
      organization and readily available to all workers who may be potentially exposed to
      blood or body fluids. The wear of PPE is mandatory in all instances when exposure to
      blood or body fluids is anticipated.
   A3.2.2. Work Practice Controls. Controls that reduce the likelihood of exposure or injury
   are: hand washing, handling of contaminated needles, sharp instruments, or other
   contaminated articles, and equipment and surface decontamination.
      A3.2.2.1. Hand Washing. It is essential for personnel to wash their hands with soap and
      water after exposure to blood or other infectious materials. In areas where hand washing
      facilities are not available, use antiseptic hand cleaners. However, wash hands with soap
      and running water as soon as feasible. As a minimum, wash hands after coming in
      contact with blood or other potentially infectious materials, eating, sneezing, using the
      restroom, touching areas of broken skin (cuts), touching objects that could have
      contamination of blood or body fluids, after any situation in which germs come in contact
      with the hands, and after removal of gloves or other PPE.
      A3.2.2.2. Safe Handling of Contaminated Needles, Sharp Instruments, or Contaminated
      Articles. Workers should be aware of the occupational health hazards concerning the
      handling and disposing of needles, sharp instruments, or other contaminated articles.
      Place emphasis on the minimal handling of these items. Do not pick up by hand sharp
      instruments, broken glass, needle/syringe units, or other sharp objects contaminated with
10                                      WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI44-101 17 MAY 2012


     blood, body fluids, or infectious materials. Pick up contaminated objects using tongs,
     forceps, a broom and dust pan, or some other method which does not require an
     individual to come in direct contact with the object. Once picked up, place the
     contaminated objects into a puncture-resistant leak-proof container. Reference
     paragraph 1, of this instruction (WPAFBI 44-101) for specific cleanup and disposal
     guidelines.
     A3.2.2.3. Equipment and Surface Decontamination.              At a minimum, clean the
     contaminated surfaces by absorbing the spilled material, cleaning the spill area with a
     detergent and rinsing it, and disinfecting the spill area with household bleach (Clorox).
     Dispose of fluids in the sanitary sewer system (i.e. toilet, sink, or sanitary drain). Place
     contaminated paper products used in the cleanup operation in a biohazard bag and
     dispose of as in paragraph A3.2.2.2. If the area cannot be decontaminated in this
     fashion, contact PH at 255-2515 for additional advice.
  A3.2.3. Hepatitis B Immunization:
     A3.2.3.1. Offer individuals whose duties involve potential exposure to blood, body
     fluids, or other potentially infectious materials, free of charge, immunizations to protect
     them from Hepatitis B prior to employment. The employee may decline vaccination by
     signing a Statement of Declination. Employees who decline immunization may at a later
     date request to start the Hepatitis B series if they change their mind. The Immunization
     Clinic at the 88 MDG will administer the Hepatitis B vaccine. The vaccine is given in a
     series of three injections at 1, 30, and 180 days. NOTE: This applies to Medical
     Personnel, Fire Department, Law Enforcement, Environmental Management, OSI, Life
     Guards, sewer workers and life support personnel.
     A3.2.3.2. Personnel who provide First Aid as a collateral duty DO NOT require the
     Hepatitis B immunizations.
  A3.2.4. Training:
     A3.2.4.1. Initial and annual training of all employees who have potential exposure to
     blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials as part of their regular job
     (see paragraph A3.1.1, for job listing of those requiring training), will receive
     bloodborne pathogen training prior to assuming duties and within 10 days of assignment
     and annually thereafter. PH will conduct supervisors training.
     A3.2.4.2. Supervisors should conduct training with employees and document the training
     in block V of each employee’s AF Form 55. Document initial training as “Initial
     Bloodborne Pathogen Training” and document annual update training as “Annual
     Bloodborne Pathogen Training.”
  A3.2.5. Evaluation of Exposure Incidents:
     A3.2.5.1. Report immediately to the supervisor any incident which involves potential
     exposure to blood, body fluids, or other potentially infectious materials. Take the
     individual(s) receiving exposure and, if possible, the source of the blood, body fluids, or
     other potentially infectious materials to the 88 MDG Emergency Department for
     evaluation or treatment. After initial evaluation and/or treatment, refer the individual(s)
     to their Primary Care Manager (PCM).
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI44-101 17 MAY 2012                                                   11


     A3.2.5.2. PCM will counsel the individual on risk factors and ensure follow-up testing
     and treatment are completed.
