BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER       WRIGHT-PATTERSON AFB INSTRUCTION
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE                            90-301

                                                                                  5 JUNE 2013

                                                                          Special Management

                                                              FRAUD, WASTE, AND ABUSE
                                                                 PREVENTION PROGRAM

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasibility restrictions on this publication

OPR: 88 ABW/IG                                                         Certified by: 88 ABW/IG
                                                                   (Lt Col Sidney W. Goehring)
                                                                                        Pages: 4


This instruction implements Air Force Instruction (AFI) 90-301, Inspector General Complaints
Resolution, 23 August 2011, Chapter 11, para 11.6., Commander FWA Program
Responsibilities. It establishes responsibilities and procedures for administering a proactive
Fraud, Waste, and Abuse (FWA) Program across the 88th Air Base Wing (ABW) at Wright-
Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB) OH. This publication does not apply to the Air Force
Reserve Command (AFRC) or Air National Guard (ANG) units. Refer recommended changes
and questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847s from the field
through the appropriate functional’ s chain of command. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air
Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW Air Force
Records Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS).

1. Responsibility: This instruction is applicable to all personnel assigned/attached to units
under the 88th Air Base Wing (ABW). Commanders and their unit Fraud, Waste, and Abuse
(FWA) Program Monitors will ensure compliance with all provisions of this instruction. All
actions taken will be in accordance with the current AFI 90-301 and in consideration of the most
current SAF/IG Inspector General Guide to Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Awareness.
2. Expectations Of Commanders: Commanders at all levels must actively promote efficient,
effective, and legitimate use of AF resources. Commanders will:
   2.1. Establish a proactive FWA program that systematically reviews operations/processes to
   detect deficiencies, minimize waste, emphasize economy, and identify/correct fraud or abuse.
 2                                          WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI90-301 5 JUNE 2013


     2.2. Designate within the organization, down to the Squadron level, FWA Program Monitors
     to regularly assess FWA climate and elevate issues for command review and action.
     2.3. Educate all assigned personnel on what constitutes fraud, waste, and abuse with an
     emphasis on process improvement, adherence to AF core values, and prompt reporting of
     suspected violations.
     2.4. Encourage personnel to elevate and report FWA concerns to command and supervision.
     2.5. Maintain open communication channels through development of an organizational
     culture that discourages reprisal or retaliation against any individual making a FWA
     disclosure.
3. Expectations of FWA Program Monitors
     3.1. Support Commanders and Directors in their responsibilities.
     3.2. Implement and sustain value-added program initiatives that promote compliance and
     efficiency, detect discrepancies, and correct behavior.
     3.3. Educate personnel on FWA prevention and reporting (e.g. distributing FWA focus
     topics, briefing at CC’s Calls or staff meetings, highlighting FWA articles in the base
     newspaper, etc.)
     3.4. Document and report compliance of FWA prevention, detection, and correction
     measures within the Self-Assessment Program (SAP) per AFI 90-201, Air Force Inspection
     System. The following FWA Program checklist items should be incorporated into the
     Commander Programs unit Self-Assessment Checklists (SACs), with state of compliance
     reviewed/documented at least annually (or more often if directed by the CC):
        3.4.1. Designate unit FWA Program Monitors at the Wing, Group, and Squadron levels.
        3.4.2. Educate unit personnel on FWA prevention and reporting at least annually.
        3.4.3. Establish a FWA prevention and detection program to correct behavior and
        discrepancies at the command level.
4. Suggestions For An Active FWA Prevention Program: The following suggestions for an
active FWA Program come from the SAF/IG Inspector General Guide to Fraud, Waste, or
Abuse Awareness.
     4.1. Follow standard procedures and controls: explain reasons and avoid deviations.
     4.2. Identify sensitive and vulnerable areas (vulnerabilities identified in the Guide by
     functional mission areas.)
     4.3. Use trend reports to monitor operations: be alert to sudden shifts and persistent
     deviations (examples: sudden increase in expenditures; persistent loss in supply inventory;
     sudden shift in ability to fulfill mission; sudden increase in absenteeism or perceived drop in
     morale).
     4.4. Use the Manager’s Internal Control Program (MICP) processes.
     4.5. Use independent sources for evaluation and reporting.
     4.6. Take appropriate corrective actions in response to inspection and audit deficiencies.
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI90-301 5 JUNE 2013                                                      3


  4.7. Implement administrative and judicial actions (publicize appropriately). The lack of
  administrative and judicial action can jeopardize a commander’s ability to prevent future
  FWA actions.
  4.8. Oversee accountability for loss, damage, destruction of GOV property. Commanders
  are responsible for GOV and personal property under their control according to AFMAN 23-
  220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property.
  4.9. Apply a “Watchful Eye” as a deterrent: listen, observe, inquire, and investigate.




                                           CASSIE B. BARLOW, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 4                                      WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI90-301 5 JUNE 2013


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 90-301, Inspector General Complaints Resolution, 23 August 2011
AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force Property, 1 July 1996
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
SAF/IG Inspector General Guide to Fraud, Waste, or Abuse Awareness, February 2012
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
