BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER       WRIGHT-PATTERSON AFB INSTRUCTION
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE                            48-101

                                                                              14 APRIL 2011
                                                                Certified Current 5 April 2013
                                                                          Aerospace Medicine

                                                                   ANIMAL CONTROL AND
                                                                    DISEASE PREVENTION

             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
               www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.

OPR: 88 MSG/ SVBV                                                     Certified by: FSS-FSCV
                                                                    (CPT Jessica M. Connolly)
Supersedes:WPAFBI48-101, 18 August 2009                                              Pages: 10


This instruction implements AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, and Army Regulation
40-905, SECNAVINST 6401.1A, ARI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services. This instruction
establishes local policy and prescribes procedures concerning the possession and control of
animals at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (WPAFB), as well as measures necessary to protect
the health and safety of personnel and animals on this base. The privilege of maintaining a
privately owned animal on this base is dependent on the animal's continuing ability to live
harmoniously within the military community. The base commander may withdraw this privilege
if the owner fails to comply with this instruction. This instruction requires collecting and
maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. 3013,
Secretary of the Army; Army Regulation 40-905, Veterinary Health Services; and E.O. 9397
(SSN). System of records notice A0040-905 DASG applies. Each form that is subject to the
provisions of AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, required by this publication, contains a Privacy
Act Statement, either incorporated in the body of the document or in a separate statement
accompanying each document. Refer recommended changes and questions about this publication
to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF Form 847, Recommendation for
Change of Publication; route AF IMT 847s from the field through the appropriate functional’s
chain of command. This publication does not apply to the Air National Guard or the Air Force
Reserve Center (ANG/AFRC) units. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN33-363, Management
of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule
(RDS) located at https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm
 2                                                               WPAFBI48-101 14 APRIL 2011


SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This instruction has several revisions and should be reviewed completely.
1. Responsibilities:
     1.1. Pet owners occupying government quarters or leasing quarters from the Properties of
     Wright-Field are required to become familiar and comply with this instruction.
     1.2. The Chief, Veterinary Services, Veterinary Treatment Facility (VTF), Building 1425,
     directs all animal health programs on base through the Base Commander.
     1.3. Base Civil Engineering takes action to control insect and arthropod vectors capable of
     transmitting diseases. Injured wild animals will be captured and taken to the VTF for
     treatment or humane euthanasia. Additionally, Base Civil Engineering is responsible for
     retrieving and disposing of dead animals with the exception of family pets. No cat, dog,
     ferret, bat, fox, raccoon, skunk, or any other rabies disease reservoirs found dead on base will
     be disposed of without prior consent of the Chief of Veterinary Services, with the exception
     of animal deaths caused by traffic accidents.
     1.4. The Air Force Public Health Office coordinates all animal bite reporting procedures
     with the Chief of Veterinary Services to include monitoring quarantine actions.
     1.5. The Family Housing Management Branch is responsible for providing a copy of this
     instruction to anyone occupying government quarters or leasing quarters from the Properties
     of Wright-Field.
2. Terms Explained:
     2.1. Pet Animal. In this instruction, a pet (companion) animal is defined as any canine,
     feline, (ferrets are no longer acceptable in base housing as per AFI 32-6001) bird, fish,
     domesticated rabbit, or caged pet (hamster, gerbil, rat, mouse, guinea pig, etc.) of commonly
     acceptable size which can be properly and adequately maintained, housed and cared for on
     base. Animals not included in this definition, and thus not permitted to be housed on base,
     include: horses, ferrets, general farm animals, including pot-bellied pigs, and ALL wild
     animals (skunks, raccoons, nonhuman primates, foxes, squirrels, coyotes, wolves, wolf-
     hybrids, etc.). Any animal not specifically mentioned above will be kept only at the
     discretion of the Chief of Veterinary Services.
     2.2. Rabies Suspect. Any wild or domesticated animal implicated in the bite or scratch of a
     human, regardless of vaccine status.
2.3. Nuisance. Any animal that unreasonably annoys humans, endangers the life or health of
other persons or animals, or substantially interferes with the rights of citizens to the enjoyment of
life or property.
3. Procedures:
     3.1. Base and County Registration, Immunization, and Microchipping:
        3.1.1. All dogs and cats maintained on base will be registered with the VTF within 14
        days of arrival on base or after acquisition. All personnel occupying government quarters
        or leasing quarters from the Properties of Wright-Field are limited to two pets. However,
        caged small animals, caged birds, and fish are excluded from this limit, unless numbers
WPAFBI48-101 14 APRIL 2011                                                                    3


     are unreasonable and lead to disruption of neighbors or destruction of property.
     Personnel can obtain a signed waiver to the two pet limitations from the Chief, Housing
     Management Branch for the following: two indoor cats and one dog or one indoor cat and
     two dogs. There are absolutely no other exceptions to this policy.
     3.1.2. Pet animals belonging to the guest of military or civilian personnel on base are not
     required to be registered, although they must be able to provide proof of vaccinations.
     Animals of guests are still the responsibility of the guest's sponsor. The sponsor will
     make sure the animal complies with this instruction and does not present a threat to the
     health and safety of other persons or animals on base.
     3.1.3. Written documentation of rabies vaccination (DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination
     Certificate/NASPHV Form 51, Rabies Vaccination Certificate, Attachment 2, or its
     equivalent) is required and must be presented at the time of registration. If the
     vaccination status is not current or the animal is too young, an appointment will be made
     with the VTF or an off-base civilian veterinarian to have the required vaccinations
     administered. Pet registration (and subsequently the ability to buy products from the
     veterinary treatment facility) expires when the rabies vaccination expires. It is the
     responsibility of the owner to know when vaccinations expire.
     3.1.4. Multivalent distemper vaccines are strongly recommended for both dogs and cats
     to provide maximum protection against viral and bacterial diseases. The need for
     additional vaccines can be determined on a case-by-case basis.
     3.1.5. Microchipping is MANDATORY for all dogs and cats residing on base to include
     the Properties of Wright-Field. At the time of registration, the pet owner must present
     proof of microchipping. Any animals that have not yet been microchipped need to make
     an appointment to have this service performed either by the WPAFB veterinary treatment
     facility or an off-base civilian veterinarian. Microchipping is essential to allow lost
     animals to be returned to their owners, and to prevent the unlawful abandonment of
     animals on base. Owners are responsible for assuring that the contact information
     associated with the microchip is kept accurate.
     3.1.6. Registration with Greene County Animal Control is MANDATORY for all dogs
     and cats residing on base to include the Properties of Wright-Field. At the time of
     registration, the pet owner must present proof of county registration. Any dogs that have
     not yet been registered will not be seen by the WPAFB veterinary treatment facility. New
     pets not registered with Greene County will be seen once to receive the veterinary care
     necessary in order to register with the county. Registration is essential to allow lost
     animals to be returned to their owners, and to prevent the unlawful abandonment of
     animals on base. Owners are responsible for assuring that the contact information
     associated with the registration is kept accurate.
  3.2. Care and Control of the Animal. The privilege of pet ownership on base is contingent
  on the pet owner’s ability to adhere to the following conditions:
     3.2.1. Owners must ensure that their animals are adequately housed, fed, watered and
     cared for humanely. Cruel or injurious mistreatment, abandonment and/or neglect are
     prohibited. Animals in base housing cannot be permanently housed outdoors. Animals
     temporarily housed outdoors must have access to a shelter. Animals will have access to
4                                                           WPAFBI48-101 14 APRIL 2011


    water at all times, be fed on a daily basis, and be given adequate medical care when
    required. Cost of doing so will be borne by the owner. Complaints of animal abuse will
    be investigated by the Security Forces Squadron, and reported to the Chief of Veterinary
    Services and/ or to the Base Commander if deemed necessary.
    3.2.2. Owners must prevent their animal from becoming a nuisance or menace to other
    persons, animals, or property on base. A "nuisance" is defined as that which causes
    trouble, annoyance (ex. prolonged barking or howling) or causes damage to private or
    public property. All animals will be controlled to prevent them from biting or causing
    injury to people or other animals.
    3.2.3. Owners must ensure when exercising or walking their animal off the owner's
    assigned premises that the animal is leashed at all times. There is no exception to this
    policy. When on the owner's assigned premises, the animal will be kept on a leash or in a
    fenced yard from which they cannot escape. All fencing and fenced areas must be
    inspected and approved in writing by the Director, Family Housing Management Branch.
    3.2.4. Owners must clean up animal waste immediately to prevent a breeding ground for
    flies and disease organisms. This will also protect children from coming into contact with
    fecal material that may contain dangerous parasites. Owners must also prevent their
    animals from causing damage by urinating on shrubs, flowers, or other materials in the
    occupant's area of responsibility or any other government property.
    3.2.5. Owners must ensure female pets in heat are confined, except when exercised on a
    leash and under direct supervision of an adult.
    3.2.6. Owners must make sure their animals wear a collar or harness bearing the current
    rabies tag number. Replacements for lost or stolen tags must be obtained at the VTF, 257-
    6853. Owners must also ensure all dogs are wearing a current Greene or Montgomery
    County Dog Registration Tag.
    3.2.7. Owners must assist in obtaining immediate medical attention for persons bitten,
    scratched or injured by their pet.
    3.2.8. Owners must abide by published quarantine procedures (see paragraph 6.2).
    3.2.9. Owners must properly dispose of their animal when the owner no longer wants it
    by finding a new home or turning the animal over to a humane organization. Willful
    abandonment of pets is strictly prohibited and may result in loss of future privileges of
    pet ownership on base. Disposal of deceased pets is the responsibility of the owner. This
    can include cremation and/or burial in a pet designated cemetery as burial on base
    property is prohibited.
    3.2.10. Owners may not breed animals on base property for sale on or off base. The
    WPAFB veterinary treatment facility will not provide services for animals bred for profit,
    including accidental litters. However, kittens and puppies that will be kept by the
    military sponsor can receive full veterinary services. False claims of ownership will
    result in permanent denial of military veterinary services and possibly disciplinary action.
    3.2.11. Owners must clear through the VTF and obtain the health records of their
    animals upon relocation/reassignment/PCS from WPAFB, transfer or termination of pet
    ownership.
WPAFBI48-101 14 APRIL 2011                                                                       5


       3.2.12. Owners may not permit animals in the following on-base buildings or activities:
           3.2.12.1. Hospital buildings (except the VTF or as part of an official pet therapy
           program).
           3.2.12.2. Food service facilities.
           3.2.12.3. Base Exchange or Commissary facilities.
           3.2.12.4. Recreation Center, clubs and swimming pools.
           3.2.12.5. Theaters.
           3.2.12.6. Barber and beauty shops.
           3.2.12.7. Dormitories (except fish, small caged birds and small caged animals).
           3.2.12.8. Any other place where pet animals may create a nuisance and/or health
           hazard. Guide dogs/assistance dogs accompanying patrons or military working dogs
           in performance of their duties are permitted anywhere their patrons are authorized so
           long as they are under control.
       3.2.13. Failure to obey the above regulations may result in denial of the privilege of
       animal ownership on base (See paragraph 4, Prohibited Acts below).
   3.3. Housing of Animals:
       3.3.1. Animals can be housed inside family quarters only. They cannot be housed in
       dormitories (with the exception of 3.2.12.7), transient quarters or work areas. However,
       caged small animals, caged birds, and fish are excluded from this limit, unless numbers
       are unreasonable and lead to disruption of neighbors or destruction of property.
       Dormitory residents must receive approval from dormitory manager prior to having any
       of the above small animals in there quarters. Out-of-doors housing of pet animals is not
       permitted in base housing. Dogs and cats must be leashed and under the direct
       supervision of an adult when out-of-doors.
           3.3.1.1. Kittyhawk Center. No dogs or cats are permitted to be housed anywhere on
           the grounds at any time.
           3.3.1.2. The Properties at Wright Field, Senior Officer Housing, and the Family
           Camp. Out-of-doors housing of pet animals is not permitted in these areas. The
           animals cannot prevent mail carriers or other workers from performing their duties in
           the housing areas. The owners must assure their pets do not accidentally injure other
           people or animals or become a nuisance to the community. Dogs and cats will not be
           left out-of-doors attached by any means to anything unattended nor housed in garages
           or storage areas.
4. Prohibited Acts. The following incidents are cause for disciplinary action to be taken against
the offender and subsequent denial of the privilege of maintaining pet animals on this base.
   4.1. Leaving any animal unattended in any vehicle parked on base in a manner which
   threatens the life or well-being of the animal.
   4.2. Ill-treating, tormenting, overworking or otherwise abusing an animal.
   4.3. Willfully using any known toxic substances in areas accessible to animals.
 6                                                              WPAFBI48-101 14 APRIL 2011


     4.4. Repeatedly provoking or antagonizing an animal.
     4.5. Failure to discharge the responsibilities of a pet owner as specified in paragraphs 3.1,
     3.2, and 3.3.
     4.6. Disposal of pets (alive or deceased) that have been involved in a human bite or scratch
     incident in the last 10 days.
     4.7. Maintenance of wild animals, as defined in paragraph 2.1.
     4.8. Allowing any animal to bite or in any way cause injury to a human that results in the
     need for medical treatment is grounds for immediate removal of the animal from base and
     denial of authority for maintaining pets in the future. However, an animal may only be
     removed from base under orders of the Base Commander and under direction of the Chief of
     Veterinary Services. This is meant to protect the safety of persons residing on base, yet also
     prevent abuse of the rule by a malicious party over a minor offense.
5. Removal of Animals from Base. Any violation of this instruction is considered grounds for
removal of an animal or animals from the base, even for a first offense. Decision on removal will
depend on the severity of the violation and the owner's willingness to comply with this
instruction. Animals determined to be vicious, dangerous or a nuisance and are reported to the
Base Commander may be required to be removed from the base. Sponsors or leaseholders who
have been personally directed to remove an animal or animals for any violation of this
instruction or whose family member dependent has been directed to remove an animal or
animals, forfeit the privilege of having any other pet during their residence in-base housing.
6. Injuries Caused by Animals. Individuals bitten or scratched by an animal will report to the
Emergency Room, Wright-Patterson Medical Center, for medical treatment. The attending
medical officer is responsible for the treatment of the patient and requesting quarantine of the
animal by Veterinary Services (initiate DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite - Potential Rabies
Exposure).
     6.1. If the incident occurs on base, the pet owner will be located by Veterinary Services and
     the quarantine measures required will be described to them as stated below in paragraph 6.2
     If the animal involved is a stray, the hospital must immediately notify the Operations Branch,
     Security Forces Squadron, for stray animal pickup and enforcement of the quarantine as
     described in the following paragraphs. If the incident occurs off-base, Veterinary Services
     will notify the appropriate Health Department for the county the incident occurred in, so the
     Health Department may ensure proper quarantine measures are initiated.
     6.2. Quarantine Action:
        6.2.1. Any animal kept on base identified as inflicting a bite and/or scratch wound on a
        human must be taken to the VTF for examination as soon as possible, but in no event
        later than 48 hours following the incident. This is to determine whether the animal is
        showing signs consistent with rabies. When the bite/scratch occurs on a weekend or
        holiday, the animal will be taken for examination on the next duty day.
        6.2.2. If, at the time of exam, the animal shows no signs of rabies, the animal inflicting
        the bite will be placed on a 10-day home quarantine and will be a rabies suspect for the
        duration of the quarantine period.
WPAFBI48-101 14 APRIL 2011                                                                      7


       6.2.3. At the initial examination, the veterinarian or veterinary technician will schedule
       the animal for future examination at the end of the 10-day quarantine. Failure to comply
       with home quarantine rules of scheduled examination by the VTF will result in
       mandatory 10-day quarantine at an approved civilian quarantine facility at the owner’s
       expense. Animals with expired rabies vaccinations will be given a rabies vaccination at
       the end of the 10 day quarantine period, at the owner’s expense.
       6.2.4. Any pet animal bitten or scratched by a bat or a wild carnivorous mammal which
       is not available for rabies testing should be regarded as having been exposed to a rabid
       animal. Dogs and cats that are current on their rabies vaccinations should be
       revaccinated immediately and placed on home quarantine for 45 days. If the dog or cat is
       not rabies vaccinated, it should be euthanized and tested for rabies. If the owner is
       unwilling to have this done, the animal should be placed in strict isolation for 6 months.
       Isolation refers to the confinement in an enclosure that precludes direct contact with
       people and other animals. Animals overdue for a booster vaccination need to be
       evaluated on a case-by-case basis by the veterinarian (i.e. severity of exposure, time
       elapsed since last vaccination, number of prior vaccinations, current health status, local
       rabies epidemiology). Any illness in an isolated or confined animal should be reported
       immediately to the Chief of Veterinary Services. If signs suggestive of rabies develop,
       the animal should be euthanized and submitted for testing.
       6.2.5. Military Working Dogs: Military Working Dogs (MWDs) are a special case,
       because their medical history of vaccination is firmly established and documented. In
       addition, chance of exposure to a rabid animal is extremely unlikely because MWDs
       almost never spend time outside their kennels without being under direct supervision by
       their handler. MWDs are also more likely to bite a person because they are trained
       specifically to do so. Therefore, when a MWD bites a suspect in the line of duty, or bites
       its handler during the course of training, it is exempt from the 10 day rabies quarantine.
       If a MWD bites anyone, including a Security Forces handler, while not under command
       to do so (i.e. “un-provoked”), it is subject to a 10 day “working quarantine.” A “working
       quarantine” is defined as quarantine from the general public which still allows for
       training and performance of basic duties. The dog can still perform all duties, as long as
       it is not exposed to the public. For example, the dog could still train one-on-one with its
       handler, but could not perform gate duty, which would expose the dog to the general
       public.
7. Stray Animals. Disposition of stray animals will be IAW local MOU/MOAs as prescribed in
AR 40-905/AFI 48-131, para 2-3.f. Unregistered animals (without tags or microchip) are held
for 3 working days at the shelter, and then, depending on their disposition, are either put up for
adoption or euthanized. Any stray acquired as a result of a bite incident will be held at the
shelter for the 10 day quarantine, and then euthanized. Registered animals (current tags or
microchip) are held for 14 days, and are then either put up for adoption or euthanized.
 8                                                        WPAFBI48-101 14 APRIL 2011




8. Adopted Forms:

DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination Certificate
NASPHV Form 51, Rabies Vaccination Certificate
DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite – Potential Rabies Exposure




                                         AMANDA W. GLADNEY, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander
WPAFBI48-101 14 APRIL 2011                                                            9


                                      Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 32-6001, Pets in Military, Government-Managed and Privatized Family Housing, 24
October 2008
AFI 33-332, Privacy Act Program, 29 January 2004
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medicine Program, 3 October 2005
Army Regulation 40-905, SECNAVINST 6401.1A, ARI 48-131, Veterinary Health Services, 29
August 2006

Abbreviations and Acronyms
VTF—Veterinary Treatment Facility
WPAFB—Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
10                                           WPAFBI48-101 14 APRIL 2011


                              Attachment 2
                    RABIES VACCINATION CERTIFICATE

Figure A2.1. NASPHV Form 51
