BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                    WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AFB                                                       INSTRUCTION 36-810
                                                                                        29 JANUARY 2008
                                                                             Certified Current 13 April 2012
                                                                                                  Personnel

                                                                 DESIGNATION OF BASE-ESSENTIAL
                                                                                    PERSONNEL

                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 88 MSS/DPCZA                                       Certified by: 88 MSS/DPCZ (Mr. Brian Normile)
                                                                                             Pages: 3

This instruction implements and complies with DoD 1400.25-M, Subchapter 610, Hours of Duty. It also
implements and complies with AFI 36-815, Absence and Leave. It contains information needed by super-
visors and organizational commanders of civilian employees designated as base-essential. It explains the
identification and notification of base-essential employees. This instruction defines requirements of
base-essential employees during late arrivals, early dismissals, and base closures. It also details how a
base-essential employee will be charged leave in those situations. Ensure that all records created as a
result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with AFMAN 38-123 (will
convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with the Air Force
Records Disposition Schedule located at https://afrims.amc.af.mil.


1. Identification of Base-Essential Employees.
   1.1. Base-essential employees are individuals required to maintain minimum base operating func-
   tions. These functions may include, but are not limited to, force protection, fire protection, medical
   response, emergency room, command center, AFMC/ASC/88 ABW Battle Staffs, civil engineering,
   hospital patient care, key intelligence personnel (NASIC), dining facility, and flightline support.
   Select employees with these job responsibilities may be designated as base-essential; all employees
   need not be designated.
   1.2. Base-essential employees are designated by their organizational commanders based on recom-
   mendations made by the supervisory structure.
   1.3. The organizational commanders will keep a list of all base-essential employees within their orga-
   nization.

2. Notification of Base-Essential Employees.
   2.1. It is the responsibility of the first level supervisor to inform an employee, in writing, that they are
   designated as base-essential when the employee is first assigned to the position.
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-810 29 JANUARY 2008                                                                2


   2.2. Employees will be reminded annually, in writing, that they encumber a base-essential position by
   the organizational commander. This notification will take place by 31 October of each year.

3. Reporting to Duty During Late Arrivals, Early Dismissals and Base Closures Due to Hazardous
Weather.
   3.1. If a delayed reporting time is announced for base personnel, base-essential employees are still
   expected to report to duty at their regularly scheduled time unless otherwise instructed by their super-
   visor.
   3.2. If Wright-Patterson Air Force Base is initially open but subsequently closes due to hazardous
   weather, base-essential personnel are not released early by being granted administrative leave.
   Employees who are already in a leave status and/or are scheduled to be in a leave status during the
   period of early dismissal that day continue to be charged leave.
   3.3. In the event that the base is closed due to hazardous weather, base-essential employees should
   report at the times of their regularly scheduled shifts unless otherwise instructed by their supervisor.
      3.3.1. Base-essential employees who are in an approved leave status for their entire shift are
      excused without charge to leave when the base is closed due to hazardous weather, providing they
      were in a pay status either the scheduled duty day preceding or the scheduled duty day following
      the day of excused absence and their supervisor does not require them to report for duty.
      3.3.2. Base-essential employees who are scheduled to be in a leave status for part of their shift are
      expected to report for that period of duty time for which leave was not approved. These employees
      will be charged leave for the time they spend in a leave status during a base closure due to hazard-
      ous weather.



                                               ERIC L. DILWORTH
                                               Chief, Civilian Personnel Flight
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-810 29 JANUARY 2008                                                                      3


                                                Attachment 1

                          SAMPLE ANNUAL EMPLOYEE NOTIFICATION
MEMORANDUM FOR BASE-ESSENTIAL EMPLOYEE


FROM: ORGANIZATIONAL COMMANDER


SUBJECT: Base-Essential Designation


1. This memorandum is to notify you that you encumber a base-essential position. As such, the perfor-
mance of your duties is required to maintain minimum base operating functions. Therefore, in instances
when a delayed reporting time is announced for base personnel, you are still expected to report for duty at
your regularly scheduled time unless otherwise instructed by your supervisor. If the base is initially open
but subsequently closes due to hazardous weather, you will not be released early by being granted admin-
istrative leave. If you are already in a leave status and/or are scheduled to be in a leave status during the
period of early dismissal that day, you will continue to be charged leave. In the event that the base is
closed due to hazardous weather, you should report at the time of your regularly scheduled shift unless
otherwise instructed by your supervisor. If you are in an approved leave status for your entire shift, you
are excused without charge to leave when the base is closed due to hazardous weather, providing you were
in a pay status either the day preceding or the day following the day of excused absence and you supervi-
sor does not require you to report for duty. If you are scheduled to be in a leave status for part of your shift,
you are expected to report for that period of duty time for which leave was not approved. You will be
charged leave for the time you spend in a leave status during a base closure due to hazardous weather.


2. If you have any questions regarding this designation, please contact your supervisor. It is recommended
that you retain a copy of this memorandum in your vehicle for proof of your base-essential status in the
event you are required to drive to the base during a snow emergency. However, this memorandum is valid
for one year from the date of issuance and only while on official travel from your residence to your work
center and from your work center to your residence. If you are on other than official travel, you are sub-
ject to local laws governing road closures.


                                                                SIGNATURE BLOCK
