BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                                 WPAFB INSTRUCTION 34-101
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE (AFMC)                                                 31 JANUARY 2000
                                                                        Certified Current on 26 June 2012
                                                                                                  Services

                                                                                  HOME ALONE POLICY




                  COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NO TICE :Thi s publi cati on is a vail able di git al ly on the W PAFB WWW s ite a t: htt p: //
www.asc.wpafb.af.mil/pubs/wpafb/index.html. If you lack access, contact the Air Force Publishing
Distribution Center (AFPDC)


OPR: 88 SPTG/SVY (Kim R. Jackson)                           Certified by: 88 SPTG/SVY (Kim R. Jackson)
                                                                                               Pages: 2
                                                                                        Distribution: F

This instruction implements DoDI 6060.3, School Age Care (SAC) Program, paragraph 1.2, requiring
establishment of a home alone or “self care” policy. This instruction establishes local policy concerning
the responsibilities of base-affiliated sponsors for their dependents and guests. It is applicable to all per-
sonnel assigned or attached to Wright-Patterson Air Force Base Ohio.



1. Responsibilities: Active duty military, retired military, DoD employees, and other base-affiliated
members are responsible for the welfare of their families and for the conduct of their dependents and
guests.

2. Conduct:
   2.1. Children under 10 years of age will not be left in quarters, automobiles, or other locations unless
   under the supervision of a responsible individual 12 years of age or older.
   2.2. Age is not the only factor parents should consider when determining if children should be l eft
   alone. Other factors to consider are:
       2.2.1. Level of maturity.
       2.2.2. Emotional development.
       2.2.3. Physical health.
       2.2.4. Length of time they may be alone.
       2.2.5. Time of the day or night.
       2.2.6. Other children present or to be supervised.
2                                                                 WPAFBI 34-101 31 JANUARY 2000

       2.2.7. Location and environmental conditions.
       2.2.8. Frequency of being left alone.
       2.2.9. Accessibility of the parent or other responsible adult.
    2.3. Children of an age to be left alone should be able to demonstrate knowledge of where their par-
    ents or other responsible adults are and how to reach them, knowledge of emergency procedures, and
    ability to access and use a phone easily.
    2.4. Recommended Age Guidelines for Supervision of Children: A responsible caretaker must be
    physically and mentally capable of providing the necessary supervision for the child/children under his
    or her care.
       2.4.1. 0-5 Years Old: Parent/caretaker can hear child at all times and see child frequently.
       2.4.2. 6-9 Years Old: Parent/caretaker is easily accessible at all times and knows the child’s
       location.
       2.4.3. 10 Years Old: Child may be left alone if there are no emotional or physical limitations and
       if the child is comfortable with the situation. The length of time the child is left alone depends on
       the child’s capabilities.
    2.5. Leaving a child under the age of 10 alone in a car at any time is not acceptable.

3. Babysitter guidelines:
    3.1. Individuals under 18 years of age who care for younger children are strongly encouraged to par-
    ticipate in a certified babysitters course. Since there are varying degrees of maturity in children, par-
    ents will ensure that older children who babysit have enough experience to care properly for younger
    children. They must be able to control the children in their care, understand actions to be taken, and
    take proper action for situations that may arise.
    3.2. Babysitter guidelines for siblings:
       3.2.1. 12–13 Years Old: Generally able to babysit for family members who are at least 4 years
       old. It is highly recommended they have successfully completed an approved babysitting course.
       3.2.2. 14 Years Old and Over: Generally able to babysit for family member infants, toddlers,
       and older children. It is highly recommended they have successfully completed an approved
       babysitting course.

4. Supervising children is one of the most important responsibilities parents have. The ultimate respon-
sibility for the safety, care, well being, and behavior of dependent children remains with the parent,
whether they are personally present to supervise them or not.



                                          ROBERT F. RAGGIO, Lieutenant General, USAF
                                          Commander
