BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE                                         INSTRUCTION 36-202
                                                                                    12 OCTOBER 2005
                                                                       Certified Current 31 March 2014
                                                                                             Personnel

                                                      VOLUNTARY LEAVE TRANSFER PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

NOTICE:       This publication is available digitally on the AFDPO WWW site at:
              http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.

OPR: 88 MSS/DPCZB (Ms. Collette Myers)                  Certified by: 88 MSS/DPCZ (Ms. Ellen Round)
Supersedes WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-202,                                                     Pages: 12
           21 April 1999                                                            Distribution: F

This instruction implements WPAFBPD 36-2, Voluntary Leave Transfer Program. This publication estab-
lishes processing procedures & guidance regarding the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program, of all civilian
personnel employees serviced by the Civilian Personnel Flight. This publication requires the collection
and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act (PA) of 1974 authorized by 5 U.S.C.
Chapter 63; and/or Executive Order 9397. System of records notice F036 AFPCQ, Personnel Data Sys-
tem applies. Forms affected by the PA have an appropriate PA statement.

SUMMARY OF REVISIONS
Updates POCs, forms, office symbols and websites.


1. General Processing Procedures & Guidance.
   1.1. The 88 Mission Support Squadron, Civilian Personnel Flight, Labor and Employee Management
   Relations Chief is the final approving authority for all leave transfer applications for 88 MSS/DPC
   Civilian Personnel Flight-serviced employees. All leave transfer applications, donations and case files
   will be processed and maintained by the 88 MSS/DPCZB office. The recipient's first-level supervisor
   is responsible for keeping records of each application and tracking the amount of donations made and
   used during the emergency/hardship.
   1.2. An employee (or personal representative designated by the leave applicant or immediate family
   member in writing) who has met eligibility requirements may make written application to become a
   leave recipient by submitting OPM Form 630, Application to Become a Leave Recipient, to the
   employee’s first-level supervisor. The application form must also have the required original medical
   statement attached, as described in paragraph 2.5. of this publication.
   1.3. Prohibition of Coercion. An individual may not directly or indirectly intimidate, threaten, or
   coerce, any other individual for the purpose of interfering with any right an employee may have toertified Cu
2                                           WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-202 12 OCTOBER 2005


    donate, not to donate, receive or use annual leave under the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program.
    Effecting or threatening reprisal for not donating leave or donating leave is strictly forbidden.
    1.4. To avoid undue workloads that may occur with either premature or grossly tardy applications, the
    Civilian Personnel Flight has found it necessary to establish certain time parameters for submission of
    leave transfer applications. Original Leave Recipient Application Packages must be provided to the
    88 MSS/DPCZB office not earlier than 30 calendar days before the date they anticipate the need for
    donated leave and not later than 30 calendar days after the emergency terminates.
    1.5. Questions concerning the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program may be addressed to your servicing
    Human Resources Specialist (Employee Relations) or the program administrator in the 88 MSS/
    DPCZB office, at 257-2411.

2. Overview. The Federal Employees Leave Sharing Amendments Act of 1993, Public Law 103-103,
took effect on 5 February 1994, to make permanent the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program.
    2.1. The program was established to allow an employee who has a personal (self) or family medical
    emergency, and has insufficient sick or annual leave, to receive transferred annual leave from other
    civilian employees with the concurrence of the respective management officials.
    2.2. A medical emergency is defined as a medical condition of an employee or an immediate family
    member of such employee that is likely to require an employee’s absence from duty for a prolonged
    period of time, and will result in a substantial loss of income to the employee because of the unavail-
    ability of paid leave for a minimum of 24 work hours; or 30% of the biweekly work hours scheduled
    for part-time employees.
    2.3. The following relatives of an employee are considered family members in regard to the Voluntary
    Leave Transfer Program: spouse and parents thereof; children, including adopted children, stepchil-
    dren, foster children and spouses thereof; parents; brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; and any
    individual related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of
    a family relationship.
    2.4. Medical documentation required for the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program must be a statement
    signed by the physician certifying the diagnosis, prognosis, the beginning and expected ending dates
    of the medical emergency; including the approximate frequency of absences when the nature of the
    emergency requires intermittent or temporary absences. All medical statements must be an original
    document on the physician's stationery or letterhead, with the physician's name and address pre-
    printed, such as a prescription pad form. Faxed copies, duplicate copies or statements with a stamped
    signature are not acceptable to meet program requirements. For these purposes medical documenta-
    tion may be signed by any health care provider as defined in 5 CFR Parts 630 and 890. (This includes
    physicians and chiropractors.)
       2.4.1. When the emergency is of a serious nature and may require an indefinite absence, an esti-
       mated ending date will be established as three months from the date of the original medical state-
       ment. In order to remain in the leave transfer program a new written medical statement signed by
       the physician must be submitted every 90 days, to verify the continuing hardship; as well as to
       determine the number of donated hours the employee will need. Updated medical statements must
       provide an updated prognosis, as well as a new estimated ending date. If the medical emergency is
       to care for a family member, the medical document must also contain information about the type
       of care that needs to be provided by the employee. Family emergencies will end when it is no
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-202 12 OCTOBER 2005                                                                        3


       longer necessary to provide care for the family member. All medical statements or updated medi-
       cal statements must be provided to the first-level supervisor, and then forwarded to the Civilian
       Personnel Flight. Medical documents cannot be accepted in the personnel office unless they are
       attached to WPAFB Form 1444, Request to Extend or End Leave Transfer Emergency, that is
       signed by the supervisor.
   2.5. To meet eligibility for the program an applicant's emergency must exhaust all of his/her own
   annual leave, sick leave, compensatory time, credit hours and show they will be in a nonpay status for
   24 working hours (30% of biweekly scheduled hours for part-time employees).
   2.6. Processing procedures and forms are available on Civilian Personnel's Home Page on the World
   Wide Web. The Voluntary Leave Transfer Program is listed under the Employee Relations and the
   Leave section. To access through the website enter the URL: https://www.civperson-
   nel.wpafb.af.mil/. All applications and donations must be submitted to 88 MSS/DPCZB, through
   employee’s first-level supervisor.

3. Responsibilities.
   3.1. The employee is responsible to obtain the required medical statement, complete the applicant’s
   section of the OPM Form 630, Application to Become a Leave Recipient, and submit it to his/her
   first-level supervisor. If the applicant is too ill to do this, a representative can do it on his/her behalf. It
   is also the employee’s responsibility to keep his/her first-level supervisor informed when the condi-
   tions of the medical emergency have changed, whether the expected ending date needs to be extended,
   or if the emergency has ended. For personal medical emergencies the employee must report to Bldg
   675, Area B, Occupational Medicine, for clearance to return to duty, if absent for ten or more consec-
   utive work days. When reporting to Occupational Medicine, the physician on duty will require that the
   employee provide a copy of the medical statement(s) supporting the absence from duty.
   3.2. The first-level supervisor will validate the employment information contained in the application,
   verify the applicant meets eligibility for the program, and the medical statement contains all required
   information for the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program. The application must be returned to the appli-
   cant if corrections and/or additional information are required. Once the application receives supervi-
   sory endorsement, it is forwarded to the Civilian Personnel Flight, 88 MSS/DPCZB, within 5
   workdays.
   3.3. The first-level supervisor is responsible for recommending approval/disapproval of the applica-
   tion, by completing Block 17 on the OPM Form 630. Prior to releasing the application to the Civilian
   Personnel Flight, it is recommended the supervisor contact the servicing Human Resources Specialist
   (Employee Relations), in the event other leave programs will also be applicable to this period of
   absence, such as the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA), or if advanced leave is being requested by
   the employee.
       3.3.1. After supervisory recommendation, the original Leave Recipient Application Form and the
       original medical statement are forwarded to 88 MSS/DPCZB for regulatory and compliance
       review. The supervisor should retain a copy of all documents submitted.
   3.4. Upon receipt in the Civilian Personnel Flight, the leave transfer program administrator will pre-
   pare a WPAFB Form 1446, Leave Transfer Eligibility Analysis-Voluntary Leave Transfer Pro-
   gram, to determine the estimated number of donated hours the employee will need, based on payroll
   information and the employee’s work schedule. A Daily Record of Absence Form will be provided to
4                                           WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-202 12 OCTOBER 2005


    the supervisor to track only the actual hours missed for the duration of the approved absence. A copy
    of the analysis along with supporting documents will be provided to the first-level supervisor.
       3.4.1. The Leave Transfer package will need to be reviewed by the Chief of the Labor and
       Employee Management Relations Branch. If the case is approved, the Civilian Personnel Flight
       then adds the employee’s name to the list of Approved Leave Recipients on civilian personnel’s
       home page, unless the applicant has requested otherwise.

4. Leave Solicitation/Donations.
    4.1. Formal solicitation for annual leave donations is initiated by the recipient's supervisor, but only
    after official notification from 88 MSS/DPCZB that the application has been approved. Leave dona-
    tions may not be accepted before applications have been formally approved. Solicitation should begin
    within the recipient's immediate office, and then expanded gradually to other offices within the orga-
    nization of assignment. Base-wide solicitation can be made through electronic mail if necessary. Pub-
    licity efforts must be consistent for all employees who have approval to receive transferred annual
    leave donations. For this purpose all supervisors must use the solicitation format provided on Civilian
    Personnel’s Home Page. A brief description of the nature of the emergency can only be provided on
    the solicitation if the employee has made such an indication in block 14 of the OPM Form 630. If the
    application form has been signed by anyone other than the applicant, the applicant must provide a
    signed statement to the Civilian Personnel Flight to verify authorization to release personal informa-
    tion.
    4.2. The leave recipient's supervisor shall monitor the status of the medical emergency affecting the
    leave recipient to ensure that the leave recipient continues to be affected by a medical emergency, and
    notify the Civilian Personnel Flight immediately of any changes. This includes obtaining updated
    medical documentation when an absence continues beyond the projected return to duty date or when
    an assessment of the continued need for donated leave is required. The WPAFB Form 1444, Request
    to Extend or End Leave Transfer Emergency, must be submitted to the Civilian Personnel Flight
    along with the appropriate medical documentation and the completed Daily Record of Absence Form
    (listing actual absence since the beginning date of the approved emergency), immediately after an
    employee's expected ending date. The purpose will be to extend the medical emergency; report the
    employee has returned to work on a limited/intermittent or part-time schedule; and/or to report when
    the medical emergency has ended because the employee has been released to return to regular tour of
    duty. If this information is not furnished as soon as the employee returns to duty, and donated leave is
    used by civilian payroll for an absence not covered under the leave transfer program, it will create
    indebtedness to the employee; which payroll will collect at a later date.
    4.3. The recipient’s supervisor is responsible for instructing the timekeeper or organization’s payroll
    customer service representative (CSR ) to make necessary corrections to the recipient’s timecards.
    4.4. The supervisor will track the availability, use and receipt of donations by coordinating with the
    timekeeper or CSR. The WPAFB Form 1445, Leave Donation Transmittal-Voluntary Leave
    Transfer Program, with donor forms and copies of the donor’s leave and earnings statement
    attached, must be received in the Civilian Personnel Flight (88 MSS/DPCZB) by close of business
    every Wednesday. The Civilian Personnel Flight will process the donations with the civilian payroll
    office. Donations submitted to 88 MSS/DPCZB for processing may not exceed the estimated amount
    of donations needed according to medical documentation on file. If additional donations are needed
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-202 12 OCTOBER 2005                                                                 5


  because an absence has been extended, medical documentation that supports the extension must be
  provided, prior to additional donations being accepted.
  4.5. Donated leave will first be applied to retroactively cover any leave without pay (LWOP) incurred
  since the date the medical emergency began, then applied retroactively to offset any negative annual
  and/or applicable negative sick leave balances incurred since the medical emergency began. A leave
  recipient may use donated leave only for the purpose of the medical emergency approved with the
  application.
  4.6. All leave donations must be in whole hours.
  4.7. A first-level supervisor is prohibited from receiving donated leave from a subordinate employee.
  4.8. Donor Limits: Donations may only be made to a specified, approved recipient. Established limits
  on donations are no more than one-half the amount of annual leave the donor will accrue in the current
  leave year, or the maximum amount of leave the donor could use for the remainder of the leave year;
  whichever is less. For an employee receiving 4 hours of annual leave per pay period, the maximum
  donations would be 52 hours; those receiving 6 hours per pay period could donate up to 80 hours; and
  those receiving 8 hours per pay period could donate up to 104 hours per leave year. Civilian employ-
  ees interested in donating use-or-lose annual leave should plan to complete the necessary donation
  forms in a timely manner, in order to donate the maximum allowable hours for the remainder of the
  leave year. The Voluntary Leave Transfer Program does not allow "dumping" of use-or-lose annual
  leave. A leave donor who is projected to have annual leave that would otherwise be subject to forfei-
  ture at the end of the leave year under 5 U.S.C. 6304(a) may donate no more than the number of hours
  remaining in the leave year (as of the date of transfer) for which the leave donor is scheduled to work
  and receive pay. The last day that donor forms can be received in the Civilian Personnel Flight, in
  order to be deducted from use-or-lose annual leave, will be the Thursday before the end of the leave
  year.
     4.8.1. Waiver of Donor Limits: Requests to waive the donor limits must be documented in writ-
     ing, using the format provided on Civilian Personnel’s Home Page. The letter must be signed by
     the donor and attached to the appropriate donor form. Waiver of limitations may not be authorized
     solely to avoid the forfeiture of annual leave at the end of the leave year. To prevent the possibility
     of dumping use-or-lose annual leave, waiver requests will not be processed during the period of 15
     December through 15 January of each year. The immediate supervisor and the servicing Human
     Resources Specialist (Employee Relations) will coordinate the request and forward it to the Chief
     of Labor and Employee Management Relations for final approval/disapproval. The request and
     donor form will then be given to the program administrator for processing and notification to the
     employee.
  4.9. Donations may not be approved for amounts exceeding what the donor will need for the
  approved period. The recipient's supervisor should retain a copy of each donation form for tracking
  purposes, and forward the OPM 630-A or OPM 630-B donor forms, along with the WPAFB 1445, to
  the Civilian Personnel Flight. The Civilian Personnel Flight will validate the donation requests and
  forward them to the civilian payroll office for processing. For recipients with intermittent absence,
  where a number of hours needed may not be projected, donations may only be processed for the actual
  hours missed. To increase the amount of hours needed for intermittent absence, the Daily Record of
  Absence Form listing actual hours missed will need to be provided to the Civilian Personnel Flight.
6                                           WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-202 12 OCTOBER 2005


    4.10. Donations Made Within the Same Agency: Individuals wishing to donate annual leave must
    complete the OPM Form 630-A, Request to Donate Annual Leave (Within Agency), and attach a
    copy of their most current Leave and Earnings Statement showing leave information or a copy of the
    Master Leave History Report which can be obtained from the organization’s CSR. The OPM donor
    forms do not make provisions to specify if the donor wishes to remain anonymous. If the donor does
    not want his/her name to be provided to the recipient, the word “Confidential” should be written in
    the same block that has the donor’s name listed. Since all Air Force installations are now payroll-ser-
    viced by the DFAS Pensacola Office, employees from other air force bases will also use the OPM
    Form 630-A.
       4.10.1. The donor may block out the salary and withholding information contained on his/her
       leave and earnings statement. The OPM Form 630-A is then forwarded to the leave recipient’s
       supervisor, to verify the amount of donations which are needed by the recipient.
    4.11. Donations Made Outside the Agency: If the donor is not employed by the same agency as the
    recipient, OPM Form 630-B, Request to Donate Leave (Outside Agency) must be used to process
    the donation. This donation will be reported on a separate WPAFB 1445, from the donations pro-
    cessed within the same agency. The donor (or recipient) must also provide a name as the point-of-con-
    tact and phone or fax number (to include area code or indicate if it is DSN) for the recipient’s (or
    donor’s) servicing personnel office. This information is needed in order to supply necessary informa-
    tion to both servicing personnel and payroll offices. Family members from other agencies may donate
    to an approved leave recipient, without waiting for external solicitation. All leave donations made to
    or from other agencies must be processed through 88 MSS/DPCZB.

5. Timecards.
    5.1. Timecards for employees on SELF- emergency must be coded sick leave "LS" for time associ-
    ated with the emergency. If timecards were previously submitted as code KA (Leave Without Pay),
    corrected timecards must be input into the payroll system, upon approval to receive donated leave.
    Once the payroll system has used all of the employee’s sick leave, annual leave, compensatory time
    and credit hours, it will automatically convert to pay the employee from the donated leave account,
    retroactively to the approved dates. The exception would be if the employee has received approval to
    be paid from advanced leave if necessary. The codes LG (Advanced Sick Leave) or LB (Advanced
    Annual Leave) would be used in this case. Donated leave cannot be applied to advanced leave until a
    corrected timecard has been input to correct the advanced leave to sick leave. The corrected timecards
    can only be input after the CSR or timekeeper has verified the donated leave is in the employee’s
    account, by viewing the Master Leave History each pay period. The CSR must input the number of
    hours approved to be paid from advanced leave, to be used intermittently and the not-to-exceed date
    before the timecard can be input into the DCPS system. If the emergency is ongoing and there is a lim-
    ited amount of donations in the recipient’s account, the supervisor will need to consider if the donated
    leave needs to be applied to the current absence, to keep him/her in a pay status. Corrections to time-
    cards for advanced leave may need to be delayed until additional donations have been received, or
    until the employee has returned to duty; whichever comes first.
    5.2. Timecards for employees on a FAMILY emergency must be coded annual leave "LA" for time
    associated with the emergency, with the exception of the sick leave that must be used under the FFLA
    Program, and coded as such in the payroll system. Once the employee has used all of his/her annual
    leave, the system will automatically convert to pay the employee from the donated leave account. If
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-202 12 OCTOBER 2005                                                                    7


   the absence is intermittent, it is important for the supervisor to track the actual hours missed to care for
   the family member. The amount of donations needed by the employee will only be increased as the
   Civilian Personnel Flight receives verification of the actual hours missed to care for the family mem-
   ber. The adjustments made in the payroll database are system-generated and will apply donated leave
   to any absence using the code “LA”. It is for this purpose that the supervisor must work with the Civil-
   ian Personnel Flight to determine what absence is approved for the use of donated leave. The correc-
   tions to advanced leave as described in paragraph 5.1., also apply to advanced leave used in a family
   emergency, except most of the advanced leave used will be advanced annual leave. The corrections to
   the coding would be to LA, rather than LS, in order for donated leave to be applied.
   5.3. Do not code timecards "KA" (LWOP) unless you are sure you want the employee to be charged
   leave without pay. Hours coded under "KA" will not automatically convert to pay from the donated
   leave account. Holidays will always be coded “LH”, even if the employee does not have enough dona-
   tions to place them in a pay status, the day before or after the holiday. If enough donations are later
   received, the recipient will be paid retroactively for the holiday. Timecards are never to be coded
   “LD” (Donated Leave). The payroll system must convert to code LD, through system-generated
   updates.
   5.4. Attention must also be given to the type of advanced leave being authorized. The maximum
   amount of sick leave an employee may use (240 hours) for his/her own medical emergency, cannot be
   approved to care for a family member. Any sick leave used to care for a family member must also be
   coded with the appropriate FFLA code, in the payroll system. FFLA codes are not pre-authorized in
   payroll’s database, but entered as an additional code when the code “LS” is used to care for a family
   member. If the employee has also been approved for FMLA during this period, the CSR must input
   the beginning and ending date in the payroll data system for automatic tracking, in the same manner
   that advanced leave is input, prior to timecard entry.

6. Accrual of Annual Leave and Sick Leave.
   6.1. All annual leave and applicable sick leave accrued by the leave recipient must be used before
   donated leave can be applied.
   6.2. While the employee is receiving pay from leave donations, annual leave and sick leave shall
   accrue at the same rate as if the employee were in a paid leave status.
   6.3. The hours accrued based on being paid from donated leave are prorated and placed in a separate
   account, referred to as the set-aside account. The maximum amount of leave that can be accrued in
   this account is 40 hours of annual leave and 40 hours of sick leave, per medical emergency. Once the
   set-aside accounts reach the maximum of 40 hours, any accruals based on paid donated leave will be
   forfeited. The primary purpose of the set-aside account is to allow the employee to have some leave
   accrued after the leave transfer case has been closed. The hours that are placed in the set-aside
   accounts are not listed on the employee’s leave and earnings statement, but can be viewed in the pay-
   roll account by the organization’s CSR.
      6.3.1. The leave accrued in the set-aside account will automatically be transferred to the leave
      recipient’s regular leave accrual accounts after the civilian payroll office has closed the leave
      transfer case.
8                                           WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-202 12 OCTOBER 2005


       6.3.2. If the employee's medical emergency has not yet terminated and all available leave (includ-
       ing leave donations) has been used; payroll may pay the recipient the hours accrued in his/her
       set-aside account.
       6.3.3. In situations where the employee uses donated leave intermittently, the amount of set-aside
       leave accrued is prorated based on the number of donated hours used each pay period. The hours
       accrued while actually working will go into the regular accrual accounts, and must be used before
       further donated leave can be applied.
    6.4. While on donated leave, if an employee's LWOP equals the bi-weekly tour for a pay period, pay-
    roll will do a credit reduction offset, to deduct the accrual for which they have already been credited.
    For example if an employee has 60 hours LWOP one pay period and 20 hours the following pay
    period, a credit reduction will show on the second LES; deducting the amount of annual and sick leave
    accrued for one pay period. Adjustments will be made if enough donations are later received to offset
    the LWOP.
    6.5. In cases where an employee was paid from advanced leave; the normal accruals will be placed in
    the regular accrual accounts. Through system-generated updates, the annual leave accrued while
    being paid from advanced leave, will be paid to the employee the next pay period after all advanced
    leave has been used, if the employee is still on leave. However, when enough donations have been
    received to later correct the advanced leave, so the donated leave can be applied to the negative leave
    balance, the payroll system will transfer the annual leave hours from the regular accrual account, to
    place them in the set-aside account, going back to the pay period ending date that is being corrected
    until the most current pay period. To prevent a possible indebtedness, it is recommended that the
    supervisor or CSR review the pay periods immediately following the employee being paid from
    advanced leave. At the same time a corrected timecard is being completed to apply donated leave to
    advanced leave for a particular pay period, a corrected timecard should also be prepared for the period
    that the employee was paid the annual leave accrued, if it was not previously coded correctly.
    6.6. Any questions regarding how an employee has been paid using donated leave, must be directed
    to his/her supervisor who in turn will contact the organization’s timekeeper or CSR. The Civilian Per-
    sonnel Flight does not get copies of the recipient's timecards that are submitted to payroll, and cannot
    provide answers to the leave recipient. The supervisor or CSR must work with DFAS to resolve any
    timecard problems.
       6.6.1. With retroactive adjustments being made frequently, recipients are strongly encouraged to
       maintain copies of the leave and earnings statements available for the period of time he/she has a
       leave transfer case open. It is also the employee’s responsibility to notify the supervisor if donated
       leave is paid after the emergency has ended, or if it appears that an overpayment has been made.

7. Termination of Medical Emergency.
    7.1. It is the employee’s responsibility to notify their immediate supervisor when an emergency needs
    to be extended, or if it has ended. The supervisor will notify the Civilian Personnel Flight by submit-
    ting the WPAFB Form 1444, with appropriate documentation attached, to support the requested
    action. The employee's emergency is terminated when the physician has released him/her to return to
    his/her normal tour of duty, or when it is no longer necessary to provide care for the specified family
    member. The employee and the supervisor must complete a WPAFB Form 1444. The case can remain
    open to accept additional donations until he/she receives all donations needed, or until the end of the
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-202 12 OCTOBER 2005                                                                   9


   leave year, to be afforded with opportunities of use-or-lose donations; whichever comes first. Dona-
   tions may only be applied to the period approved for donated leave. If any donations are paid beyond
   the ending date, a timecard correction will be prepared to return those donations to the donated leave
   account and possibly to the donors, if they are not needed for the approved period.
   7.2. In the event of the employee’s retirement, resignation, or death, the supervisor needs to notify the
   Civilian Personnel Flight as soon as possible. Processing necessary adjustments to his/her pay is much
   easier to accomplish while the employee remains on our rolls.

8. Closing A Leave Transfer Case.
   8.1. The WPAFB Form 1443, Closeout Report-Voluntary Leave Transfer Program, is completed
   by the supervisor and forwarded to 88 MSS/DPCZB within 60 calendar days after (1) the emergency
   has terminated and enough donated leave has been received to cover the absence; (2) the end of the
   leave year in which the medical emergency terminated; or (3) when otherwise deemed appropriate or
   necessary by the supervisor and/or the Civilian Personnel Flight. If Closeout Reports are not received
   in a timely manner, the program administrator will be instructed to prepare an administrative closeout.
   8.2. If more leave donations were processed than actually needed by the leave recipient; DFAS (civil-
   ian payroll) will compute the amount of leave to be restored to the leave donors. The unused leave will
   be prorated by dividing the number of unused donated leave by the total number of hours donated to
   the recipient. This ratio will be multiplied by the number of hours donated by each donor. (When the
   total number of leave donors exceeds the total number of hours to be returned, no unused leave shall
   be returned. If each donor cannot receive at least one hour of returned leave, the payroll office will for-
   feit the remaining leave.) When the payroll office returns the unused annual leave to the donors, the
   donor has the option of notifying payroll if he/she wants his/her pro-rated share to be returned in the
   current or following year; or if he/she would prefer to donate the leave to another leave recipient.

9. Holidays.
   9.1. Holiday hours are not included with estimates of donated hours needed. If the employee is in a
   pay status he/she will receive holiday pay as scheduled. If the employee is in a non-pay status and later
   receives enough donated leave to be put in a paid status; the employee will receive holiday pay retro-
   actively.

10. Forms Prescribed.
   10.1. Completed forms cannot be transmitted electronically, as the personnel and payroll office
   require signatures. You may print the forms you need from the following list of forms that are now
   available on Civilian Personnel’s Home Page at https://www.civpersonnel.wpafb.af.mil/.
   Application to Become A Leave Recipient                  OPM Form 630 (JUN 2001)
   Request to Donate Annual Leave (Within Agency)           OPM Form 630-A (JUN 2001)
   Request to Donate Annual Leave (Outside Agency)          OPM Form 630-B (JUN 2001)
   Leave Transfer Eligibility Analysis                      WPAFB Form 1446 (MAR 2003)
   Leave Donation Transmittal                               WPAFB Form 1445 (MAR 2003)
   Request to Extend or End A Leave Transfer Emergency      WPAFB Form 1444 (MAR 2003)
   Closeout Request                                         WPAFB Form 1443 (MAR 2003)
10                                           WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-202 12 OCTOBER 2005


NOTE: With the release of this publication, all forms previously used for the leave transfer program are
obsolete.

11. Other Leave Programs.
     11.1. Federal employees have the benefit of several leave programs available to meet various per-
     sonal needs. To view a description of the leave programs, please visit the Civilian Personnel Home
     Page. If there is uncertainty as to which plan is most appropriate for your particular need, please con-
     tact your supervisor, or the servicing Human Resources Specialist (Employee Relations) for your
     organization at 257-2411.



                                                 DONNA M. SCARLATA, Chief
                                                 Civilian Personnel Flight
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-202 12 OCTOBER 2005                                                               11


                                              Attachment 1

              GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
5 Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 630, Subpart 1
5 United States Code (U.S.C.), Chapter 63
Air Force Instruction (AFI) 36-815 Chapter 9
DoD Financial Management Regulations, Volume 8, Chapter 5
Executive Order 9397
Public Law 103-103
Public Law 100-566

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CSR—Customer Service Representative
DCPS—Defense Civilian Payroll System
DFAS—Defense Finance Accounting Service
FFLA—Family Friendly Leave Act
FMLA—Family & Medical Leave Act
KA—Leave without Pay
LA—Leave Annual
LES—Leave and Earnings Statement
LS—Leave Sick
LH—Holiday
LWOP—Leave without Pay
PA—Privacy Act
URL—Uniform Resource Locator
U.S.C.—United States Code

Terms
Family Friendly Leave Act—Permits employees to use a portion of their sick leave to provide care for
family member illness or medical emergencies.
Family Members—The spouse and parents, thereof; children, including adopted children, stepchildren,
foster children and spouses thereof; parents; brothers and sisters, and spouses thereof; and any individual
related by blood or affinity whose close association with the employee is the equivalent of a family
relationship are considered family members regarding the Voluntary Leave Transfer Program.
12                                        WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI36-202 12 OCTOBER 2005


Federal Employee Leave Sharing—Program established to allow an employee who has a personal or
family medical emergency, and has insufficient sick or annual leave, to receive transferred annual leave
from other civilian employees with the concurrence of the respective management officials.
Leave Donor—Civilian employees who transfer annual leave to an approved leave recipient.
Leave Recipient—Employee who has been approved to receive leave donations based on self or family
medical emergency.
Medical Emergency—A medical condition of an employee or an immediate family member of such
employee is likely to require an employee's absence from duty for a prolonged period of time, and will
result in a substantial loss of income to the employee because of the unavailability of paid leave for a
minimum of 24 work hours; or 30 percent of the bi-weekly work hours scheduled for part-time
employees.
