BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                                 WRIGHT PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE
WRIGHT PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE                                         INSTRUCTION 23-303
                                                                                        9 MARCH 2007

                                                                                 Materiel Management

                                                    VEHICLE ACCIDENT AND ABUSE PROGRAM



                 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:         Publications and forms are available on the e-publishing website at
                       www.e-publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering.
RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication.


OPR: 88 MSG/LGRV                                                            Certified by: 88 MSG/LGR
                                                                           (Mr. Richard F. Henterly, Jr.)
                                                                                              Pages: 5

This instruction implements Air Force Instruction 23-302, Vehicle Management. It establishes policies
and procedures for implementing and managing the installation’s vehicle accident and abuse program. It
applies to all commanders, directors, division chiefs, vehicle control officers (VCOs), vehicle control
noncommissioned officers (VCNCOs) and vehicle operators assigned to host and associate units on
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. Instructions herein apply to all government vehicle and vehicular
assets, including General Services Administration (GSA) and Air Force commercially leased assets.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with AFMAN 37-123 (will convert to AFMAN 33-363), Management of Records, and dis-
posed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at https://
afrims.amc.af.mil.


1. General Policies:
   1.1. Repair of vehicles damaged by preventable accidents or confirmed abuse diverts limited
   resources from direct mission support and wastes government funds. Commanders at every level
   must take appropriate actions to minimize accident occurrences and avoid all vehicle abuse.
   1.2. Air Force members and employees can be held financially liable only in those cases in which the
   loss or damage to a government vehicle was proximately caused by the member’s or employee’s gross
   negligence, willful misconduct, or deliberate unauthorized use. The fact that financial liability may
   not be imposed on the person responsible for the vehicle damage does not prevent the commander
   from taking other administrative actions against the responsible person.
   1.3. All vehicle management funds expended for vehicle accident and abuse repair costs, including
   contract cost, will be reimbursed to vehicle management by the owning organization, or the organiza-
   tion responsible for the damage, if not the owner. Where responsibility cannot be determined, the
   owning organization will be responsible for reimbursement. (See AFI 23-302, paragraph 1.20.2)
2                                               WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI23-303 9 MARCH 2007


2. Responsibilities:
    2.1. Unit Commanders or Directors will:
       2.1.1. Implement vehicle care and training programs through their VCO/VCNCO that help pre-
       vent abuse and minimize accidents. Provide total support to the organization VCO/VCNCO in all
       vehicle related matters.
       2.1.2. Ensure investigation procedures found in AFMAN 23-220, Reports of Survey for Air Force
       Property, as supplemented, are followed. Personally review all vehicle accident and suspected
       abuse investigations involving assigned vehicles or vehicles used by unit personnel.
       2.1.3. Ensure that any vehicle damage not attributed to fair wear and tear or a vehicle incident will
       be funded by the responsible organization. (See AFI 23-302, paragraph 1.20.2)
       2.1.4. Ensure appropriate steps are taken to recover the costs from the individual concerned if
       gross negligence, willful misconduct or deliberate unauthorized use is determined to be the cause
       of the damage (see AFMAN 23-220). Regardless of determination, government vehicle repairs
       will always be paid by the organization.
       2.1.5. Direct a transfer of appropriated funds to the Logistics Readiness Division (88 MSG/LGR)
       within 30 calendar days upon receipt of reimbursement request letter. Funding amount must com-
       pletely cover all itemized repair costs as calculated and provided by the Vehicle Contract Manage-
       ment Branch (88 MSG/LGRV) or actually billed by GSA, as applicable. Similarly, organizations
       signing out U-Drive-It (UDI) vehicles from Vehicle Operations will be held responsible for costs
       to repair any accident/abuse damages incurred while the vehicle was in their care.

3. Processing Procedures:
    3.1. When an accident or suspected abuse occurs and the Air Force owned vehicle is operable, the
    user will immediately bring the Air Force owned vehicle to Vehicle Management (88 MSG/
    LGRTVM) unless prior agreement is made. If the Air Force owned vehicle is not operable, the unit
    VCO/VCNCO will immediately contact Vehicle Operations (88 MSG/LGRTVO) and request
    wrecker/recovery service. For GSA vehicles, please see “A Guide to Your Interagency Fleet Manage-
    ment System Vehicle.”
    3.2. VCO/VCNCO will:
       3.2.1. Immediately notify the unit commander/director, 88 SFS Control Center, and 88 MSG/
       LGRTVM of the accident.
       3.2.2. For all accidents, forward a copy of the completed SF Form 91 to 88 ABW/JAD, ASC/SE,
       88 CPTS/FMA, 88 MSG/LGRTVM, 88 MSG/LGRTVO, and 88 MSG/LGRV, as soon as possible
       after the accident occurs.
       3.2.3. Obtain copy of accident investigation report from 88th Security Forces Reports and Analy-
       sis (88 SFS/SFAR) or local law enforcement and forward to 88 MSG/LGRTVM
       3.2.4. Forward a copy of the vendor prepared estimate for GSA or commercially leased/rented
       vehicles to 88 MSG/LGRTVM.
       3.2.5. Sign and return the completed Estimate of Damage (EOD) work order to 88 MSG/
       LGRTVM within five days of receipt to authorize the release for repairs. GSA vehicles will be
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI23-303 9 MARCH 2007                                                               3


     released for repairs by authority of the GSA Accident Control Center. Note: 88 MSG/LGRTVM
     will not begin vehicle repairs until the release for repair authorization is received.
  3.3. Vehicle Management (88 MSG/LGRTVM) will (applies to Air Force owned vehicles only):
     3.3.1. Inspect the damage and complete an Estimate of Damage (EOD) work order to determine
     the estimated repair costs. Forward a copy of the completed EOD to the VCO/VCNCO and 88
     MSG/LGRV.
     3.3.2. Ensure documentary photographs are taken, when determined necessary.
     3.3.3. When appropriate, initiate suspected abuse letter based on observations and recommenda-
     tions of vehicle mechanic.
     3.3.4. Ensure repair work does not begin until the vehicle is released for repairs by the VCO/
     VCNCO of the owning organization.
     3.3.5. When all actions have been completed, ensure a copy of the pertinent information (SF Form
     91, estimates, and accident report) is attached to the work order and maintained in the vehicle’s
     record jacket for a period of one year. Forward a copy of the completed package to 88 MSG/
     LGRV immediately once completed.
  3.4. Vehicle Operations (88 MSG/LGRTVO) will (applies to UDI vehicles only):
     3.4.1. Forward a copy of the completed SF Form 91 to 88 ABW/JAD, ASC/SE, 88 CPTS/FMA,
     and 88 MSG/LGRV. Follow-up with a copy of the accident repair estimate from the local vendor
     once obtained.
     3.4.2. Forward a copy of the documentation received from GSA which depicts the actual cost of
     repair to 88 MSG/LGRV.
  3.5. The Vehicle Contract Management Branch (88 MSG/LGRV) will:
     3.5.1. Forward a preliminary notification of the accident/abuse, to include UDI vehicles, to the
     responsible unit commander/director.
     3.5.2. Upon completion of repairs, or when final billing documentation is received from GSA, ini-
     tiate a reimbursement request package to the unit commander/director.
  3.6. The unit commander/director will, upon notification of an accident or suspected abuse:
     3.6.1. Initiate an investigation to determine the circumstances surrounding the accident/suspected
     abuse, to include an assessment of liability on the part of the operator.
     3.6.2. Address matters regarding personal financial responsibility according to reporting proce-
     dures in AFMAN 23-220, as supplemented.
  3.7. The 88th Security Forces Squadron will conduct a formal traffic accident investigation for all
  major vehicle accidents involving government vehicles and document all minor vehicle accidents
  involving government vehicles in the Security Forces Blotter.
4                                            WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI23-303 9 MARCH 2007


4. Replacement Vehicles: Replacement vehicles will not normally be provided as substitutes for vehicle
accident/suspected abuse cases awaiting repairs. Exceptions to this policy may be approved by 88 MSG/
CC upon request from the responsible unit commander/director.



                                             COLLEEN M. RYAN, Colonel, USAF
                                             Commander, 88th Air Base Wing
WRIGHTPATTERSONAFBI23-303 9 MARCH 2007                                                            5


                                           Attachment 1

             GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

Terms
Government Vehicle—Any Air Force owned, GSA leased, or Air Force commercially leased/rented
vehicle or vehicular asset.
Vehicle Abuse—An act or omission that has caused or may cause damage to a government vehicle that
cannot be attributed to fair wear and tear, accident, or incident.
Vehicle Accident—Any situation where a government vehicle strikes or is struck by another government
vehicle, non-government vehicle and/or object, structure or animal where action by any participative
vehicle operator could have prevented the outcome.
Vehicle Incident—Any situation where a government vehicle sustains damage where the actions of any
participative vehicle operator could not have prevented the outcome (i.e., act of nature).
Vehicle Fair Wear and Tear—The normal expected deterioration of a vehicle or equipment based on its
age, usage, and life expectancy.
