BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         YOKOTA AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 34-110
YOKOTA AIR BASE
                                                                             29 OCTOBER 2014

                                                                                         Services

                                                                 TAMA HILLS RECREATION
                                                                 AREA (THRA) OPERATIONS

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 374 FSS/FSC                                                      Certified by: 374 MSG/CC
                                                                          (Col Scott P. Maskery)
Supersedes:    YOKOTA ABI 34-110,                                                        Pages: 8
               19 April 2012


This instruction clarifies procedures for patron eligibility and use of the Tama Hills Recreation
Area (THRA) to achieve maximum utilization of the area and associate facilities. This
instruction also establishes procedures and policies regarding the rental of recreational
equipment and use of recreational facilities at THRA. This instruction implements AFPD 34-1,
Air Force Services Combat Support Programs. It outlines operational procedures and
administrative practices for management and control of the THRA lodging and outdoor
recreation programs. This instruction applies to all assigned, attached and tenant units at Yokota
Air Base (AB), Japan; and all authorized users and personnel employed at THRA, Japan. Ensure
that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in
accordance with (IAW) AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of IAW the Air
Force         Records          Disposition        Schedule         (RDS)          located       at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using the AF
Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Form 847 from the field
through the appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Change of category for the Red Horse Cabin, inclusion of cabins with camp sites,
updated allowable periods of advance reservations, periods of patron reservation eligibility, and
Riding Stables cancellation fees.
 2                                                   YOKOTAABI34-110 29 OCTOBER 2014


1. Responsibility. The THRA General Manager is responsible for ensuring strict compliance
with this instruction, including overall responsibility for lodging usage and outdoor recreation.
2. General. All reservations are subject to cancellation on short notice dependent upon United
States Air Force (USAF) requirements. All reservations are subject to cancellation charges as
applicable. Category IV and V personnel may not stay overnight on THRA on Friday or
Saturday, or any night prior to U.S. holidays and 374th Airlift Wing (374 AW) Family/Down
Days, unless an authorized guest of Category I, II or III personnel, or approved by the 374 AW
Commander (374 AW/CC) and/or his/her designee.
3. Categories of Personnel Authorized Access to THRA:
     3.1. Category I:
        3.1.1. Active duty US military personnel, Status or Forces Agreement (SOFA) sponsored
        civilians, and their dependents assigned to Yokota AB, Japan.
        3.1.2. Personnel authorized to attend official military or approved special functions at
        THRA to include conferences, off-sites, and social events, regardless of assigned
        installation or service.
        3.1.3. Youth groups, scouts, and religious retreats, reunions, weddings, and other large
        scale functions of SOFA sponsored personnel, regardless of assigned installation or
        service, subject to the consent of the General Manager or his/her designated
        representative.
     3.2. Category II:
        3.2.1. All other active duty US military personnel, SOFA sponsored civilians and their
        dependents not assigned to Yokota AB, Japan.
        3.2.2. US military Reserve personnel on active duty for training or in transit on official
        orders to or from duty stations in Japan or via Japan and retired DoD civilians.
        3.2.3. Department of Defense (DoD) civilian employees who are traveling on official
        DoD orders which include Japan as a place of duty (employed in Japan or in Japan for
        temporary duty [TDY]).
        3.2.4. DoD civilian employees stationed in foreign countries with Environmental Morale
        Leave (EML) authorization specifying leave in Japan or Japan as an intermediate
        transportation point.
        3.2.5. Persons holding valid identification cards issued by the American Embassy in
        Tokyo or under auspices of the American Embassy in Tokyo, Japan.
        3.2.6. Persons holding valid identification cards issued by the United Nations Command
        (Rear).
        3.2.7. Others who have SOFA Eligibility for Japan (i.e., Title XIV DoD contractors,
        individuals on Invitational Travel Orders issued by DoD).
        3.2.8. Dependents of all of the above over the age of 18 years.
     3.3. Category III:
YOKOTAABI34-110 29 OCTOBER 2014                                                                 3


       3.3.1. Japanese whose primary employment location is Yokota AB (Master Labor
       Contract [MLC] employees, Indirect Hire Agreement [IHA] employees, Japan Self-
       Defense Force [JSDF] employees, Yokota Defense Office [YDO] employees, North
       Kanto Defense Bureau [NKDB] employees, etc.), contract employees with approved
       logistical support, IAW established policies.
   3.4. Category IV:
       3.4.1. Honorary Members of the Tama Hills Golf Course.
   3.5. Category V:
       3.5.1. Friends of Yokota Association Members.
       3.5.2. Others as approved by 374 AW/CC and/or his/her designee to include non-SOFA
       status groups and local civic organizations, supporting the military community.
4. Installation Entry. Entry into the THRA will be subject to all directives and requirements
IAW Air Force Instruction (AFI) 31-101 Yokota ABI 31-101, Yokota Air Base Installation
Security Program, 30 May 2012.
5. Lodging.
   5.1. Lodging Reservations.
       5.1.1. Category I personnel may secure reservations 120 days in advance on a first come,
       first serve basis. Category II personnel may secure reservations 120 days in advance on a
       first come, first serve basis for Sunday – Thursday and 90 days in advance on a first
       come, first serve basis for Friday and Saturday. Category III personnel may secure
       reservations on a space available basis, 60 days in advance for stays from Sunday through
       Thursday (excluding the night before US holidays and 374 AW Family/Down Days) and
       7 days in advance for stays on Friday and Saturdays. Category IV personnel may secure
       reservations on a space available basis, 10 days in advance, only applicable for stays from
       Sunday through Thursday (excluding the night before US holidays and 374 AW
       Family/Down Days). Category V personnel may secure reservations on a space available
       basis, 7 days in advance, only applicable for stays from Sunday through Thursday
       (excluding the night before US holidays and 374 AW Family/Down Days).
       5.1.2. Reservations will be guaranteed for authorized patrons on a first-come, first-served
       basis, regardless of rank, grade or status, when the application is accompanied by an
       advance deposit of one night room/cabin rental per room requested. A confirmed
       reservation is guaranteed upon receipt of credit card approval. Guaranteed reservations
       are not transferable.
       5.1.3. Reservations must be canceled at least 72 hours (3 days) prior to the scheduled
       check-in date to receive a refund of advance reservation deposits. A no-show/late
       cancellation forfeiture fee is charged when a guaranteed reservation holder fails to cancel
       at least 72 hours (3 days) prior to scheduled check-in date, or to claim the reservation
       prior to 2200 hrs (10:00 pm) on the scheduled arrival date. The fee will be equivalent to
       one night lodging fee. Exceptions may be made on a case-by-case basis in circumstances
       of valid duty-related or emergency instances.
4                                                   YOKOTAABI34-110 29 OCTOBER 2014


       5.1.4. Guaranteed reservations will be canceled for patrons who have not checked in by
       2200 hrs (10:00 pm) on the scheduled check-in date, unless specific notification of late or
       delayed arrival has been received in advance.
       5.1.5. Check-in cannot be assured prior to 1500 hrs (3:00 pm). However, if the rooms
       and/or cabins are cleaned and available for occupancy prior to 1500 hrs (3:00 pm),
       patrons will be allowed to check in early.
       5.1.6. Checkout is 1100 hrs (11:00 am). Late checkout cannot be assured prior to
       checkout date and is predicated on availability of rooms/cabins.
       5.1.7. Reservation requests that exceed the normal bed capacity of a guestroom will not
       be accepted. Applicants will be required to take additional guest rooms whenever there
       are more people in a family or party than one room can accommodate, based upon the
       type and number of beds, age, sex, and family relationships of the patrons and guests.
       5.1.8. All reservations are subject to cancellation on short notice dependent upon USAF
       requirements.
       5.1.9. Key staff members of Tama Hills Recreation Complex may remain in the facility
       overnight on a space available basis when in direct support of scheduled programs or for
       additional security. The 374th Force Support Community Services Flight Chief and/or
       his/her designee have authority to approve on a case-by-case basis at no cost.
       5.1.10. Official military or approved special functions to include conferences, off-sites,
       weddings, and social events, regardless of assigned installation or service, may make
       reservations up to 1 year in advance.
    5.2. Guests: A guest is a person who would normally be a guest in the private home or
    quarters of the authorized THRA patron and has been legally sponsored onto THRA by the
    patron.
       5.2.1. Category I and II patron’s are authorized two additional guestrooms in addition to
       the patron's room.
       5.2.2. Category III, IV and V patron’s are authorized one additional guestroom in
       addition to the patron's room.
       5.2.3. The patron must be registered in the lodge and assume all responsibilities for the
       guest during such occupancy.
       5.2.4. The patron shall pay all guestroom charges for his or her guests.
    5.3. Distinguished Visitor (DV) Suite, Shogun Cabin and Samurai Cabin. Non-SOFA status
    personnel will not be authorized to reserve the DV Suite, the Shogun Cabin or the Samurai
    Cabin. Exceptions to this policy may be approved by the 374th Mission Support Group
    Commander (374 MSG/CC).
       5.3.1. The DV Suite is room 218 in the main lodge. The Shogun Cabin is building #395.
       Reservations for the DV Suite and Shogun Cabin will be made through the central
       reservation desk. Advanced reservations up to 120 days are authorized for General
       Officers, SES Civilians, Group or Squadron Commanders/Civilian Directors of Yokota
       AB, O-6’s assigned to Yokota AB and GS-15 Civilians assigned to Yokota AB. The 374
YOKOTAABI34-110 29 OCTOBER 2014                                                                5


      AW/CC may cancel existing reservations for these accommodation units when a
      minimum of 7 days advanced notice is provided to the guest.
          5.3.1.1. Disputes regarding priority usage relating to rank designations will be
          resolved by the 374 AW/CC or his designated representative.
          5.3.1.2. In cases where the DV Suite and Shogun Cabin have not been reserved by
          those on the priority list 30 days in advance on Sunday through Thursday and 7 days
          in advance on Friday or Saturday of the date of occupancy, Category I and II SOFA
          status personnel may reserve the room/cabin on a night-by-night basis with the
          consent of the General Manager or his/her designated representative.
      5.3.2. Samurai Cabin: The Samurai Cabin is Building #281. Reservations will be made
      through the central reservation desk in the following order of precedence: All active duty
      E-9's assigned to Yokota Air Base may reserve the Samurai Cabin 120 days in advance.
      Category I and II SOFA status personnel may reserve the cabin 60 days in advance.
      5.3.3. The DV suite, Shogun and Samurai Cabins may only be reserved for a maximum
      of 3 consecutive nights per reservation and no more than 1 weekend per month per
      sponsor. Exceptions to this policy will not be authorized without the consent of the
      Chief, 374 FSS Community Service Flight and/or his/her representative.
   5.3.4. Waiting lists will be maintained for the DV Suite, Shogun Cabin and Samurai Cabin
   in the order requests are received within 120 days and in accordance with the authorizations
   granted to the patron’s category status. The lists will be coordinated by the Reservation Desk
   and monitored by the THRA General Manager with only 3 days permitted by a single patron
   for any unit during a given month. Exceptions to this policy will not be authorized without
   the consent of the Chief, 374 FSS Community Service Flight and/or his/her representative.
6. Red Horse Cabin, Shizuka Cabin, Regular Cabins, Campsites and Picnic Areas.
   6.1. Red Horse Cabin, Shizuka Cabin, regular cabins, campsites and picnic areas are
   reserved as outlined in paragraph 5.1.1. above.
   6.2. Official military or approved special functions to include conferences, off-sites,
   weddings, and social events, regardless of assigned installation or service, may make
   reservations up to 1 year in advance.
   6.3. Youth groups, scouting organizations and religious retreats, of primarily SOFA
   sponsored personnel, regardless of assigned installation or service, subject to the consent of
   the General Manager or his/her designated representative, may make reservations for the
   camp area facilities and campsites up to 1 year in advance.
   6.4. Reservations must be canceled at least 72 hours (3 days) prior to the scheduled check-in
   date. A no-show/late cancellation penalty will be charged when a guaranteed reservation
   holder fails to cancel at least 72 hours (3 days) prior to the scheduled check-in date. The
   penalty for a no-show/late cancellation will be a restriction on reservations for 3 months.
   Exceptions may be made on a case-by-case basis in circumstances of valid duty-related or
   emergency instances.
   6.5. Guaranteed reservations for the Red Horse Cabin, Shizuka Cabin, regular cabins or
   campsites will be canceled for patrons who have not checked in by 1900 hrs (7:00 pm) on the
 6                                                    YOKOTAABI34-110 29 OCTOBER 2014


     scheduled check-in date, unless specific notification of late or delayed arrival has been
     received in advance.
     6.6. Check-in for the Red Horse Cabin, Shizuka Cabin, regular cabins or campsites cannot
     be assured prior to 1500 hrs (3:00 pm). However, if the cabins/campsites are cleaned and
     available prior to 1500 hrs (3:00 pm), patrons will be allowed to check-in early.
     6.7. Check-out for the Red Horse Cabin, Shizuka Cabin, regular cabins or campsites is 1100
     hrs (11:00 am). Late check-out cannot be assured prior to check-out date and is predicated
     on availability of campsite.
     6.8. Reservation requests that exceed the normal tent capacity of a campsite will not be
     accepted. Applicants will be required to take additional campsites whenever there are more
     tent requirements than a specific campsite can accommodate
7. Outdoor Recreation Equipment Rental.
     7.1. Outdoor recreation equipment is reserved as outlined in paragraph 5.1.1. above.
     7.2. Official military functions to include conferences, off-sites and social events, regardless
     of assigned installation or service, may make reservations up to 1 year in advance.
     7.3. Youth groups, scouting organizations and religious retreats, of primarily SOFA
     sponsored personnel, regardless of assigned installation or service, subject to the consent of
     the General Manager or his/her designated representative, may make reservations for up to 1
     year in advance.
     7.4. Family members must be 18 years old to check-out outdoor recreation equipment.
     7.5. Items identified by “Res.” on the fees list may be reserved. Items not picked up by the
     scheduled reservation time become available for issue to other customers. Individuals
     desiring to reserve equipment must do so in person or by calling the Tama Outdoor
     Recreation office. Equipment reservations do not require an advance deposit.
8. Paintball Games and Horseback Riding Stables.
     8.1. Horseback trail rides and open paintball games are strictly “first come, first serve” basis
     for Category I and II personnel, followed by Category III, IV and V in priority order on a
     space available basis.
     8.2. Family members must be 18 years old to sign up for horseback riding services and
     paintball games. Age/height restrictions as established in the current horseback riding
     services concessionaire agreement will be applicable. Age restriction and procedures for
     paintball will be as established in the 374th Mission Support Group Tama Hills Recreation
     Area (374 FSS/FSCL) Operating Instruction 34-23, Outdoor Recreation Paintball Program.
     8.3. Private horseback riding lessons and private paintball games are reserved as outlined in
     paragraph 5.1.1. above. At a minimum, private horseback riding lessons must be reserved at
     least 5 days in advance and private paintball games must be reserved at least 14 days in
     advance. Exceptions may be made on a case-by-case basis as determined by the supervisory
     recreation specialist. Reservations will be guaranteed when the reservation is accompanied
     by an advance deposit in the entire amount of the requested service. A confirmed reservation
     is guaranteed upon receipt of credit card approval. Guaranteed reservations are not
     transferable. Reservations must be canceled at least 72 hours (3 days) prior to the scheduled
YOKOTAABI34-110 29 OCTOBER 2014                                                               7


  reservation date. A no-show/late cancellation forfeiture fee will be charged when a
  guaranteed reservation holder fails to cancel at least 72 hours (3 days) prior to scheduled
  reservation date/time. Cancellation fee for 48 – 72 hours prior will be 25% of the deposit, 24
  – 47 hours prior will be 50% off the deposit and a no show – 23 hours prior fee will be $75%
  of the deposit. Exceptions may be made on a case-by-case basis in circumstances of valid
  duty-related or emergency instances.




                                           DOUGLAS C. DELAMATER, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 8                                             YOKOTAABI34-110 29 OCTOBER 2014


                                     Attachment 1
        GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
DV—Distinguished Visitor
IHA—Indirect Hire Agreement
JSDF—Japan Self-Defense Force
MLC—Master Labor Contract
NKDB—North Kanto Defense Bureau
THRA—Tama Hills Recreation Area
YDO—Yokota Defense Office
