BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                         YOKOTA AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 48-107
374TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                 20 JUNE 2012

                                                                            Aerospace Medicine

                                                               HEAT STRESS MONITORING



              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 374 AMDS/SGPB                                                   Certified by: 374 MDG/CC
                                                                                (Col Lee Harvis)
Supersedes:   374 AWI 48-107,                                                          Pages: 12
              9 October 2003


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 48-1, Aerospace Medical
Program, and describes procedures designed to protect personnel, who are exposed to severe
weather while performing duties at Yokota Air Base (AB), from the adverse health effects from
heat stress. This instruction applies to all personnel assigned, attached, or associated with the
374th Airlift Wing (374 AW). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed
in this publication are maintained in accordance (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and dispose of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)        Records      Disposition     Schedule      (RDS)      located     at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through
their appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: adding responsibilities of commanders (paragraph 3.1.), updated responsibilities of
supervisors & work center personnel (paragraphs 3.2. and 3.3.). Significantly changed
Bioenvironmental Engineering responsibilities to ensure heat stress is based on WBGT and not
dry bulb per AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury. Changed and updated 374 OSS Weather Flight
responsibilities (paragraph 3.6.). Updated paragraph 4., Heat Stress Management, with more
background information. Attachment 2, renamed to Guidelines for personnel wearing hot
weather BDU and Standard Work Clothing, significantly changed with removal of dry bulb
 2                                                          YOKOTAABI48-107 20 JUNE 2012


references and renumbered to Attachment 3. Included new attachments: Sample Thermal Stress
Training Aid (Attachment 2) and Guide to Determination of Workload (Attachment 4).
1. References and Terms Explained: See Attachment 1.
2. Concept: This instruction provides unit commanders and supervisors with information and
guidance to operate continuously in a severe hot environment. This instruction is to be applied
in peacetime, contingency, and exercise operations.
3. Responsibilities:
     3.1. Unit Commanders are responsible for the health and safety of the members of their unit
     and will:
        3.1.1. Ensure individuals under their command are aware of thermal stress hazards and
        prevention methods.
        3.1.2. During training exercises when personnel wear the ground crew chemical defense
        ensemble, ensure supervisors and workers are trained to recognize the early signs of heat
        stress and the methods to minimize associated effects.
     3.2. Supervisors are responsible for the implementation of health and safety in workplaces.
     Work center supervisors will:
        3.2.1. Brief workers annually on the health hazards of thermal stress, the Wet Bulb
        Globe Temperature (WBGT) index, notification procedures, and appropriate preventive
        measures. Document this on AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record.
        Supervisors may use Attachment 2 to conduct their briefings.
        3.2.2. Disseminate the thermal stress index to workers when informed through
        Command Post of updated conditions.
        3.2.3. Brief workers on the signs and symptoms of heat stress disorders and how to
        minimize effects of heat stress during exercises when wearing the ground crew ensemble
        or other similarly impermeable clothing. Make adjustments to the WBGT index as
        indicated in the notes to Attachment 3.
        3.2.4. Ensure personnel and aircrews working outside in hot environments increase their
        fluid intake and implement appropriate work/rest cycles.
        3.2.5. Ensure all personnel are acclimatized in accordance with paragraph 4.4.2.
        3.2.6. Report all thermal stress illnesses documented on AF Form 190, Occupational
        Illness/Injury Report.
     3.3. Work Center Personnel will:
        3.3.1. Maintain awareness of existing or potential thermal stress situations within their
        workplace.
        3.3.2. Understand the signs and symptoms of thermal stress and the first aid measures.
        3.3.3. Follow the prevention directives of commanders and supervisors.
        3.3.4. Monitor co-workers for heat stress symptoms.
        3.3.5. Report all thermal stress illnesses to the work center supervisor.
YOKOTAABI48-107 20 JUNE 2012                                                                  3


   3.4. 374th Aerospace Medicine Squadron Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) (374
   AMDS/SGPB) will:
      3.4.1. Measure and determine the WBGT Index.
      3.4.2. Report thermal stress measurements to 374 AW Command Post, 374 Operations
      Support Squadron Weather Flight for dissemination to base personnel.
      3.4.3. Provide commanders and supervisors with risk assessments, upon request, for
      conducting tasks outside guidelines established in this instruction.
      3.4.4. Ensure thermal stress measurements and guidance are available throughout normal
      duty hours during the duty week and if warranted, in support of weekend
      operations/exercises.
      3.4.5. Conduct thermal stress evaluations upon special request or as part of routine
      industrial hygiene surveillance, if warranted.
      3.4.6. Investigate all thermal stress illnesses documented on AF Form 190, Occupational
      Illness/Injury Report.
   3.5. 374 AMDS Public Health (374 AMDS/SGPM) will:
      3.5.1. Provide training information on the effects and risks of heat stress for workers
      routinely exposed to extreme temperature environments.
      3.5.2. Provide training to supervisors, upon request, for workplaces without routine,
      occupational exposure to extreme temperature environments.
   3.6. 374th Operations Support Squadron Weather flight (374 OSS/OSW) will:
      3.6.1. Provide alternate support for reporting heat stress categories when BE is unable to
      disseminate information through JET and display a heat category slide on the Yokota
      weather channel.
      3.6.2. Provide BE with training on the Joint Environmental Toolkit system.
   3.7. The 374 AW Command Post (374 AW/CP) will: Only when there is a change in heat
   categories, notify 374 AW Maintenance Operations Center (MOC) (374 AW/CPM), group
   commanders, base operations, main gymnasium, 730th Air Mobility Squadron Air Mobility
   Command Center (730 AMS/AMCC).
      3.7.1. Only when there is a change in heat categories, the 374 AW/CPM will broadcast
      all appropriate heat stress conditions to flight line production supervisors via the Land
      Mobile Radios (LMR).
4. Heat Stress Management:
   4.1. Background.     Heat stress is the thermal exposure to the body.          Historical
   Bioenvironmental Engineering (BE) heat stress records indicate Yokota AB experiences
   conditions of hazardous heat stress from May through September. During days of high
   relative humidity the evaporation of sweat, the body’s cooling mechanism, is slowed.
   Increased sweating demands more water consumption to maintain the body’s cooling system.
   4.2. Measurement. BES measures heat stress by the WBGT index. This index takes into
   account the dry bulb (air temperature), wet bulb (relative humidity and evaporative
4                                                         YOKOTAABI48-107 20 JUNE 2012


    effectiveness of the air and wind), and black globe (heating by direct rays of the sun). This
    methodology is recommended by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial
    Hygienists (ACGIH) as the best way to evaluate heat stress on the body.
    4.3. Reporting. BES will monitor the WBGT at 0800, 1000, 1200, 1400 and 1600, Monday
    through Friday, excluding holidays and down days, as appropriate for the weather conditions.
    This will be done between the end of May to the middle of September of each year. The last
    heat category at 1600 will be in effect until sunset then start over the next duty day. Heat
    categories/WBGT are not applicable on rainy days and after sunset. The WBGT index will
    be reported to the base weather, command post for dissemination to base personnel.
    4.4. Guidance.
       4.4.1. Occupational Heat Stress Exposure. Personnel acclimatized to the local area are
       better able to cope with the hot temperatures at Yokota AB. All newly arrived personnel
       from cooler climates should become acclimated before attempting any strenuous activity
       or exercise.
       4.4.2. Acclimatization. Newly arriving personnel, personnel returning from TDY, or
       personnel leaving TDY to a different hot environment, should be allowed a two-week
       period to become acclimated to the new environment. Acclimatization is not a license to
       avoid work, but it is a requirement to avoid possible heat illness or injury. To
       acclimatize, personnel should perform typically required duties in the hot environment,
       but at a slower pace with more frequent breaks. Acclimatization is a series of
       physiological adjustments that occur when an individual is exposed to hot climates. A
       period of acclimatization is required for all personnel regardless of each individual’s
       physical condition. Acclimatization is achieved through progressive degrees of heat
       exposure and physical exertion. Acclimatization to heat begins with the first exposure
       and is usually developed to 50 percent by the end of the first week. Substantial
       acclimatization (about 78 percent) should occur by the end of the second week. The
       better an individual’s physical condition, the quicker the acclimatization is achieved.
       4.4.3. Aerobics and Exercise. During the summer months, commanders should schedule
       outdoor aerobics and exercise during the morning hours and avoid flag conditions that
       exceed 88 degrees on the WBGT. This scheduling will help to reduce the potential for
       undue heat stress. Extreme caution is warranted for any aerobics conducted when the
       WBGT Index exceeds 90.
       4.4.4. Water. It is best to drink small amounts of water frequently (a pint every twenty
       minutes) to replace water than to drink large amounts less frequently. Sudden drinking of
       large amounts of water stimulates urination, causing the body to lose water more quickly.
       Milk and coffee do not make up for water loss. Carbonated beverages, while containing
       water, are not as effective as water in keeping the body hydrated because of the tendency
       to delay gastric emptying. Alcohol is a dehydrating beverage and should not be
       consumed for 24 hours prior to working in a hot environment. A guideline for amount of
       water needed by personnel exposed to heat is contained in Attachment 3. Note that
       workers can check their hydration level by observing the color of their urine. Clear,
       odorless urine indicates adequate hydration. Yellow urine indicates the worker needs
       more water.
YOKOTAABI48-107 20 JUNE 2012                                                                  5


     4.4.5. Wear of Personal Protective Equipment. Personnel wearing impervious clothing
     such as security police body armor, rain gear at the wash rack, fire-fighting suits, paint
     coveralls, respirator, and similar attire, should take special precaution as this equipment
     adds to the metabolic heat load and hinders the body’s ability to cool itself. Supervisors
     should add 5-15 degrees to the WBGT Index when determining workplace conduct
     outdoors. A guideline for the amount of WBGT index to add when wearing body armor,
     ground crew ensemble, etc. is contained in the notes to Attachment 3.
     4.4.6. Maximum Work Load Guidance. If mission-essential tasks are required under
     extreme heat conditions, activities in the direct sun should be avoided and workers should
     be observed for water consumption and signs of heat illness. The Bioenvironmental
     Engineering representative in areas requiring MOPP wear will provide further guidance
     depending on the existing conditions.




                                          WILLIAM M. KNIGHT, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander, 374th Airlift Wing
 6                                                     YOKOTAABI48-107 20 JUNE 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFEFENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 10-2503, Operations in A Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Yield
Explosive (Cbrne) Environment, 7 July 2011
AFPD 48-1, Aerospace Medical Program, 23 August 2011
AFPAM 48-151, Thermal Injury, 18 November 2002
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Threshold Limit Values for Chemical Substances and Physical Agents, American Conference of
Governmental Industrial Hygienists, 2009.
Adopted Forms
AF Form 55, Employee Safety and Health Record
AF Form 190, Occupational Illness/Injury Report
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Terms
Dry Bulb Temperature—The temperature of the air without regard to the effects of humidity,
radiant heat of the sun, or wind.
Heat Stress Condition—A four level advisory based on the risk of injury or illness due to the
effects of working in extreme temperatures.
Condition Green—The risk of heat-related injury or illness is real, but typical workloads can
continue with proper hydration, clothing, and surveillance. All outdoor workers should have
current training on the symptoms of overexposure and first aid measures. Implement work and
rest cycles as appropriate.
Condition Yellow—The risk of heat-related injury or illness is significant. Work practices
should be modified to properly manage the risks. Worker surveillance and education should be
increased. Force hydration. Consider reassigning workers not acclimatized who are performing
moderate and heavy tasks in hot environments to duties protected from extreme temperatures.
Implement work and rest cycles as appropriate.
Condition Red—The risk of heat-related injury or illness is high. Work practices must be
modified to properly manage the risks. Workers should be monitored constantly and education
should be conducted at least weekly. Reassign workers not acclimatized, who are performing
moderate and heavy tasks in hot environments, to duties protected from extreme temperatures.
Implement work and rest cycles as appropriate.
Condition Black—The risk of heat-related injury or illness is severe. For heavy work in hot
environments, only emergency and mission critical tasks should be conducted outdoors.
Implement work and rest cycles as appropriate.
YOKOTAABI48-107 20 JUNE 2012                                                                  7


Wet Bulb Globe Temperature (WBGT)—A method of measuring temperature to more
accurately describe how the human body perceives the relative heat of an environment. It adjusts
the dry bulb temperature for the effect of humidity, the cooling effect of evaporation, and the
warming effect of the radiant heat from the sun.
 8                                                           YOKOTAABI48-107 20 JUNE 2012


                                           Attachment 2
                       SAMPLE THERMAL STRESS TRAINING AID

A2.1. Heat Stress
     A2.1.1. Personnel working and/or training in hot environments can prevent heat injury by
     understanding the risk factors and causes, taking practical preventive measures, recognizing
     the symptoms, and knowing the appropriate first-aid treatment for common heat injuries and
     heat-related illnesses.
     A2.1.2. Individual Risk Factors for Heat Injury. There is wide variation in human tolerance
     to heat stress. Consider the following personal factors when assessing individual heat injury
     risk:
        A2.1.2.1. Obesity.
        A2.1.2.2. Lack of physical fitness and/or lack of sleep.
        A2.1.2.3. Recent alcohol intake.
        A2.1.2.4. Concurrent mild illness e.g., diarrhea, viral illness, fever.
        A2.1.2.5. Dehydration.
        A2.1.2.6. Medication or illegal drugs.
        A2.1.2.7. The presence of a heat rash or acute sunburn.
     A2.1.3. Precautionary Measures. Apply the following general precautionary measures when
     working in a hot environment:
        A2.1.3.1. Water. Adhere to the hydration requirements for the current heat category and
        work rate. Drink small amounts of water more frequently and avoid caffeinated drinks
        like soda and coffee. Dilute sports drinks to half strength (1 part water: 1 part beverage
        or 2 parts water: 1 part beverage powder) for optimal fluid replacement.
        A2.1.3.2. Sodium Intake. Some salt is lost in perspiration. Maintain a normal diet,
        season food to taste, and don’t skip any meals. Do not use salt tablets except under
        special operating conditions when ordered by competent medical authority.
        A2.1.3.3. Clothing. Wear loose fitting clothing, especially at the neck and wrist, to allow
        air circulation. Military wear the hot weather Battle Dress Uniform (BDU). Wear
        appropriate headgear. Cover yourself and apply a sun-blocking lotion to prevent sunburn
        when exposed to the sun’s rays.
        A2.1.3.4. Work Schedules. Modify work schedules to perform the heaviest work in the
        coolest parts of the day. Adhere to the work/rest cycles appropriate to the current heat
        category and work rate.
        A2.1.3.5. Food. Avoid eating greasy, fatty, or heavy foods. Don’t perform heavy work
        in the heat after eating a glucose or high carbohydrate meal.
        A2.1.3.6. Medical Treatment. Seek medical treatment for illnesses and skin problems,
        including rashes.
YOKOTAABI48-107 20 JUNE 2012                                                                   9


     A2.1.3.7. Other. Avoid the use of sweat inhibiting deodorants.
  A2.1.4. Recognizing and Treating Heat Stress Disorders. Recognition of heat illness is the
  key principle in treatment and management. In general, treat any individuals with the
  following signs or symptoms during physical activity in a hot environment or while wearing
  protective clothing as if they are suffering from heat illness:
     A2.1.4.1. Dizziness or confusion.
     A2.1.4.2. Nausea or vomiting.
     A2.1.4.3. Staggering.
     A2.1.4.4. Blurred vision.
     A2.1.4.5. Confusion, collapse or loss of consciousness.
  A2.1.5. Common Heat Stress Disorders and Treatment.
     A2.1.5.1. Sunburn. Unprotected exposure to sun can cause sunburn, accelerate skin
     aging, may cause drug photosensitization and depress skin immune responses. Sunburn
     also increases the risks of skin cancer. Altitude and reflective surfaces such as fresh ice,
     snow, sand, metal, concrete and wind increase the risk and severity of sunburn.
         A2.1.5.1.1. Sunburn Prevention and Treatment. Clothing and sunscreens according
         to skin type can prevent sunburn. Sunscreens are to protect against ultraviolet (UV)
         A and UV B and provide a minimum sun protective factor of 15. Severe sunburn
         (blistering) requires immediate medical treatment. Treat mild sunburn as follows:
            A2.1.5.1.1.1. Avoid further exposure.
            A2.1.5.1.1.2. Cool soak with tap water.
            A2.1.5.1.1.3. Apply emollients.
            A2.1.5.1.1.4. Use Aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
            A2.1.5.1.1.5. Apply topical steroids.
     A2.1.5.2. The following table lists the most common heat stress disorders, symptoms,
     and first aid treatment:
 10                                                      YOKOTAABI48-107 20 JUNE 2012




Table A2.1. Symptoms and First-Aid Treatment for Heat Stress Disorders
      Disorder                  Symptoms                                First Aid
                   Brief fainting or near-fainting       Remove to cool, shaded environment,
Heat Syncope       when standing erect and immobile,     allow to recline, and provide cool
                   normal temperature.                   water
                   Painful spasms, usually in muscles    Remove to cool area. Apply firm
                   of legs and abdomen, and heavy        pressure on cramping muscles or
Heat Cramps        sweating.                             gently massage to relieve spasm.
                                                         Give sips of water. If nausea occurs,
                                                         discontinue use.
                   Cramps in abdomen or limbs. Pale      Treat for shock. Lay person down in
                   face, dizziness, faintness, and       cool area, give cool water, and cool
                   weakness. Loss of appetite, nausea    body by sprinkling with water or
Heat Exhaustion
                   or vomiting, profuse sweating,        fanning (not to point of shivering).
                   moist, cool skin, and weak pulse.     Loosen clothing; seek medical
                   Normal body temperature.              attention.
                   Headache, dizziness, red face/skin,   Call medical facility first. Treat for
                   hot, dry skin (no sweating), and      shock; lay person down in cool area
                   rapid pulse. High body temp (hot      and raise legs. DO NOT give fluids;
Heatstroke
                   to touch) and possible                cool body by sprinkling with warm or
MEDICAL
                   unconsciousness.                      tepid water or fanning (not to point of
EMERGENCY
                                                         shivering). DO NOT use ice packs,
                                                         cold sponging, or blow cold air.
                                                         Loosen or remove clothing.
                   Condition in which the level of       Call medical facility first. This
                   sodium in the blood is markedly       condition is difficult to distinguish
                   lowered as a result of sodium         from heat exhaustion and heat stroke,
                   lost in sweat, coupled with fluid     and if suspected should be treated
                   replacement using only large          immediately in a medical facility.
Hyponatremia       volumes of plain water (greater
MEDICAL            than 1 ½ quarts per hour).
EMERGENCY          Confusion, fatigue, muscle
                   cramps, and nausea early on,
                   followed later by vomiting,
                   unconsciousness, seizures, and
                   death if not recognized and treated
                   promptly.
        YOKOTAABI48-107 20 JUNE 2012                                                                             11


                                                      Attachment 3
        GUIDELINES FOR PERSONNEL WEARING HOT WEATHER BDU AND STANDARD
                                WORK CLOTHING

        Table A3.1. Guidelines for Average Acclimatized Individual Wearing BDU, Hot Weather
        or Standard Clothing
 Heat          WBGT
                                                          MODERATE
Category       Index           LIGHT WORK                                                  HEAVY WORK
                                                           WORK
                (F)
                                                       Work/Re
                            Work/Res        *Water              *Water Work/Res
                                                          st
                                t           Intake              Intake      t                  *Water Intake (Qt/hr)
                                                       (min/min
                            (min/min)       (Qt/hr)             (Qt/hr) (min/min)
                                                           )
 1 (None)      78 – 81.9     No Limit          ½        No Limit        ¾          40/20                   ¾
2 (Green)      82 – 84.9     No Limit          ½          50/10         ¾          30/30                    1
3 (Yellow)     85 – 87.9     No Limit          ¾          40/20         ¾          30/30                    1
 4 (Red)       88 – 89.9     No Limit          ¾          30/30         ¾          20/40                    1
5 (Black)        > 90          50/10           1          20/40          1         10/50                    1
                                                        NOTES
1. Work/rest cycle recommendations are based on personnel who are fully acclimatized, optimally conditioned, hydrated,
and rested.
2. Rest means minimal physical activity (sitting or standing) and should be accomplished in the shade if possible.
3. Drink small amounts of water throughout the work period, not all at once. Individual water need will vary +/- 1/4
4. These values will sustain performance and hydration for at least 4 hours of work in the specified heat category.
(Values are based on US Army Research Institute for Environmental Medicine recommendations; US Army policy.)
5. When performing activities with ground crew ensemble, fire-fighting gear, or other restrictive or impermeable
clothing, add 10o F to the measurement (add 15o F if also wearing body armor). These adjustments account for the
clothing and equipment effects on evaporative cooling (increased barrier) and any increase in work due to the additional
load.
*CAUTION: Hourly fluid intake should not exceed 1 1/2 quarts; daily fluid intake should not exceed 12 quarts.
Rapid ingestion of large amounts of water (greater than 1 1/2 quarts per hour) may lead to hyponatremia (acute water
intoxication), which is a life-threatening condition that may lead to weakness, convulsions, loss of consciousness, and
death if not recognized and treated promptly.
 12                                                   YOKOTAABI48-107 20 JUNE 2012


                                      Attachment 4
                   GUIDE TO DETERMINATION OF WORKLOAD

Table A4.1. Guide to Determination of Workload
        LIGHT WORK                MODERATE WORK                       HARD WORK
--Walking on hard surface @   --Walking on hard surface @      --Walking on hard surface @
2.5 mph with < 30 lb load     3.5 mph < 40 lb load             3.5 mph with > 40 lb load
--Weapon maintenance          --Walking on loose sand at 2.5   --Walking on loose sand @
--Manual arms                 mph with no load                 2.5 mph with load
--Marksmanship training       --Patrolling                     --Armament crew
--Drill and ceremony          --Low crawl, high crawl          --Heavy aircraft repair
--Tower operations            --Defensive position             --Specialized teams such as
--Operations NCOs/officers    construction                     NBC
--Pilot ground activities     --Calisthenics                   Reconnaissance, Search and
--Command post and unit       --Refueling                      Rescue,
control center activities     --Avionics shop                  Rapid Runway Repair, CCA,
                              --Aircraft maintenance           Fire
                              --Unit post attack               Protection, Decontamination,
                              reconnaissance                   Medical, Damage Assessment
                                                               and Repair, EOD
