BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                       YOKOTA AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 34-101
374 AIRLIFT WING
                                                                          6 FEBRUARY 2013

                                                                                      Services

                                                                  CONTROL, CARE, AND
                                                            IMMUNIZATION OF PETS (PA)


              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 374 FSS/FSC                                                    Certified by: 374 MSG/CC
                                                                   (Colonel Edward R. Brown)
                                                                                      Pages: 6
Supersedes:   374 AWI 34-101,
              21 April 1999


This instruction assigns responsibilities and establishes procedures for the control, care, and
immunization of pets. It applies to all personnel and organizations assigned to Yokota Air Base
(AB). This instruction requires collecting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy
Act of 1974 authorized by 10 U.S.C. Section 3013, Secretary of the Army; 10 U.S.C. 5013,
Secretary of the Navy; 10 U.S.C. 8013, Secretary of the Air Force; DoD Directive 6400.4, DoD
Veterinary Services Program; AR 40-905, SECNAVIST 6401.1B, AFI 48-131, Veterinary
Health Services; and E.O. 9397 (SSN). Ensure that all records created as a result of processes
prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN)
33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of IAW the Air Force Records Information
Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through
their appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This revision supersedes 374 AW Instruction (374 AWI) 34-101; changes responsibility of
owners (paragraph 2.1.2.); clarifies Housing restrictions for number of pets (2) and other
concerns (Yokota ABPAM 32-6001); removes registration requirement for rabbits; changes
terms explained.
 2                                                    YOKOTAABI34-101 6 FEBRUARY 2013


1. Terms Explained. See Attachment 1.
2. Responsibilities Assigned.
     2.1. Owners will ensure:
        2.1.1. Pets are properly registered and micro chipped at the veterinary treatment facility
        within 3 working days of arrival, receive required immunizations, and wear the issued
        identification tag at all times.
        2.1.2. Proper disposition to include: Deregister from Veterinary Services any animal
        leaving the country. Reregister pets with new owner information when there is a change
        of ownership.
        2.1.3. Pets showing a vicious or dangerous nature are not maintained on this installation.
        2.1.4. No more than 2 pets are maintained per household (this restriction applies only to
        dogs and cats).
     2.2. Veterinary Services will:
        2.2.1. Advise the 374th Airlift Wing Commander (374 AW/CC) or the designee on pet
        neglect cases, vicious pets, and the pet disease control program, as well as administer
        required immunizations to pets and issue rabies identification tags.
        2.2.2. Post quarantine areas and provide written instructions to owners when quarantine
        enforcement is needed.
        2.2.3. Assist base officials in determining the need, and recommended method, for
        disposal of any pet believed to be a danger to the public.
        2.2.4. Inform the 374th Security Forces Squadron (374 SFS) of any dangerous behaviors
        to include attempted or actual scratches, bites, or attacks by pets.
        2.2.5. Implant microchips for permanent identification and maintain a database of all
        registered animals.
        2.2.6. Have the authority to euthanize animals that must be disposed of.
     2.3. The 374th Civil Engineer Squadron (374 CES/Entomology) will:
        2.3.1. Dispose of animal carcasses found on base.
        2.3.2. Capture any pet not under control or any stray found on the installation.
        2.3.3. Turn over any pet not under control or any stray to the Yokota Pet Adoption
        Center.
     2.4. The Yokota Pet Adoption Center is operated by 374 FSS/FSCV. The Yok ota Pet
     Adoption Center will:
        2.4.1. Operate a holding facility for pets for possible adoption.
        2.4.2. Take into custody animals captured by 374 CES/Entomology (i.e., any pet which
        is not under control; not wearing an identification tag; causing a nuisance; or which is
        declared to be a danger to itself, other pets, or to persons other than the owner). When
        the Pet Adoption Center is closed, the individual dropping off the animal will complete
YOKOTAABI34-101 6 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                 3


       required paperwork, and place on the cage. When Pet Boarding staff is present, they will
       complete required paperwork.
       2.4.3. Advise Veterinary Services of all suspected pet abuse or neglect cases.
       2.4.4. Return safe pets to their respective owners when the pets are identified from collar
       and tag or microchip identification.
       2.4.5. Take control of stray, lost, or feral cats or dogs. Any animals unclaimed after 5
       days will become property of the Pet Adoption Facility. Animals will be evaluated by the
       Pet Adoption Facility staff and Veterinary Services for possible adoption. Any animals
       unfit for adoption may be euthanized. All other animals will be held for a period of at
       least 30 days after which a determination of whether or not to euthanize will be made
       considering space and adoptability.
       2.4.6. When proof of ownership can be determined, 374 FSS/FSCV will charge owners
       for boarding along with other related fees.
   2.5. 374 SFS will:
       2.5.1. Receive complaints and maintain administrative records of incidents and
       complaints involving pets, and forward an incident report to the owner's commander
       when an owner violates this instruction.
       2.5.2. Completes an initial entry in the daily blotters on captured animals by Security
       Forces.
   2.6. 374 MDG will:
       2.6.1. Establish a rabies advisory team IAW AFI 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and
       Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health or Military Significance.
       2.6.2. Immediately report any bite/scratch incident to 374 SFS.
       2.6.3. Initiate a DD Form 2341, Report of Animal Bite-Potential Rabies Exposure, IAW
       AFI 48-105 for all SOFA status personnel who have been bitten or scratched and
       presented at the MTF for treatment. Veterinary Service personnel will examine the
       animal and institute applicable quarantine measures IAW AFI 48-131, Veterinary Health
       Services. Non-SOFA status/local national personnel are encouraged to visit their
       physician for appropriate care.
3. Control of Pets:
   3.1. Pets may be taken to an outside area if owners exercise control. Owners must remove
   and dispose of feces left by their pets and ensure pets do not cause a nuisance. Pets
   maintained off base are controlled per Japanese laws (check with the Japanese Public Health
   Office [Hokenjo] in your area). Pets must be on a leash or confined within a fenced area at
   all times.
   3.2. Reference to Yokota ABPAM 32-6001 and contact 374 CES Housing Office, for
   instructions pertaining to pets and breed restrictions in base housing.
   3.3. No outside quarters will be built or maintained for pets without permission of the 374
   CES Housing Office and the Base Veterinarian. To obtain permission, use AF Form 332,
   Base Civil Engineer Work Request. The form is self-explanatory.
 4                                                   YOKOTAABI34-101 6 FEBRUARY 2013


     3.4. All costs resulting from damage, destruction, injury, care, billeting, euthanasia, or
     removal of pets will be incurred by the owner.
4. Care of Pets. Persons having custody of a pet must provide it with proper food, water,
shelter, and veterinary care.
5. Registration and Deregistration of Pets. Pets requiring registration (Attachment 1) will be
registered with Veterinary Services. Registration for dogs, cats, and ferrets include permanent
identification with an implanted microchip, (microchipping). Veterinary Services will implant
microchips for a small fee. A database of all pet microchipping will be maintained by the
Veterinary Services Office. The 374th SFS and Pet Boarding Facility will call the VTF to report
microchip numbers of stray pets.
6. Immunization of Pets:
     6.1. All dogs, cats and ferrets, 3 months of age or older, must be immunized against rabies.
     Those showing proof of immunization within the prescribed time intervals are exempt from
     receiving a new immunization at the time of arrival. A current, valid DD Form 2208, Rabies
     Vaccination Certificate, must be presented to Veterinary Services.
7. Removal of Pets from Installations:
     7.1. 374 AW/CC or the designee may direct temporary or permanent removal of pets from
     374 AW installations when:
        7.1.1. The owner fails to have required pets immunized, registered, or microchipped
        (Attachment 1).
        7.1.2. The pet is not under control.
        7.1.3. The pet has excessive or continual barking or other annoying habits.
        7.1.4. The pet destroys government or private property, causes injury to humans or other
        pets, or has been taken into custody twice according to paragraph 2.4.2.
     7.2. The pet is determined to be vicious or dangerous. Pets do not have to scratch, bite, or
     attack a person or other pets in order to be declared vicious or dangerous. A pet may develop
     an ill temper or dangerous nature which would make such removal necessary. In any
     reported incident in which a pet attempts to or does scratch, bite, or attack a person or
     another pet, the Base Veterinarian will carefully review all circumstances before deciding
     whether to advise 374 AW/CC or the designee to have the pet permanently removed from the
     installation. Veterinary Services will forward all cases involving repeated actual or
     attempted scratches, bites, or attacks by a pet to 374 AW/CC or the designee for review.
8. Pet Breeding. Pets will not be bred on the installation for the purpose of monetary gain.




                                               MARK R. AUGUST, Colonel, USAF
                                               Commander, 374th Airlift Wing
YOKOTAABI34-101 6 FEBRUARY 2013                                                                    5


                                          Attachment 1
          GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Record
AFI 48-105, Surveillance, Prevention, and Control of Diseases and Conditions of Public Health
or Military Significance
YOKOTAABPAM 32-6001, Family Housing Pamphlet Yokota Air Base, Japan
Adopted Form
AF Form 332, Base Civil Engineer Work Request
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 2208, Rabies Vaccination Certificate

Terms
Control—Acts of owners to regulate pet behavior to prevent public nuisance. In case of all pets,
the word "attended" means:
        Dogs are restrained outdoors at all times by a leash under the control of an adult or youth,
old enough and strong enough to control the pet. The leash must be strong enough to control the
pet or the dog must be in an approved fenced area, meeting base requirements.
        Owners of cats are responsible for their pets actions both indoors and outdoors. Although,
cats are not required to be leashed, they are not to be allowed to roam freely.
       Rabbits and ferrets, if taken outside, must be restrained by leash or in an approved fenced
area. The fenced area must be adequate to contain the animal to prevent escape from gaps in
fencing.
        All pet owners are responsible for their pet’s actions whether indoors or outdoors.
Nuisance—Any occasion where a pet causes annoyance, inconvenience, injury, or discomfort to
persons other than its owner.
Owner—A person legally possessing a pet or one who provides for its welfare, although not
having legal ownership. Ownership is interpreted through registration or other means.
Quarantine—Confinement of a pet at a location designated by the Base Veterinarian.
Microchipping—A procedure to insert a small microchip under the skin between the shoulder
blades. Mandatory for dogs, cats, and ferrets. The microchip is then read by scanner to obtain
identification.
Registration—The process of establishing medical records with Veterinary Services.
Mandatory for dogs, cats, ferrets, and rabbits. Any other animal may be registered if desir ed by
owner.
 6                                                YOKOTAABI34-101 6 FEBRUARY 2013


Privately Owned Animals (POA)—Dogs, cats, ferrets, birds, and domestically bred pets of the
rodent family such as hamsters, gerbils, guinea pigs, etc. This term may be expanded to include
fish and reptiles provided they are not capable of inflicting serious injuries or designated as
dangerous. Nonhuman primates (monkeys, apes, etc.), farm animals or any other feral or wild
animals will not be kept as pets.
Registrable animals—Normally, only dogs, cats, and ferrets are registrable. However, other
animals may be specified "registrable" by the Installation Commander upon recommendation of
the supporting Installation Veterinarian and 374th SFS.
