BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                              YOKOTA AIR BASE MANUAL 65-101
YOKOTA AIR BASE
                                                                                  16 MAY 2012

                                                                       Financial Management

                                                MASTER LABOR CONTRACT (MLC) TIME
                                                  AND ATTENDANCE REPORTING AND
                                                             PAYROLL-MAKING (PA)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 374 CPTS/FMAJ           (Ms. Ineko                             Certified by: 374 CPTS/CC
Iwamoto)                                                                      (Lt Col Ned June)
                                                                                       Pages: 5
Supersedes:   374 AWMAN 65-1,
              18 April 2006


This manual states the responsibilities and rules for time and attendance reporting and payroll-
making for employees hired under the Master Labor Contract (MLC). It applies to all assigned,
attached and tenant units located at Yokota Air Base using MLC employees. This publication
requires the collection and or maintenance of information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974
authorized by Title 31 U.S.C., Section 3325 and 3528. Executive Order 9397, Numbering System
For Federal Accounts relating to Individual Persons, November 22, 1943. The applicable
Privacy Act SORN(s) is available at http://dpclo.defense.gov/privacy/SORNs/SORNs.html.
Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this publication are
maintained in accordance (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records,
and disposed of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management System (AFRIMS)
Records             Disposition          Schedule           (RDS)            located          at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through
their appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Changed from commander or staff agency chief to group commander or Director of
staff (paragraph 3). Added following: per the current Labor Cost Sharing (LCS), majority of the
 2                                                    YOKOTAABMAN65-101 16 MAY 2012


cost is born by GOJ, AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and
Compensatory Time, block “FUND CERTIFICATION” may be left blank (paragraph 3).
1. Disposition of Documentation.
     1.1. Destroy time sheets, copies of payrolls, daily employee referral and utilization forms
     and backup files after 5 years.
     1.2. Destroy other files per AFRIMS, RDS.
2. Time and Attendance Reporting Responsibilities.
     2.1. The contracting officer’s representative (COR) for fiscal matters will provide aid and
     guidance to timekeepers and check time sheets during staff visits and by other means,
     advising using units of the results.
     2.2. Each using unit will:
        2.2.1. Appoint timekeepers as needed. Timekeepers are responsible for the accuracy and
        correctness of the timesheets based on supporting documents like leave slips, medical
        certificates, etc., in accordance with Section 1 of the MLC Timekeeper’s Handbook
        (available at 374 CPTS/FMAJ). Send the certified time sheet, with overtime, special
        work and leave forms, to the individual assigned to create payroll worksheet by the
        scheduled day of the month.
        2.2.2. Appoint a primary and an alternate official to certify timesheets. Timesheet
        certifiers are ideally at the lowest level of supervision that approves MLC leave requests.
        Send the original DD Form 577, Appointment/Termination Record - Authorized
        Signature, signed by the appointing authority to the payroll-making point (Authority to
        create payroll worksheet).
     2.3. The time sheet certifier will:
        2.3.1. Officially certifies that service was rendered for the hours credited in accordance
        with the terms of the MLC. Ensure that timesheet certifiers do not certify their own
        timesheets.
        2.3.2. Ensure the time sheets have accurate entries and are submitted on time.
3. Overtime and Holiday work. Pay for overtime and holiday work will not be paid without
proper authorization. Overtime, holiday premium should be properly requested by supervisors
by filling out AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory
Time. The AF Form 428 should be approved and signed by the group commander or Director of
staff before the overtime or holiday work is rendered. Under the current Labor Cost Sharing
(LCS), majority of the cost is born by GOJ, therefore, the Block “FUND CERTIFICATION”
may be left blank. Timekeepers must file the original AF Form 428 and submit a copy of the AF
Form 428 with the payroll to 374 CPTS/FMAJ.
4. Payroll-Making Responsibilities.
     4.1. The COR for fiscal matters will:
        4.1.1. Complete and sign Part III of each Defense Facilities Administration Agency
        (DFAA) Form, MLC Payroll Certification (payroll certification form).
YOKOTAABMAN65-101 16 MAY 2012                                                                      3


       4.1.2. Give technical aid to personnel in charge of making the payroll and act as the link
       between the LMO-IAA and using units on all payroll-making matters.
       4.1.3. Negotiate with LMO-IAA about the annual schedule of providing and collecting
       payroll forms and disseminate to using units.
       4.1.4. Verify and research FS (Fiscal Station), UU (Using Unit) and CE (Cost Entity)
       code on USFJ Form 11EJ, Personnel Action Request/Official Notification of IHA
       Personnel Action (PA), and inform LMO-IAA of changes and new assignments of FS,
       UU and CE code.
       4.1.5. Maintain and forward individual DD Form 577 countersigned by authority of
       using unit to the LMO-IAA.
   4.2. Using units will:
       4.2.1. Appoint a central payroll-making point or points to collect all time sheets and
       make a payroll based on them.
       4.2.2. Appoint a primary and an alternate official to sign Part I of the payroll certification
       form. For each individual appointed, complete a DD Form 577 countersigned by the
       commander or staff agency chief. Send one original copy to the 374 CPTS/FMAJ and
       keep one copy for file. E mail should be digitally signed.
4.3. Payroll-making point(s) will:
       4.3.1. Keep current file of DD Form 577 for all authorized time sheet certifiers.
       4.3.2. Ensure all time sheets are certified by proper authority.
       4.3.3. Before starting the payroll worksheet, check for accuracy of all data shown in the
       Overtime, Special Work, Remarks and other columns of the time sheet which are filled
       out at the close of each month.
       4.3.4. Complete DFAA Form, Payroll for Japanese Employee Utilized by USFJ (payroll
       form), in accordance with Section 2 of the MLC Timekeeper’s Handbook and submit on
       time.
   4.4. Payroll certifier will:
       4.4.1. Officially certify that service was rendered for the hours credited in accordance
       with the terms of the MLC.
       4.4.2. Ensure the payroll form has accurate entries and are submitted on time to 374
       CPTS/FMAJ.
5. Obtaining Payroll and Certification Forms. On the scheduled day of the month, the LMO-
IAA sends the payroll for the month to the COR for fiscal matters. The COR distributes these
forms to each responsible organization. The following blocks of the payroll form are filled out
by the LMO-IAA:
   5.1. Key number.
   5.2. Period.
   5.3. Branch of service (Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps).
 4                                                     YOKOTAABMAN65-101 16 MAY 2012


     5.4. LMO number.
     5.5. Type of payroll (regular or supplemental).
     5.6. Payroll number.
     5.7. Fiscal station number.
     5.8. Organization.
     5.9. Page number.
     5.10. Employee number and full name (in English and Japanese).
     5.11. Change date.
     5.12. Basic wage table (BWT) number, grade and step.
     5.13. Scheduled work hours per week.
     5.14. Hours of annual leave.
6. Submitting Payroll and Certification Forms.
     6.1. Payroll-making point(s) complete the payroll and Payroll certifier certifies forms in
     accordance with Section 2 of the MLC Timekeeper’s Handbook.
     6.2. Payroll-making point(s) takes the original and three copies of the payroll form (with the
     original and one copy of the certificate in front of it) to 374 CPTS/FMAJ by the scheduled
     day. Be sure to keep one copy of each payroll and certification form on file.
     6.3. A using unit may be asked by the COR for fiscal matters to send its payroll directly to
     the LMO-IAA in an emergency or if the unit is at a remote site.




                                              WILLIAM M. KNIGHT, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 374th Airlift Wing
YOKOTAABMAN65-101 16 MAY 2012                                                                 5


                                        Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 428, Request for Overtime, Holiday Premium Pay, and Compensatory Time
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
DD Form 577, Appointment/Termination Record - Authorized Signature
DFAA Form, Payroll for Japanese Employee Utilized by USFJ
USFJ Form 11EJ, Personnel Action Request/Official Notification of IHA Personnel Action (PA)

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB—Air Base
AFRIMS—Air Force Records Information Management System
IAW—In Accordance With
MLC—Master Labor Contract
COR—Officer’s Representative
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule

Terms
Contracting Officer—The person named to execute the MLC on behalf of the United States
Government. The present contracting officer is assigned to the 374th Contracting Squadron (374
CONS).
COR for Fiscal Matters—A person who is appointed by and represents the contracting officer
on fiscal matters within the limits of the authority set forth in the letter of appointment. The
COR for fiscal matters is located at 374 CPTS/FMAJ.
LMO—IAA—Offers labor management and administrative services for the USFJ employees.
Payroll Form. An unnumbered DFAA Form titled Payroll for Japanese Employee Utilized
by USFJ. It comes in a set of four sheets from LMO—IAA and is used for all MLC
employees except those hired on a daily basis. Using unit will fill out this form.
Payroll Certification Form.—An unnumbered DFAA Form titled MLC Payroll Certification.
Using unit certifier will sign on this form.
Timekeeper—A person who enters time worked by MLC employees and their absences on the
time sheet.
Using Unit—An organization required in making and submitting payroll form.
