BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                          YOKOTA AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 31-103
374TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                                     3 JULY 2012

                                                                                          Security

                                                        YOKOTA CONDUCT ADJUDICATION
                                                                  PROGRAM (YCAP) (PA)

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available for downloading or ordering on the e-
               Publishing website at www.e-Publishing.af.mil

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 374 MSG/CDY                                                       Certified by: 374 MSG/CC
                                                                            (Col Todd M. Freece)
Supersedes:    374 AWI 31-202, 4 August                                                   Pages: 9
               2006, and DoD1342.6-
               M_374 AWSUP, 18 June
               2002


This instruction implements Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense. This
instruction applies to all military dependents and civilians subject to the Status of Forces
Agreement (SOFA), regardless of service affiliation, who are stationed at, reside on, or work at
Yokota Air Base (AB), to include Tama Recreation Facility. Department of Defense (DoD)
civilian employees may be subject to disciplinary or adverse actions under appropriate guidance.
This instruction is to assist the United States Air Force in maintaining safe and secure living and
working conditions and to assist in maintaining appropriate interaction with the local community
and establishes the Yokota Conduct Adjudication Program (YCAP). The YCAP is one process
to address misconduct by personnel with status under Articles I (b) and XIV of the SOFA, family
members of all SOFA personnel, and other non-military members of the DoD family. The
YCAP applies without regard to component or Departmental affiliation. Corrective actions
under the YCAP are separate from disciplinary and adverse actions for employees and may occur
without regard to other administrative or criminal actions contemplated or taken. This
instruction requires colleting and maintaining information protected by the Privacy Act of 1974,
authorized by 10 U.S.C. 8013 and E.O. 9397. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance (IAW) Air Force Manual
(AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of IAW the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
 2                                                            YOKOTAABI31-103 3 JULY 2012


847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through
their appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has been substantially revised and must be completely reviewed. Major changes
include: Several revisions to the YCAP Procedures and YCAP Formal Board have been made;
added educational neglect (paragraph 3.1.2.1.); and updated office symbols.
1. General.
     1.1. The SOFA governs jurisdiction of all criminal offenses committed in Japan by family
     members of armed forces personnel, DoD employees, and contractors provided logistic
     support privileges. Additionally, acts of misconduct by family members and DoD civilians
     are subject to administrative sanctions under the provisions of this instruction, and applicable
     disciplinary or adverse action guidelines, regardless of any action taken by Japanese
     authorities. Failure of Japanese authorities to pursue jurisdiction against dependents of
     service members, DoD civilian employees, and contractors provided logistic support
     privileges does not preclude action under this instruction. Those individuals working on base
     but not receiving logistic support privileges may have their base pass privileges restricted
     and/or revoked or be recommended for debarment when the misconduct is substantiated by
     the preponderance of evidence.
     1.2. The YCAP is the direct responsibility of the 374 MSG Commander (374 MSG/CC) who
     may delegate management of the program to the 374 MSG Deputy Commander (374
     MSG/CD), or the 374 MSG Deputy Director of Installation Support (374 MSG/DD). The
     YCAP objectives are to:
        1.2.1. Maintain good order and discipline in the Yokota AB community.
        1.2.2. Participate with community organizations to identify proactive means to reduce
        instances of civilian and family member misconduct that adversely impact the
        community.
        1.2.3. Protect the well being of all personnel residing on Yokota AB.
        1.2.4. Screen all acts of civilian misconduct.
        1.2.5. Prevent further misconduct through aggressive preventive program action.
        1.2.6. Whenever possible, effectively use base resources to provide individuals and
        families with the best possible referral and assistance services.
     1.3. Misconduct refers to the following:
        1.3.1. Conduct committed by dependents, off duty DoD employees, and contractors
        provided logistic support that violates United States or Japanese laws.
        1.3.2. Violations of DoD, Air Force, Pacific Air Forces (PACAF), or Fifth Air Force (5
        AF), or 374th Airlift Wing (374 AW) instructions and policies relating to dependent or
        civilian conduct.
        1.3.3. Any conduct that negatively impacts good order and discipline in the Yokota AB
        community to include misconduct committed on or off base.
YOKOTAABI31-103 3 JULY 2012                                                                    3


   1.4. As a military community overseas, it is essential to maintain good order and discipline,
   and protect the welfare of the Yokota Community. By focusing on a strong partnership with
   the sponsor, chain of command, and base activities, the YCAP can best use the resources
   available to tailor administrative or rehabilitation actions to the individual, and offer the
   necessary counseling services to prevent future misconduct.
2. YCAP Management and Responsibilities.
   2.1. 374 MSG/CC. The 374 MSG CC serves as the Civilian Misconduct Authority (CMA)
   and is responsible for the management and oversight of the program to include making all
   findings of fact, directing all adverse administrative sanctions, and chairing formal boards.
   2.2. 374 AW Staff Judge Advocate (374 AW/JA). The 374 AW/JA will appoint a
   representative to serve as legal advisor to the YCAP.
   2.3. The YCAP Coordinator. The YCAP Coordinator, reporting to the 374 MSG/CC, is
   responsible for the daily administration of the YCAP. The YCAP Coordinator serves as the
   primary advisor, point of contact, and administrative manager for the program.
   2.4. Unit Commanders and First Sergeants. Ensure sponsors comply with the guidelines
   outlined in this instruction, partner with the YCAP and base service agencies to develop the
   appropriate response for the misconduct, and monitor completion of the required actions.
3. YCAP Procedures.
   3.1. The YCAP Coordinator will screen all acts of dependent and civilian misconduct and
   obtain appropriate incident reports from 374th Security Forces Squadron Reports and
   Analysis Section (374 SFS/S5R) and/or Air Force Office of Special Investigations (AFOSI).
      3.1.1. The YCAP Coordinator will establish and maintain a case file on alleged offenders
      involved in misconduct. The YCAP Coordinator maintains all case files for a minimum
      of 5 years. In cases where the period of restriction or debarment extends beyond 5 years,
      the YCAP Coordinator will maintain case files until the end of the period of restriction or
      debarment, whichever is later.
      3.1.2. The YCAP Coordinator will coordinate with the alleged offender and/or sponsor’s
      unit of assignment (commander, first sergeant, and/or supervisor). The alleged offender
      and/or sponsor will have an opportunity to submit matters to the 374 MSG/CC for
      consideration.
          3.1.2.1. The YCAP Coordinator will review the case file with the 374 AW/JA YCAP
          legal advisor. The YCAP Coordinator will coordinate with Department of Defense
          Dependents Schools (DoDDS) (when incident involves school-age dependent), 374th
          Medical Operations Squadron Mental Health (374 MDOS/SGOW) and/or 374 MDOS
          Family Advocacy (374 MDOS/SGOW), 374th Force Support Squadron Airman and
          Family Readiness Center (374 FSS/FSFR), 374 FSS Civilian Personnel Section (374
          FSS/FSMC), 374 FSS Force Support Squadron Human Resources Office (HRO) (374
          FSS/FSMH), civilian supervisors, union representatives, contract officer’s
          representatives, and contracting officers, as appropriate. Note: Educational Neglect
          constitutes not following guidelines regarding school aged children attending school.
          The YCAP Coordinator may make inquiries regarding the alleged offender as deemed
          necessary to adjudicate the case and to provide the 374 MSG/CC with sufficient
4                                                          YOKOTAABI31-103 3 JULY 2012


           information so that an informed decision regarding the misconduct issue can be made.
           The inquiry may include home visits (with unit representative), school visits, and
           coordination with other helping agencies on base. The YCAP Coordinator will
           inform the 374 MSG/CC of the progress on each misconduct case initiated.
           3.1.2.2. The YCAP Coordinator and/or 374 MSG/DD will meet with the alleged
           offender, sponsor, and the sponsor’s unit representative to discuss the alleged
           misconduct when the case is handled without convening an YCAP Formal Board.
           3.1.2.3. The alleged offender and/or the sponsor will be provided the opportunity of
           resolving the issue by submitting a plan outlining actions taken to correct the
           situation, identify community resources used, request enrollment of the alleged
           offender in the Community Supervision Program (CSP), and other actions taken to
           ensure no further acts of misconduct occur while the alleged offender remains at
           Yokota AB. This plan will be submitted through the alleged offenders and/or
           sponsor’s chain of command for their endorsement.
           3.1.2.4. The 374 MSG/CC has the option of accepting, modifying, or rejecting the
           alleged offender’s and/or sponsor’s proposed plan. The 374 MSG/CC may elect to
           forward the misconduct issue for resolution through the YCAP Formal Board process
           due to the seriousness of the alleged misconduct.
    3.2. Sanction options available to the YCAP include, but are not limited to, the following
    (with an objective to partner with the alleged offender and/or sponsor to determine the most
    effective program plan):
       3.2.1. Minor Administrative Actions:
           3.2.1.1. No Action.
           3.2.1.2. Counseling by the 374 MSG/CC or YCAP Coordinator (this may not be
           necessary in cases where the actions already taken by the alleged offender and/or
           sponsor are deemed sufficient).
           3.2.1.3. Remanding the alleged offender’s logistic support privileges back to the
           sponsor to be used under the supervision of the sponsor in cases involving minors.
           3.2.1.4. Letter of warning.
           3.2.1.5. Enrollment in the CSP.
           3.2.1.6. Curfew restriction (for minors).
           3.2.1.7. Restriction to quarters unless under adult or sponsor supervision (for
           minors).
       3.2.2. Adverse Administrative Sanctions:
           3.2.2.1. Suspension of Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES), commissary
           and/or Morale, Welfare, and Recreation (MWR) privileges (logistical support
           privileges), requiring the alleged offender to receive an updated identification card.
           3.2.2.2. Restriction to base.
           3.2.2.3. Recommendation to 374 AW/CC for debarment.
YOKOTAABI31-103 3 JULY 2012                                                                    5


      3.2.3. Failure to make restitution for damages may be viewed as an aggravating factor by
      the 374 MSG/CC when the misconduct case is adjudicated, and may be considered in
      administering more severe sanctions or recommendation to 374 AW/CC for debarment.
      3.2.4. Other actions deemed appropriate by the 374 MSG/CC to include referral for
      evaluations/counseling. The YCAP Coordinator is responsible for ensuring that a
      Confidential Release of Information form is signed by the minor and the sponsor/parent
      for Adolescent Substance Abuse Counseling Services (ASACS) referrals and Family
      Advocacy/Mental Health referrals.
   3.3. CSP:
      3.3.1. The YCAP Coordinator is responsible for designating appropriate CSP tasks and
      work sites. The CSP work sites are to be charitable, non-profit organizations/agencies.
      Profit-making events/activities or paid tasks already being performed by the military or
      civilians are not appropriate CSP tasks and/or work sites. Unit commanders and first
      sergeants may suggest appropriate CSP tasks and work sites.
      3.3.2. The YCAP Coordinator, through the first sergeant or unit representative, will
      monitor and ensure individual compliance with CSP enrollment. Parental/sponsor
      supervision is mandated by the 374 MSG/CC as a condition of enrollment in the CSP for
      minors. The number of hours of community service is based on the seriousness of the
      misconduct and considerations of any previous pattern of misconduct (repeat offenders).
   3.4. Access to Incident Reports.
      3.4.1. The YCAP Coordinator and Chairperson are not authorized to release police
      reports or reports of investigation to the alleged offender or the sponsor. Information
      may be summarized by the YCAP Coordinator or Chairperson when meeting with the
      alleged offender and/or sponsor.
      3.4.2. Individuals requesting copies of incident reports can obtain a redacted copy
      through the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) process.
4. YCAP Formal Board Process.
   4.1. The YCAP Formal Board will be held for any incident report received by 374 SFS
   Reports and Analysis Section (374 SFS/S5R) and/or AFOSI that involves, but not limited to
   use, sale, or possession of controlled substances; larceny of government or personal property;
   willful destruction of government or personal property; bomb threats; sexual offenses (not to
   include rape); shoplifting (over $100); aggravated assault or recurring cases of simple
   assault; repeat offenders to determine the appropriate administrative action for cases of
   civilian and dependent misconduct. In general, a Formal Board is for more significant cases,
   and/or where the facts regarding the misconduct allegations are in question. In addition the
   374 MSG/CC has the authority to conduct a formal board on any incident he deems sufficient
   to bring before the panel.
   4.2. The YCAP legal advisor will be present during all Formal Boards. The legal advisor
   will ensure that the YCAP receives appropriate legal advice and ensure that the rights of the
   individuals appearing before the formal review are protected.
   4.3. At a minimum, attendance at a YCAP Formal Board will be mandatory for the
   following individuals:
6                                                          YOKOTAABI31-103 3 JULY 2012


       4.3.1. Alleged offender.
       4.3.2. Sponsor.
       4.3.3. Commander, first sergeant, or designated unit representative or senior civilian
       representative, as appropriate.
       4.3.4. Legal advisor; Chairperson; YCAP Coordinator; Command Chief; Family
       Advocacy representative; 374 SFS representative; and AFOSI representative.
       4.3.5. The Chairperson may have other individuals present to assist in determining the
       preponderance of evidence and/or in resolving the misconduct issue (i.e., DoDDS). The
       Chairperson may request additional information, documents, or witnesses, after the
       alleged offender’s presentation.
    4.4. Additional matters not already submitted to the Board will be considered with the
    entirety of the evidence if deemed relevant. Relevant matters may include written documents
    as well as witnesses and oral statements. The alleged offender may request assistance from
    the YCAP Coordinator and the Chairperson to have witnesses available for the Formal
    Board.
    4.5. The YCAP Formal Board will proceed as follows:
       4.5.1. The Chairperson is normally the 374 MSG/CC but he/she may ask the 374 MSG
       Deputy Commander (374 MSG/CD) or the Deputy Director of Installation Support (374
       MSG/DD) to act as Chairperson during his /her absence or delegation of authority.
       4.5.2. The YCAP Coordinator will present the allegations of misconduct as outlined in
       appropriate reports.
       4.5.3. The alleged offender and/or sponsor will have an opportunity to make a
       presentation (to include written documents, witnesses, and oral statements) for the
       Board’s consideration.
       4.5.4. The Board may ask questions to help clarify information pertaining to the alleged
       misconduct.
       4.5.5. The Board will then determine if the preponderance of the evidence shows that the
       alleged offender committed the misconduct. A preponderance of evidence simply means
       the greater weight of credible evidence.
       4.5.6. The Board will then make appropriate findings, which can include finding the
       alleged offender did not commit the alleged misconduct or finding that the alleged
       offender committed the alleged misconduct based on a preponderance of the evidence. If
       the Board finds that the alleged offender did not commit any misconduct, no further
       action is necessary. If the Board finds the alleged offender committed any misconduct,
       then the YCAP Coordinator will notify the offender of the action taken. If debarment is
       recommended, the YCAP Coordinator will notify the offender verbally or in writing that
       debarment is recommended subject to the 374 AW/CC approval.
       4.5.7. The alleged offender and/or sponsor will be provided a preliminary program plan,
       setting out the appropriate administrative and/or rehabilitative actions, within 3 days of
       the receipt of Formal Board action.
YOKOTAABI31-103 3 JULY 2012                                                                   7


   4.6. If the need for good order and discipline or the safety of the Yokota AB Community
   dictates that the 374 MSG/CC take appropriate action immediately without having a Formal
   Board, the alleged offender will be given the opportunity to submit matters to the 374
   MSG/CC as soon as it is reasonably feasible thereafter, but it does not delay the actions or
   decisions of the 374 MSG/CC.
5. YCAP Appeal Procedures.
   5.1. The alleged offender and/or sponsor may appeal the findings of the Board. The appeal
   must be submitted in writing and must clearly state the reason for the appeal. The appeal
   must be endorsed by the alleged offender and/or sponsor’s chain of command and forwarded
   to the 374 MSG/CC.
   5.2. Appeals must be submitted in writing within 5 duty days of receipt of the disciplinary
   action memorandum, unless the 374 MSG/CC approves a delay for good cause.
   5.3. Requests for delay in submitting an appeal must also be in writing, endorsed by the
   alleged offender and/or sponsor’s chain of command, and must explain the reasons for delay
   in detail. Specifically, the alleged offender and/or sponsor must explain what factors beyond
   his or her control prevented him or her from appealing within the required time.
   5.4. The 374 MSG/CC will serve as an appellate authority for all actions imposed by the
   YCAP Program except in debarment cases.
6. Debarment Process.
   6.1. The 374 AW/CC is the sole authority for debarment from Yokota AB, Japan.
   Debarment is considered when it is believed that the alleged offender’s continued presence or
   access to Yokota AB would be detrimental to good order and discipline and/or create a
   significant negative impact on the welfare of the community. This could be the result of
   actions such as a pattern of misconduct without showing signs of rehabilitation, or a single
   significant act of misconduct that indicates the safety or welfare of personnel are at risk.
   6.2. If the Board decides to recommend a debarment, the 374 SFS/S5R will prepare a
   recommendation for debarment and forward that request to the 374 AW/CC for approval.
   This recommendation will summarize the misconduct issues forming the basis of the
   debarment and it’ll include the alleged offender’s and/or sponsor’s response, if any, to the
   debarment recommendation. The 374 SFS/S5R will prepare an AF Form 1768, Staff
   Summary Sheet, along with the proposed debarment letter and forward them to the 374
   AW/CC through 374 AW/JA. The package will include the Board’s recommendations and
   the sponsor’s response to the proposed debarment (if provided). The 374 AW/JA will
   conduct a legal review to determine the appropriateness of the proposed debarment action
   and provide a comments if necessary to the 374 AW/CC.
   6.3. If approved, the 374 AW/CC will sign the debarment notification and forward the
   correspondence to the 374 SFS/S5R, who in turn will serve the debarment notification on the
   alleged offender and/or sponsor for action effective immediately. The 374 SFS will provide
   the YCAP Coordinator with a copy of the debarment notification.
   6.4. If disapproved, the 374 AW/CC will provide the 374 MSG/CC with the appropriate
   guidance.
 8                                                           YOKOTAABI31-103 3 JULY 2012


     6.5. The 374 AW/CC has sole authority to determine whether a debarment action is
     appropriate. Individuals do not have a right to a hearing before the 374 AW/CC in response
     to a notification of a debarment action. Because a debarment indicates there is a significant
     risk to the Yokota Community, unless stated in the debarment notification, there is no
     automatic appeal of a debarment order, as the alleged offender’s and/or sponsor’s rebuttal to
     the debarment recommendation is included in the package sent to the 374 AW/CC for
     decision.
        6.5.1. A person debarred from Yokota AB who is entitled to medical care at a military
        treatment facility is allowed to re-enter Yokota AB for the sole purpose of receiving
        medical treatment. The individual must be escorted from the East Gate to the appropriate
        medical building (hospital; dental clinic) by the offender’s sponsor or squadron/activity
        representative and must remain accompanied by sponsor or escort at all times.
7. Rights to Counsel.
     7.1. The process of adjudicating civilian and dependent misconduct issues is an
     administrative process, not a legal proceeding. The YCAP Coordinator will explain the
     YCAP process to the alleged offender and/or sponsor and will assist them by providing
     guidance and suggestions.
     7.2. Because the YCAP is an administrative process and not a legal proceeding, alleged
     offenders are not entitled to legal counsel. As such, the 374 AW/JA and the Area Defense
     Counsel are not authorized to represent the alleged offender. However, this does not limit an
     individual’s authority to hire civilian counsel to assist in preparing for the review or for an
     appeal if they feel it is necessary.
     7.3. While the 374 AW/JA cannot represent an alleged offender, the legal advisor to the
     YCAP, as a neutral member, can answer legal questions the alleged offender has on a non-
     privileged basis, and may be available during all formal reviews. The legal advisor is tasked
     to ensure the rights of the alleged offender are not violated during the YCAP process.
8. Status of Discipline Meeting. The YCAP Coordinator will establish a quarterly report to
present the number and types of civilian and family misconduct incidents for inclusion in the
Community Action Information Board (CAIB) meeting. The CAIB meeting is a quarterly
meeting.




                                              WILLIAM M. KNIGHT, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander, 374th Airlift Wing
YOKOTAABI31-103 3 JULY 2012                                                   9


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
Air Force Policy Directive (AFPD) 31-1, Integrated Defense, 28 October 2011
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Form
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication
AF Form 1768, Staff Summary Sheet

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB—Air Base
ASACS—Adolescent Substance Abuse Counseling Services
CAIB—Community Action Information Board
CMA—Civilian Misconduct Authority
CSP—Community Supervision Program
DoD—Department of Defense
FOIA—Freedom of Information Act
HRO—Human Resources Office
MWR—Morale, Welfare, and Recreation
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SOFA—Status of Forces Agreement
YCAP—Yokota Conduct Adjudication Program
