                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                        PACIFIC AIR FORCES




                                                                           YOKOTAABGM13-1

                                                                             4 September 2013

MEMORANDUM FOR 374TH AIRLIFT WING PERSONNEL

FROM: 374 AW/CC
      Unit 5078
      APO AP 96326-5078

SUBJECT: Yokota AB Guidance Memorandum for the 374th Airlift Wing Self Assessment
         Program

Releasability: There are no restrictions on release of this publication.

       By Order of the Commander, 374th Airlift Wing, this is a Yokota Air Base Guidance
Memorandum immediately implementing policy for the 374 AW Self Assessment Program.
Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its direction is inconsistent with
other Air Force Publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management.

1. In preparation for the transition to the new Air Force Inspection System this memorandum
serves as interim guidance until the new AFI 90-201 is released and PACAF and 374 AW
supplements are developed.

2. The Chief, Wing Inspections and Exercises (XPI) is hereby designated the Wing Self-
Assessment Program Manager (WSAPM) and the NCOIC, Wing Inspections is hereby
designated Wing MICT Lead Manager.

3. 374 AW Unit Commanders will support the following requirements:
   a. Each unit will appoint in writing and submit to the WSAPM a primary and alternate unit
   Self-Assessment Program Manager.
   b. At a minimum, all 374 AW unit commanders will assess their units semi-annually during
   the months of July and January. These assessments will be documented on a Statement of
   Assurance and submitted to the WSAPM IAW the Self Assessment Program Business Rules.
   c. Each unit will use the Management Internal Control Toolset (MICT) to record self-
   assessments using current PACAF, parent MAJCOM, HAF or locally developed Self-
   Assessment Checklists (SAC).
   d. Self-assessments will be conducted IAW 374 AW Self Assessment Program Business
   Rules.
4. Wing Self Assessment Program Manager will:
   a. Brief the 374 AW/CC on the status of the Wing Self Assessment Program (WSAP) at
   least semi-annually.
   b. Immediately notify the 374 AW/CC of all Tier 1 CRITICAL or SIGNIFICANT
   deficiencies.
   c. Review and update the Wing Self-Assessment Program Policy Memorandum annually.
   d. Review and update the Wing Self-Assessment Program Business Rules Memorandum
   annually.
   e. Review all wing level Self Assessment Checklists (SAC) annually to ensure they are
   current and updated.
   f. Conduct a Self Assessment Program Manager working group at least semi-annually,
   focusing on quality and trend analysis and AFSO 21 process improvement.
   g. Act as the Self Assessment Program Manager for all Wing Staff Agencies.

5. Wing MICT Lead Manager will:
   a. Develop MICT reports IAW 374 AW/CC guidance.
   b. Liaise with PACAF/IG on all MICT issues to include, but not limited to, software
   improvement, self assessment checklist quality and self assessment program integration.
   c. Approve and assist in the development of all 374 AW Local Self Assessment Checklists.
   d. Approve and assist in the development of all MICT Workcenters.
   e. Provide initial training to unit commanders, Self Assessment Program Managers and
   Wing Functional Program Managers
   f. Maintain the 374 AW Self Assessment Program website.
   g. Act as the 374 AW MICT Help Desk.

6. Wing Functional Program Managers will:
   a. Maintain and review annually a list of unit representatives for their Wing Functional
   Program (i.e., Security Managers, Unit Deployment Managers, etc.).
   b. Incorporate MICT into required inspections and Staff Assisted Visits (SAVs).
   c. Provide unit Self Assessment Program Managers and unit wing functional program
   representatives with applicable MICT SACs to include identifying all NA checklist items.
   d. Work with the Wing MICT Lead Manager to develop Local Checklists as required.

7. Group Self Assessment Program Managers will:
   a. Be the Group Commander’s direct representative to the Wing’s Self Assessment
   Program.
   b. Develop Group Self Assessment Program Business Rules as necessary to meet Group
   Commander specific requirements and submit them to the WSAPM for review and approval
   by the AW/CC.
   c. Review Unit Program Logs and MICT checklists annually for Group Staff and all sub-
   units.
   d. Review and route all Statements of Assurance to the WSAPM.
   e. Review and route all Tier 1, CRITICAL or SIGNIFICANT notifications to the WSAPM.
   f. Establish a formal process for tracking and closing Tier 2, CRITICAL or SIGNIFICANT
   deficiencies.
   g. Attend Self Assessment Program Manager working groups.
   h. Incorporate MICT into all required SAVs and/or supplemental evaluations.

8. Unit Self-Assessment Program Managers will:
   a. Execute the unit Self Assessment Program IAW WSAP and unit commander guidance.
   b. Act as the unit’s MICT Lead Manger.
   c. Maintain and review annually a Unit Programs List.
   d. Maintain and review annually all unit SACs.
   e. Conduct MICT administrative duties within the unit to include, creating/deleting
   accounts, providing initial MICT training, assigning permissions, tracking/cloning necessary
   checklists.
   f. Work with the Wing MICT Lead Manager to create Workcenters and develop Local
   Checklists as required.

9. Unit Commander Reporting:
   a. Statements of Assurance (SoA)
       i. Will be completed semi-annually IAW the 374 AW Self Assessment Program
      memorandum. SoA templates can be found on the 374 AW/XPI Self Assessment
      Program website.
      ii. Will confirm all SAC are current, acknowledge all deficiencies and confirm
      corrective action plans are in place. Note: Meeting the SoA requirement does not mean
      that every SAC has to be run semi-annually.
   b. Mandatory Discrepancy Notification
       i. Unit commanders will notify the WSAPM, within 7 days, of any deficiencies on
      “Tier 1” items. Notifications will be via Memorandum For Record and templates can be
      found on the 374 AW/XPI SAP website.
      ii. Unit commanders will notify the WSAPM, within 14 days, of any “CRITICAL” or
      “SIGNIFICANT” deficiencies. Notifications will be via Memorandum For Record and
      templates can be found on the 374 AW/XPI SAP website.

10. Self Assessment Checklist Cycle:
    a. Unit Self Assessment Checklists will be completed as required by AFI, regulation and/or
    MICT guidance (listed as “Frequency,”) whichever occurs most frequently.
    b. Unit commanders or higher can direct a SAC to be completed at any time.
    c. Wing Functional Program Managers can direct unit representatives to complete a SAC in
    conjunction with a SAV.

11. As an AFSO 21 cost and resource savings measure, unit SAP continuity information will be
maintained virtually on MICT and the 374 AW Self Assessment Program website IAW para. 9
of this memorandum. All other Continuity Books will be considered “For Reference Only.”
12. 374 AW Self Assessment Program website:
    a. Appointment Letters will be maintained by the unit SAPM in the “Self Assessment
    Program Managers” list on the 374 AW Self Assessment Program website.
    b. A Unit Programs List will be maintained by the unit SAPM in the “Self Assessment
    Program Log” on the 374 AW Self Assessment Program website
    c. Unit SAPMs can use the “Suggestion Box” located under Useful Links to request a SAV,
    suggest a SAP/MICT improvement or ask a question. Unit SAPMs can also contact the
    MICT Lead Manager directly at DSN 225-9554.

13. MICT Business Rules:
    a. Hierarchy
         i. The Self Assessment Program Manager (SAPM) should be a unit member assigned to
        a unit QA, Stan/Eval or equivalent oversight role.
        ii. Unit Workcenter Owners
            1. Should be no lower than a “three letter” office symbol or flight equivalent.
            2. Should be the lowest level of “close out” authority for Self Assessment Checklists
            within the unit.
    b. Permissions
         i. Unit commanders will have, at a minimum, Unit SIP Reviewer permissions.
        ii. Wing Functional Program Managers will have Wing SIP Reviewer permissions
       iii. SAPMs will have Unit SIP Owner permissions
       iv. Workcenter Owners should have Unit SIP Manager (not Workcenter Manager)
       permissions.
        v. Checklist Assessors Roles
            1. Primary POC: does not need to be assigned MICT permissions; they only need a
            profile created and an assigned checklist.
            2. Supervisor: does not need to be assigned MICT permissions; should be flight
            leadership or commander designated functional program managers (i.e. UDM,
            Security Manager, etc.)
    c. Self Assessment Checklist Management
         i. All units will, at a minimum, track and assess all applicable HAF, PACAF and Parent
        MAJCOM checklists. Units will only use Parent MAJCOM SACs if PACAF SACs are
        unavailable and units are required to operate by parent MAJCOM guidance.
        ii. Tracking Checklists
            1. A SAC should only be “Tracked” once within a unit. This checklist will act as
            the primary record of unit compliance.
            2. When unit SAPMs or Workcenter Owners determine the need run SACs at
            subordinate levels they will “Clone” the SAC and will name it IAW para. 11.c.iii.2 of
            this memorandum.
       iii. Cloning Checklists
            1. Should only be used as a tool to support a “Tracked” SAC.
            2. Will preface the MAJCOM title with the subsection to which the "Cloned” SAC
            is assigned. For example if the 374 CS SCOTA section needed to run the AFI 91-203
           Fall Protection in support of the 374 CS/SE program then the SAC would be titled,
           "SCOTA - AFI 91-203 Fall Protection."
      iv. Local Checklists
           1. Should only be developed when a program exists within a unit but no HAF,
           MAJCOM or parent MAJCOM SAC exists within MICT.
           2. Must be developed based on published guidance.
           3. Will be approved by the SAPM in the next higher agency within the Chain-of-
           Command.
           4. Will be named IAW AFI 90-201 guidance.
   d. Self Assessment Checklist Execution
        i. Units will develop specific ROEs for who can “Complete Assessment” for a SAC
      within MICT
       ii. All “Yes/Comply” and “N/A” items will have justification and supporting
      documentation if available.
      iii. All “No/Non-Comply” items will have a “Deficiency” record populated within 3 days
      of discovery.
   e. Deficiency Management and Resolution
        i. Unit SAPMs will be the OPR for all unit deficiencies and will develop root cause
      analysis procedures for deficiency resolution.
       ii. All deficiencies with Estimated Closeout Dates (ECD) greater than 90 days from
      discovery must be approved by the next higher agency within the Chain-of-Command and
      submitted to the WSAPM.
      iii. The WSAPM will track and report, at a minimum, all deficiencies on Tier 1 items and
      all CRITICAL deficiencies.
      iv. Deficiency Closeout Authority
           1. All CRITICAL deficiencies will be closed out by the wing commander.
           2. Group Commanders will develop guidance on who can close out SIGNIFICANT
           deficiencies.
           3. All MINOR deficiencies can be closed out by the unit commander.
   f. Resources
        i. MICT “Help Guides,” located in MICT under the “Assistance” tab
       ii. 374 AW Self Assessment Program Sharepoint
      iii. 374 AW MICT Help Desk, DSN 225-9554

14. This memorandum supersedes the 374th Airlift Wing supplement to AFI 90-201. If you
have any questions, please contact Maj Edward Walker, 374 AW/XPI, DSN 225-9554.

   Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this memorandum are
maintained IAW AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in accordance with
the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.
The guidance in this memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date of this
memorandum, or upon release of an Air Force publication incorporating the guidance, whichever
is earlier.




                                              MARK R. AUGUST, Colonel, USAF
                                              Commander
                                              374th Airlift Wing
