                             DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                        PACIFIC AIR FORCES




                                                                             YOKOTAABGM10-1

                                                                                        3 May 2013


MEMORANDUM FOR 374TH AIRLIFT WING PERSONNEL

FROM: 374 AW/CC
      Unit 5078
      APO AP 96326-5078

SUBJECT: Yokota AB Guidance Memorandum on Yokota Air Base Critical Information List

Releasability: There are no restrictions on release of this publication

       By Order of the Commander, 374th Airlift Wing, this is a Yokota Air Base Guidance
Memorandum immediately implementing policy for Yokota Air Base Critical Information List.
Compliance with this memorandum is mandatory. To the extent its direction is inconsistent with
other Air Force Publications, the information herein prevails, in accordance with AFI 33-360,
Publications and Forms Management.

1. The mission success of the 374 AW is dependent upon the ability to protect critical
information in all forms of communications.

2. AFI 10-701 defines critical information as any specific fact about friendly intentions,
capability, or activity vitally needed by adversaries to plan and act effectively, eventually leading
to unacceptable consequences or failure of friendly mission accomplishment. Release of this
information could give an adversary a tactical advantage, resulting in an unacceptable loss of
equipment or personnel.

3. The following types of information are sensitive to the 374th Airlift Wing mission and should
not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel. Details or information related to these topics may be
classified or unclassified, but even if they are unclassified, they should be treated as For Official
Use Only and protected as such. Always use the most secure means practicable to discuss the
following items and destroy working papers when no longer needed. It is imperative all
personnel know what information is deemed critical in order to avoid its inadvertent disclosure.

   a. OPERATIONS. Details or information relating to:
      1) Combat readiness levels to include inspection results
      2) Aircraft and/or aircrew status
      3) Exercise scenarios or plans correlating to real-world OPLANS
      4) Deployment/contingency operations supporting contingency plans or procedures
        5) Medical support capabilities
        6) Threat avoidance tactics, techniques and/or procedures

   b.    LOGISTICS and EQUIPMENT. Details or information relating to:
        1) Status and quantity of special cargo shipments (i.e. MICAPS, munitions, medical
           supplies)
        2) Location and quantity of special equipment/stores at Yokota AB
        3) Adequacy of air, sea, rail and land supply lines
        4) Equipment deficiencies, shortfalls or constraints affecting mission performance
        5) Mobility requirements, personnel or equipment
        6) New equipment or capabilities
        7) War Reserve Materials requirements and actual levels
        8) Deployment or movement of aircraft to/from Yokota AB (i.e. times, locations,
           people, number of aircraft, etc.)

   c. PERSONNEL and ADMINISTRATION. Details or information relating to:
      1) Command and Control structure of the 374 AW
      2) OPLANs and documents relating to mobility
      3) Training and readiness status
      4) Personnel/personal issues (financial problems, relationship issues, substance abuse,
         administrative actions, etc)
      5) Manning levels

   d. INTELLIGENCE and SECURITY. Details or information relating to:
      1) Names, details, nicknames and code words of classified projects
      2) Maps and objective area materials supporting real-world plans
      3) Intelligence capabilities and techniques
      4) Information on potential enemy targets
      5) Recurring intelligence areas of interest
      6) Physical security tactics, plans and deficiencies
      7) Force Protection focus areas
      8) Knowledge of adversarial tactics, techniques and/or procedures
      9) Computer network vulnerabilities

5. Please direct any questions regarding the 374 AW OPSEC program to 374 AW/XP office at
DSN 225-7811.

6. This memorandum supersedes the previous guidance memorandum, same subject dated 30
Apr 12.

        Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this Memorandum are
maintained in accordance with AF Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and
disposed of in accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.

        The policy in this Memorandum becomes void after one year has elapsed from the date of

                                                2
this Memorandum, or upon release of an AF publication incorporating the guidance, whichever
is earlier.




                                          MARK R. AUGUST, Colonel, USAF
                                          Commander
                                          374th Airlift Wing




                                             3
