BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                      YOKOTA AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 36-3010
374TH AIRLIFT WING
                                                                               19 APRIL 2012

                                                                                    Personnel

                                                              VOLUNTEER PROGRAM (PA)




             COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY: Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
               www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication


OPR: 374 FSS/FSFR                                                   Certified by: 374 MSG/CC
                                                                         (Col Todd M. Freece)
                                                                                       Pages: 6




This instruction clarifies responsibilities and procedures for administering the Volunteer
Resource and Volunteer Recognition Program. This instruction implements AFI 36-3009,
Airman and Family Readiness Centers. This instruction applies to all assigned, attached and
tenant units at Yokota Air Base (AB). This instruction requires maintaining information subject
to the Privacy Act of 1974, authorized by Title 10 U.S.C., Chapter 857, Decorations and Awards;
as implemented by Air Force Regulation Unit Awards and Decorations, and E.O. 9397 (SSN).
The System of Records Notice F036 AF PC V, Awards and Decorations, 11 June 1997, 62 FR
31793, applies. Ensure that all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this
publication are maintained in accordance (IAW) Air Force Manual (AFMAN) 33-363,
Management of Records, and dispose of IAW the Air Force Records Information Management
System       (AFRIMS)        Records     Disposition      Schedule      (RDS)     located    at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through
their appropriate functional chain of command.


1. Program Objectives. Recognition of volunteers is very important to sustaining a viable and
flourishing volunteer program. Program objectives are as follows:
   1.1. Recognize outstanding volunteer community service in our base and local community.
 2                                                      YOKOTAABI36-3010 19 APRIL 2012


2. Program Responsibilities. The Yokota Airman and Family Readiness Center (A&FRC)
collaborates with other base volunteer agencies to recognize volunteer service. Commanders and
supervisors encourage volunteerism and actively support volunteer recognition programs.
     2.1. Agencies and organizations utilizing volunteers will be responsible for training
     volunteers and should establish programs to track and record volunteer service hours.
     2.2. Agencies and organizations utilizing volunteers are highly encouraged to report
     volunteer service hours to the A&FRC on a regular basis to facilitate base-level recognition.
     Monthly reporting is recommended.
     2.3. The A&FRC will highly publicize volunteer recognition opportunities and call for
     nominations for annual volunteer service awards in December of each year.
     2.4. The A&FRC will organize and execute an annual volunteer recognition ceremony to
     properly recognize volunteers. The annual volunteer recognition ceremony will normally be
     held in April each year to coincide with National Volunteer Appreciation Week.
     2.5. The A&FRC will procure appropriate trophies, certificates and mementos to be awarded
     to volunteers at the annual recognition ceremony. The A&FRC will submit requisitions for
     awards and mementos for recipients of the Presidential Volunteer Service Award in
     accordance with the Presidential Volunteer Service Award Program.
     2.6. 374 AW Public Affairs will, in cooperation with the A&FRC, publicize volunteer
     resources and opportunities for the base and local community and will provide press
     coverage of the annual volunteer recognition ceremony.
     2.7. The 374 AW Protocol Office will coordinate invitations, reservations and seating for all
     general officers, colonels, and distinguished visitors for the annual recognition ceremony.
     The protocol office will review ceremony script to ensure conformity with proper customs,
     courtesies, and protocol.
     2.8. Commanders and supervisors at all levels will actively support volunteerism and will
     nominate outstanding volunteers for annual recognition. Commanders and supervisors are
     strongly encouraged to attend the annual recognition ceremony.
3. Volunteer Recognition. The purpose of the volunteer recognition/awards program is to
appropriately honor those individuals whose volunteer service makes a significant contribution
to the Yokota community. This program recognizes volunteers who individually, or as part of a
private organization/agency, are nominated for consideration for that calendar year.
     3.1. Award Categories.
        3.1.1. Active Duty Member Volunteer of the Year: Awarded to an active duty
        member assigned to Yokota Air Base for outstanding volunteer service.
        3.1.2. Civilian Employee Volunteer of the Year: Awarded to a civilian employee of
        Yokota Air Base for outstanding volunteer service.
        3.1.3. Family Member Volunteer of the Year: Awarded for outstanding volunteer
        service by a dependent family member whose sponsor is assigned to Yokota Air Base.
        3.1.4. Youth Volunteer of the Year: Awarded for outstanding volunteer service by an
        individual under the age of 18 whose sponsor is assigned to Yokota Air Base. Nominees
YOKOTAABI36-3010 19 APRIL 2012                                                               3


     for the Youth Volunteer of the Year must be under the age of 18 throughout the entire
     period of consideration.
     3.1.5. Local National Volunteer of the Year: Awarded to a Japanese citizen whose
     volunteer service enhanced Japanese-American relations.
     3.1.6. Key Spouse Volunteer of the Year: Awarded to appointed/trained Key Spouses
     and/or Key Spouse Mentors who provided support services to the spouses within their
     respective unit(s).
     3.1.7. Volunteer Excellence Award (VEA): The VEA is established to recognize
     federal civilians, family members, and military federal retirees who perform outstanding
     volunteer community service of a sustained, direct, and consequential nature. The
     volunteer service must be significant in character, produce tangible results and reflect
     favorably on the United States Air Force. This award is intended to recognize
     exceptional long-term community support, not a single act or achievement.
     3.1.8. President's Volunteer Service Award: The A&FRC is a certifying organization
     for the President’s Volunteer Service Award - a recognition program for Americans of all
     ages who contribute a significant amount of time to volunteer service. The program
     recognizes individuals, families, and groups that have achieved a certain standard –
     measured by the number of hours served over a 12-month period. Any volunteer may
     register at the web site (http://www.presidentialserviceawards.gov) and record
     volunteer activities. Yokota Air Base personnel and their dependent family members are
     encouraged to register, then edit profile and enter HJX51788 as the Certifying
     Organization.
     3.1.9. Military Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal (MOVSM). Military members
     may become eligible for the Military Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal. This award
     is processed through the Military Personnel Section and is awarded to members of the
     Armed Forces of the United States and their Reserve Components who perform
     outstanding volunteer community service of a sustained direct and consequential nature.
     Approval authority is delegated to commanders authorized to award their Service
     Achievement Medal. Military members should contact the 374 FSS Military Personnel
     Section for additional details. Commanders may request presentation of the MOVSM at
     the Annual Volunteer Recognition Ceremony.
  3.2. Consideration Periods.
     3.2.1. Volunteer of the Year (all categories) and the President’s Volunteer Service
     Award: 1 Jan – 31 Dec
     3.2.2. VEA: Sustained (long-term), direct service within the period 1 Apr – 31 Mar
     3.2.3. MOVSM: While there is no specific time period to qualify for the MOVSM (for
     example, 500 hours of community service within 24 calendar months), approval
     authorities shall ensure the service to be honored merits the special recognition afforded
     by this medal. The MOVSM is intended to recognize exceptional community support
     over time and not a single act or achievement. Further, it is intended to honor direct
     support of community activities.
4                                                     YOKOTAABI36-3010 19 APRIL 2012


    3.3. Nomination Procedures.
       3.3.1. Nominations for the Volunteer of the Year awards will be submitted on an AF
       Form 1206, Nomination for Award. The AF Form 1206 is available for download at
       http://www.e-publishing.af.mil.         Nominations can originate from the individual
       providing direct supervision to the volunteer, anyone working with the volunteer or the
       volunteer. If the nominating person does not have access to an AF Form 1206, any
       document containing the volunteer’s name, volunteer organization, award category the
       person is being submitted for and contact information for both the nominating official
       and nominee can be used. Nominations will describe how the nominee met the award
       criteria using results-oriented bullet statements. Nominations will contain a maximum of
       20 lines under the heading of VOLUNTEER WORK PERFORMED BY THE
       NOMINEE.
       3.3.2. Nominations for all Volunteer of the Year nomination categories must be
       submitted to the A&FRC NLT than 15 Feb of each year. Hand delivery of all nomination
       packages to the A&FRC is strongly recommended however electronic or postal delivery
       is acceptable. Nominating officials should confirm receipt of nominations with the
       A&FRC.
       3.3.3. Nominations to receive the President’s Volunteer Service Award consist solely of
       the verification statement available from the President’s Volunteer Service Award web
       site. The verification statement must be submitted to the A&FRC by 15 Feb to receive an
       award for the previous calendar year.
       3.3.4. Nominations to receive the MOVSM are processed by the Military Personnel
       Section.
    3.4. Selection.
       3.4.1. A review/selection board will be convened to select the winners in each category.
       The MSG/CC will be the selection board President, and the board will consist of one
       CMSgt, one key spouse selected by the MSG/CC and one GS-9 or above. The selection
       board will meet the third week in February of each year to review nomination packages
       and select the Volunteers of the Year from each category as well as the VEA winners.
       3.4.2. The MSG/CC will forward the list of selectees to 374 AW/CC for final approval.
    3.5. Annual Recognition Ceremony. An annual recognition ceremony will be held to honor
    and recognize all volunteers from the Yokota community. The ceremony will take place
    during the National Volunteer Recognition month (traditionally observed each April).
    General responsibilities for execution of the annual recognition ceremony are outlined in
    paragraph 2.
       3.5.1. The 374 AW Commander or his/her designated representative will host the annual
       volunteer recognition ceremony.
YOKOTAABI36-3010 19 APRIL 2012                                                             5



     3.5.2. In addition to nominees and winners in each category, all volunteers with service
     hours reported to the A&FRC will be recognized with a certificate and/or memento.
     3.5.3. Military members approved to receive the MOVSM may be presented the medal at
     the annual recognition ceremony.




                                         PAUL E. FEATHER, Colonel, USAF
                                         Commander, 374th Airlift Wing
 6                                                 YOKOTAABI36-3010 19 APRIL 2012


                                       Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFI 36-3009, Airman and Family Readiness Centers, 18 January 2008
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication, 22 September 2009
AF Form 1206, Nomination for Award, 1 July 2000

Abbreviations and Acronyms
A&FRC—Airman and Family Readiness Center
IAW—In Accordance With
MOVSM—Military Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal
OPR—Office of Primary Responsibility
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
VEA—Volunteer Excellence Award
