                            DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE
                                        PACIFIC AIR FORCES




                                                                      YOKOTAABGM2014-40-01
                                                                              17 November 2014



MEMORANDUM FOR ALL YOKOTA AIR BASE PERSONNEL
FROM: 374 AW/CC
         Unit 5078
         APO AP 96326-5078


SUBJECT: Yokota Air Base Guidance Memorandum on Medical Insurance Coverage in Japan
            for Visitors
Releasability: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication
        By Order of the Commander, 374th Airlift Wing, this is a Yokota Air Base Guidance
Memorandum immediately implementing guidance for Yokota Air Base visitors who are not
traveling on orders, or otherwise affiliated with the Department of Defense, to provide proof of
healthcare insurance valid in Japan in order to receive a base pass for more than 24 hours. To the
extent its direction is inconsistent with other Air Force Publications, the information herein
prevails, in accordance with Air Force Instruction 33-360, Publications and Forms Management.
        1. As the installation commander, I am responsible for the safety and well-being of all
Yokota personnel, their families and visitors. In the past, visitors to Yokota Air Base have been
hospitalized at host nation medical facilities and lacked medical insurance and means of payment
for care. These facilities provide essential services for our base population not available at our
military treatment facilities. Non-payment to host nation facilities could lead to loss of these
important services.
        2. When friends and family have serious medical problems while visiting Japan, finding
suitable medical care can be both difficult and expensive. Unless visitors are properly insured,
the cost of emergency medical care, hospitalization and/or aeromedical evacuation can exceed
$120,000. Visitors should be aware that many United States (US) medical insurance companies,
including Medicare and Medicaid, will not pay for care outside of the US.
         3. The 374th Airlift Wing is committed to maintaining strong relationships with our host
nation medical facilities and ensuring the safety of our assigned personnel and visitors. To meet
this goal, all visitors, defined as friends and family members who are not on orders or otherwise
affiliated with the Department of Defense, must provide written proof of healthcare insurance
valid in Japan to obtain a base pass for more than 24 hours. This process is described in
Attachment 1. Healthcare insurance policies must include emergency medical expenses and
medical evacuation coverage for the duration of the visitor’s pass. A list of companies that
provide traveler’s insurance is provided at Attachment 2.
        4. This memorandum supersedes the previous policy letter, same subject, dated 5 Apr
2012.


        Ensure all records created as a result of processes prescribed in this memorandum are
maintained in accordance with AF Manual 33-363, Management of Records, and disposed of in
accordance with the Air Force Records Disposition Schedule located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm.


        The guidance in this memorandum becomes void after one-year has elapsed from the date
of this memorandum, or upon release of an AF publication incorporating the guidance,
whichever is earlier.



                                                 DOUGLAS C. DELAMATER, Colonel, USAF
                                                 Commander
                                                 374th Airlift Wing


Attachments:
Multi-Day Base Pass Coordination Process
Obtaining Traveler’s Insurance




                                                2
                                          Attachment 1
                  MULTI-DAY BASE PASS COORDINATION PROCESS
In accordance with the 374 AW/CC’s guidance memorandum “Medical Insurance Coverage in
Japan for Visitors,” all sponsored guests visiting Yokota Air Base must provide proof of medical
insurance valid in Japan prior to obtaining a base pass that is valid for more than 24 hours.
PROCEDURES BEFORE GUESTS ARRIVES:
Sponsors must coordinate proof of visitor’s medical insurance coverage in Japan with the
TRICARE & Patient Administration (TOPA) office, and are encouraged to do so before the
visitor has arrived. There are three ways to obtain proper paperwork from the TOPA office prior
to the arrival of guests. In order of preference, they are:
   -   Option 1: Scan proof of insurance and email it to 374mdss.topaflight@us.af.mil. TOPA
       will provide insurance verification letter (or request additional info) via email within one
       duty day.
   -   Option 2: Fax proof of insurance to DSN 225-6607 or COMM 042-55-22510, after tone,
       dial 56607. TOPA will provide insurance verification letter (or request additional info)
       within one duty day.
   -   Option 3: Bring copy of insurance to TOPA office, Room 101, hospital Bldg 4408.
       TOPA will provide insurance verification letter (or request additional info) while the
       sponsor waits.
The insurance policy must be written in English or the sponsor will be required to provide a
certified English translation of this proof of insurance.
The sponsor will take the insurance verification letter (received from TOPA) to Pass and
Registration (P&R) who will issue an extended base pass in accordance with current visitor
policy.
PROCEDURES IF GUEST ARRIVES WITHOUT INSURANCE
When a visitor arrives at the Visitor Control Center (VCC) and there is an indication they will be
on-base for greater than 24 hours, the VCC will provide a handout explaining the new insurance
guidance and instructions on how to obtain and prove medical insurance coverage while in
Japan.
The visitor will be issued a 24-hour pass with instructions to obtain medical insurance and report
to the TOPA office during duty hours (0730-1630 Monday - Friday) to obtain verification of
required medical coverage.
Note: Not all insurance companies process applications and issue insurance within 24 hours.
The VCC will issue only a limited number of 24-hour passes.
Once the sponsor receives the insurance verification letter from the TOPA Office, they will
proceed to P&R where the guest will be issued an extended base pass in accordance with current
visitor guidance.




                                                3
                                          Attachment 2
                         OBTAINING TRAVELER’S INSURANCE
1. Medical travel insurance plans are relatively inexpensive (approx $5/day depending on age)
with medical coverage options from $50,000 to over $1,000,000. Most plans may be purchased
online instantly (or within 24 hours) with coverage starting as early as the next day. Although
many plans have similar benefits, coverage for pre-existing conditions varies significantly,
ranging from zero benefits to full coverage if pre-existing conditions are controlled with
medications. Almost all plans provide multilingual representatives 24 hours per day, 7 days per
week. Most also include emergency medical coverage and medical evacuation benefits.
2. The list below of medical plans can be found at:
       http://www.insubuy.com or http://www.travelinsure.com.
3. The plan costs are based on the following criteria:
       a. US Citizen with international coverage (the cost for non-US citizens may vary slightly)
       b. Two Travelers (aged 60-64) for 14-day trip
       c. Policy Maximum Coverage: $100,000 w/$250 deductable
               (1) Patriot International ($121.80)
               (2) Atlas International ($131.60)
               (3) Travel Gap Voyager ($130.20)
               (4) Liaison Majestic ($146.70)
               (5) Diplomat International ($120.92)
               (6) Liaison Continent ($118.44)
               (7) Liaison National ($125.16)
               (8) WorldMed Insurance ($134.00)
4. The Air Force does not endorse the above listed insurance plans. They are listed only to
illustrate approximately how much a medical insurance plan will cost. There are many medical
plans at various websites offering similar benefits. All persons visiting Japan should research
multiple insurance plans to determine which plan best fits their specific needs.
5. We recommend purchasing at least $100K of medical travel insurance, emergency medical
care and aeromedical evacuation coverage prior to arrival at Yokota Air Base. There are limited
medical insurance agencies available locally, and the cost may be considerably higher than
comparable plans purchased in the United States or online.




                                                 4
