BY ORDER OF THE COMMANDER                        YOKOTA AIR BASE INSTRUCTION 34-116
YOKOTA AIR BASE
                                                                                4 MARCH 2014

                                                                                        Services

                                                                 AIR FORCE GOLF COURSE
                                                                     PROGRAM YOKOTA AB

              COMPLIANCE WITH THIS PUBLICATION IS MANDATORY

ACCESSIBILITY:        Publications and forms are available on the e-Publishing website at
                      www.e-Publishing.af.mil for downloading or ordering

RELEASABILITY: There are no releasability restrictions on this publication

OPR: 374 FSS/FSC                                                      Certified by: 374 MSG/CC
                                                                         (Col Edward R. Brown)
Supersedes:   YOKOTAABI34-116,                                                          Pages: 8
              9 August 2012


This instruction implements AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services. This instruction clarifies approval
authorities, further defines the procedures for granting special memberships and protocol tee
times, and establishes tee times by priority at Tama Hills Golf Course. It applies to all
individuals using Tama Hills Golf Course. This instruction applies to all assigned, attached, and
tenant units at Yokota Air Base (AB), Japan. Ensure that all records created as a result of
processes prescribed in this publication are maintained in accordance with (IAW) Air Force
Manual (AFMAN) 33-363, Management of Records, and dispose of IAW the Air Force Records
Information Management System (AFRIMS) Records Disposition Schedule (RDS) located at
https://www.my.af.mil/afrims/afrims/afrims/rims.cfm. Refer recommended changes and
questions about this publication to the Office of Primary Responsibility (OPR) using AF Form
847, Recommendation for Change of Publication; route AF Forms 847 from the field through
their appropriate functional chain of command.

SUMMARY OF CHANGES

This document has had changes to paragraphs 3.1. and 3.2., with the addition of the requirement
for sponsors to physically be with their guests at all times. Added paragraph 3.3.1., The Tama
Hills Golf Course Special Events Office will coordinate a quarterly Non-SOFA visitor pass
request as defined in YOKOTA ABI 31-101, Integrated Defense, Chapter 7. The pass will
include those Non-SOFA members worthy of unescorted access and requested by the Tama Hills
Manager and approved by the 374 FSS/CC. Non-SOFA visitors on the list are not authorized to
escort.
 2                                                        YOKOTAABI34-116 4 MARCH 2014


1. Tee Time Policy. The Tee Time Policy is effective on Saturdays, Sundays, and US
holidays specifically between the hours of 0600-1200. All Saturday, Sunday, and US Holiday
tee times are allocated according to the following three categories:
     1.1. Category A: All Air Force and other active duty personnel and their families assigned
     to Yokota AB.
     1.2. Category B: All active duty and families not assigned to Yokota AB. All military
     retirees and their families. All US Department of Defense (DoD) government employees and
     their families assigned to Yokota AB and US Embassy personnel and their families in Tokyo.
     1.3. Category C: All US government employees and their families not assigned to Yokota
     AB. Military personnel of foreign nations (except Japan) and their family members assigned
     to Yokota AB. All SOFA contractors assigned to Yokota AB.
     1.4. Category D: Local National base employees (Master Labor Contract [MLC] & Indirect
     Hire Agreement [IHA]), Japan Air Self-Defense Force (JASDF) assigned to Yokota AB, and
     currently approved Friends of Yokota Association (FoYA) members (second shift tee times
     only on weekends/US holidays).
2. Tee Time Request Policy and Procedures:
     2.1. Tama Hills Golf Course:
        2.1.1. Weekend and holiday tee times are assigned using a lottery drawing system.
        Weekend tee time drawings are held on Wednesdays at 1200 in the Golf Course
        Administrative Office.
        2.1.2. Reserved tee times will only be given to threesomes and foursomes.
        2.1.3. Non-holiday weekday tee times for SOFA status personnel are available either in
        person or by calling the Pro Shop up to two weeks prior.
            2.1.3.1. Non-holiday weekday tee times for non-SOFA status personnel assigned to
            Yokota AB (MLC employees, IHA employees, JASDF, non-SOFA contractors, and
            United Nations Command-Rear personnel) are available either in person or by calling
            the Pro Shop up to ten days prior.
            2.1.3.2. Non-holiday weekday tee times for FoYA members are available either in
            person or by calling the Pro Shop up to seven days prior.
            2.1.3.3. Non-holiday weekday tee times less than seven days away will be open to all
            authorized users on a first-come, first-served basis.
        2.1.4. Tee time requests for lottery drawings are accepted at the Tama Hills Golf Course
        or Par 3 Golf Course. Submission deadline for the weekend and holidays falling on
        Monday and Tuesday is 1200 the Wednesday prior. Submission for holidays falling on
        Wednesday through Friday is two days prior to the holiday at 1200.
        2.1.5. All tee time requests are screened for authenticity and separated by category
        immediately after the submission deadline.
        2.1.6. After each drawing, tee times are allocated as follows:
YOKOTAABI34-116 4 MARCH 2014                                                                  3


       2.1.6.1. The first 20 Category A tee times (ten for the front nine and ten for the back
       nine) are filled via the lottery drawing with groups having four Category A players.
       If the Category A list is exhausted, the remaining tee times will be filled with
       Category B players.
       2.1.6.2. Once the first 20 Category A tee times are filled, the remaining times will be
       allocated to the remaining eligible players. During this portion of the drawing,
       Category A and Category B groups will have equal status for tee time assignment.
       2.1.6.3. When the pool for tee time requests for Category A and B groups is
       exhausted, groups from Category C will be drawn and once the Category C group is
       exhausted, groups from Category D will be drawn for the remaining tee times.
       2.1.6.4. Category A groups must be made up of four players from that category.
       Threesomes are not eligible for the first 20 starting times. Substitutions within
       Category A groups must be another Category A player.
       2.1.6.5. Category B groups must be made up of a minimum of three persons from the
       Category B eligibility group or a combination of Category A and B players. No more
       than one Category C player may be included in a Category B group.
       2.1.6.6. Substitutions and changes within Category A and B groups may be made as
       long as the group makeup meets the minimum requirements stated above.
       2.1.6.7. Category D players may not be substituted into any of the Category A, B, or
       C groups for a morning tee time on weekends/US holidays.
          2.1.6.7.1. A waiting list for players without a tee time will be maintained by the
          Starter and/or Pro Shop staff. The Starter and/or Pro Shop staff will assign tee
          times to golfers on the list with SOFA status personnel having priority. A golfer
          must sign up in person and be ready to play. Sign-ups (in person) for the waiting
          list are taken on a first-come, first-served basis. Sign-ups for the waiting list will
          not be taken by phone.
          2.1.6.7.2. Names will be dropped from the list after being announced twice
          without response. Non-SOFA golfers will be assigned a tee time from the waiting
          list 15 minutes prior to the starting time if there are no SOFA status personnel
          waiting at that time.
          2.1.6.7.3. SOFA and non-SOFA golfers will be paired from the waiting list to
          allow all patrons the opportunity to play golf. SOFA customers do have priority
          on the waiting list, however this does not mean SOFA and non-SOFA will not be
          paired off the waiting list to make up threesomes or foursomes. This is to speed
          up play, as well as to accommodate all patrons as soon as possible. Single players
          are not allowed on weekends and holidays without the approval of the manager.
          2.1.6.7.4. Name changes to reserved tee times may be made by calling 225-
          2223/224-3426 or in person. When a group does not maintain the status declared
          at the time of the original tee time request, they may lose their starting time and
          the time vacated will be filled from the waiting list. It is mandatory that a person
          whose name has been submitted as a “change” presents his or her ID card when
          checking in with the starter to play. This is to ensure proper priority and to
 4                                                        YOKOTAABI34-116 4 MARCH 2014


                properly identify the golfer’s name on the reservation sheet.
     2.2. Par 3 Golf Course:
        2.2.1. Tee times (SOFA Status personnel) are available either in person or by calling the
        Pro Shop (225-8815) up to one week prior. Two or more SOFA Status personnel are
        required to reserve a tee time. Singles will not be allowed to reserve a tee time.
        2.2.2. All other Categories of authorized players (two or more) may make a tee time
        either in person or by calling the Pro Shop (225-8815) six days or less prior to the desired
        date.
3. Authorized Users:
     3.1. Authorized users of the Tama Hills Golf Course include all military and civilian SOFA
     status personnel and families, military retirees and families, US DoD government employees
     and families as well as US Embassy Tokyo personnel and families, military personnel of
     foreign nations and their family members assigned to Yokota, and all SOFA contractors
     assigned to Yokota. These individuals are authorized to sponsor up to three guests each.
     Sponsors must physically be on property with their guests at all times.
     3.2. In addition, the following non-SOFA personnel are authorized to play at Tama Hills
     Golf Course at the posted fee structure and sponsor up to three non-SOFA status guests per
     day: Japanese whose primary employment location is Yokota AB (i.e., MLC employees,
     IHA employees, JASDF, Yokota Defense Office [YDO] employees, North Kanto Defense
     Bureau [NKDB] employees), United Nations Command-Rear personnel, contract employees
     with approved logistical support, FoYA members, and other foreign military personnel with
     access to Yokota AB. All local national guests not affiliated with the base will pay the
     premium local national rate. Sponsors must physically be on property with their guests at all
     times.
        3.2.1. Non-SOFA personnel authorized under this instruction may play at the Tama Hills
        Golf Course on Saturdays, Sundays, US holidays, down days, and cer tain other days
        (e.g., Pacific Air Forces [PACAF] Family Days) specifically after 1000 hrs and/or earlier
        as determined by course management after all morning tee time players (i.e., SOFA and
        Protocol tee time players) have completed their first nine holes and have made the turn
        for their final nine holes. Non-SOFA personnel authorized under this instruction may
        also play on weekdays.
        3.2.2. Non-SOFA personnel allowed access to Tama Hills Golf Course are only
        authorized to purchase expendable items in the Pro Shop and purchase food and
        beverages for consumption on the premises.
     3.3. Staff and sponsors will adhere to the following policies during tournament play and/or
     special functions held at Tama Hills Golf Course: Sponsors of four or more guests must
     receive approval from the Tama Hills Golf Course Special Events Office 15 calendar days
     prior to the event. Once approved, the Tama Hills Golf Course Special Events Office will
     coordinate with 374 SFS, Pass and Registration office as defined in YOKOTA ABI 31-101,
     Integrated Defense, Chapter 7.
        3.3.1. , The Tama Hills Golf Course Special Events Office will coordinate a quarterly
        Non-SOFA visitor pass request as defined in YOKOTA ABI 31-101, Integrated Defense,
YOKOTAABI34-116 4 MARCH 2014                                                                        5


       Chapter 7. The pass will include those Non-SOFA members worthy of unescorted access
       and requested by the Tama Hills Manager and approved by the 374 FSS/CC. Non-SOFA
       visitors on the list are not authorized to escort.
3.4. This restriction does not apply to facility sponsored programs and events conducted by
course management with the advance approval of 374th Force Support Squadron leadership.
   3.5. Third country nationals as listed on USFJINST 31-204, Restrictions on Designated
   Third Country Nationals to Usfj Installations and Areas, are not authorized on the
   installation without prior approval from the 374 AW/CC or as delegated.
   3.6. Family Members. Family members (i.e., mother, father, brother, sister) of SOFA status
   personnel may play at the sponsor’s rate as long as they are properly sponsored onto Tama
   Hills Golf Course. Family members of SOFA status personnel may play the course in
   accordance with the rate and priority of the SOFA status sponsor. Family guests must
   furnish an official form of identification upon check-in as requested by facility management.
   3.7. All sponsors and guests are subject to the restrictions stated in this instruction as well as
   all other applicable security restrictions.
4. Honorary Membe rships and Friends of Yokota Association (FoYa). This instruction
allows selected individuals, as referenced in USFJINST 34-202, Use of USFJ Golf Course by
Japanese Citizens not covered under the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA), to utilize Tama
Hills Golf Course. Members and authorized guests admitted under the provisions of this section
do not require SOFA status, but may access Tama Hills Golf Course under the terms of this
section.
   4.1. Honorary Members. 374 AW/CC will develop, approve and maintain a list of Japanese
   citizens who shall be granted Honorary membership. This list will include those Honorary
   members designated by the United States Forces, Japan Commander (USFJ/CC).
       4.1.1. Honorary members will be individuals in prominent positions (i.e., Fussa Mayor,
       Chief of Japan Self- Defense Force) and/or citizens who are now, or have previously
       contributed to the support of the US-Japan Mutual Security Treaty, and of US Forces in
       Japan. These citizens will be presented an Honorary membership card good for one year.
       This membership is subject to annual review and renewal b y the 374 AW/CC or
       designee.
   4.2. FoYA. Membership in FoYA is for individuals who have demonstrated a history of
   contributing to improving the relationship between Yokota AB and the local community.
       4.2.1. The Tama Hills Events Coordinator Office will accept nominations for
       membership and provide all submitted applications to the 374 AW Public Affairs (374
       AW/PA). The 374 AW/PA will also accept recommendations directly. The applicant
       should include the following information, at a minimum; name in English and Kanji,
       Japanese ID number, home address, birth date, occupation, country of citizenship and
       justification for membership.
       4.2.2. Applications will be logged and evaluated for appropriate justification of
       membership and applicants’ information will be provided to the 374th Security Forces
       Squadron (SFS) and Office of Special Investigations (OSI) to initiate appropriate records
 6                                                       YOKOTAABI34-116 4 MARCH 2014


        checks. 374 AW/PA will provide recommendations to the 374 AW/CC for final approval
        of FoYA membership.
        4.2.3. 374 AW/PA will maintain a list of Japanese citizens who are granted FoYA
        membership by the 374 AW/CC. Approved membership lists will be distributed b y 374
        AW/PA to monitoring organizations (374 FSS/374 SFS) and will be reviewed and
        renewed annually by the 374 AW/CC or his designee. Authorization access checks will
        be conducted by 374 SFS personnel assigned to the Tama facility entrance in accordance
        with the most current FoYA membership listing and pass provided by 374 AW/PA. A
        membership may be revoked by the 374 AW/CC or designee at any time.
     4.3. Honorary and FoYA members will pay the green fee and golf cart rental fee equivalent
     to the current premium local national rate. Guests and other persons playing with FoYA
     members will pay appropriate fee according to their status (i.e., MLC and IHA employees,
     local national guests, or SOFA status personnel).
5. Reduced Green Fee Policy. Requests for reduced fees will be routed through either USFJ
Chief of Protocol (USFJ/J022) or 374 AW Protocol (374 AW/CCP) and must be submitted two
weeks prior to use date. Weekends and US or Japanese National Holidays are excluded from
this program. Reduced green fees further the ability of official personnel to enhance working
relationships by allowing them to sponsor their Japanese counterparts for a round of golf.
     5.1. Officers ranking O-6 and above, as well as Chief Master Sergeants of USFJ/5 AF and
     374 AW who have a legitimate need for building and maintaining working relationships with
     their Japanese counterparts, shall be able to sponsor guests using the reduced fees program.
     One sponsor is required for each foursome of guests receiving the reduced green fees rate.
     5.2. Authorized sponsors will pay the reduced fees for their guests in advance of the event.
     Reduced fees will not be authorized for the same individual(s) or groups on a regularly
     recurring basis. Units should budget Official Representation-type Funds (ORF) for recurring
     requirements. Sponsors will not exceed 12 requests per year for reduced green fees.
     5.3. Reduced fee requests are for green fees only. Meals, cart rental and other associated
     fees are excluded from this program. It remains the requester’s responsibility for scheduling
     tee times through their respective protocol office and the Tama Hills Golf Course. Each
     authorized individual will sponsor no more than four guests in a single request. Individual
     sponsors must be present at the golf course on the date play is scheduled.
6. Protocol and Distinguished Visitors (DV): Weekend protocol tee times will be reserved as
follows:
     6.1. One tee time for each weekend day will be normally sent to Tama Hills Golf Course
     from the following units for said purpose. Tee times managed by the respective protocol
     offices may be used in a different manner than listed to meet mission requirements. Each
     protocol office will fax Tama Hills Golf Course the list of players for all tee times no later
     than (NLT) close of business each Tuesday. Requests for additional tee times require the
     approval of the chief of the respective protocol office. Offices requesting protocol tee times
     must submit their letters to their respective protocol office NLT 1200 on the Friday one full
     week before the desired tee time. The letter must include name and duty title of all players.
YOKOTAABI34-116 4 MARCH 2014                                                                7


Table 1. Protocol and Distinguished Visitors
United States Forces, Japan, Chief of Protocol (USFJ/J022)
5 AF/CC                                                  (1)
5 AF/CV                                                  (1)
5 AF/CCC                                                 (1)
USFJ/J01                                                  (1)
374 AW Protocol (374 AW/CCP)
374 AW/CC                                                 (1)
374 AW/CV/CCC                                            (1)
374 MSG/CC/CCC                                           (1)
JASDF Protocol
JASDF                                                    (1)

7. Tomodachi Rate. Tomodachi Rate can be utilized by SOFA status personnel assigned to
Yokota AB a maximum of three different times a year. It can be used for three different
individual guests during each time the SOFA status sponsor utilizes the Tomodachi Rate. The
Tomodachi Rate is a reduced rate to promote bi- lateral relations between host nation and SOFA
status personnel assigned to Yokota AB.
8. Sponsorship Prohibitions - Applicable to All Individual Sponsors. All authorized users of
Yokota golf courses are prohibited from receiving monetary payment in exchange for the
sponsorship of guests. In addition, they are prohibited from accepting or soliciting for their
personal benefit from a guest and/or another person, any money, gift, or thing of value as a
condition of sponsorship. Sponsors, regardless of category, must accompany their guests at all
times and are responsible for the conduct of their guests. Sponsors not following the
aforementioned requirements can lose sponsorship authorization privileges and/or themselves be
disbarred from utilizing the Yokota golf courses, and/or disbarred from Yokota AB.




                                           MARK R. AUGUST, Colonel, USAF
                                           Commander
 8                                                  YOKOTAABI34-116 4 MARCH 2014


                                     Attachment 1
         GLOSSARY OF REFERENCES AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION

References
AFMAN 33-363, Management of Records, 1 March 2008
AFPD 34-1, Air Force Services, 2 November 2012
USFJINST 34-202, Use of USFJ Golf Course by Non-SOFA Japanese, 13 September 2010
Adopted Forms
AF Form 847, Recommendation for Change of Publication

Abbreviations and Acronyms
AB—Air Base
CC—Commander
CCC—Command Chief Master Sergeant or Group Superintendent
CV—Vice Commander
DoD—Department of Defense
DSRJ—Defense Special Representative Japan
DV—Distinguished Visitors
FGO—Field Grade Officer
FoYA—Friends of Yokota Association
IAW—In Accordance With
IHA—Indirect Hire Agreement
JASDF—Japan Air Self-Defense Force
MLC—Master Labor Contract
NKDB—North Kanto Defense Bureau
NLT—No Later Than
ORF—Official Representation-type Funds
PACAF—Pacific Air Forces
RDS—Records Disposition Schedule
SNCO—Senior Non-commissioned Officer
Sofa—Status of Forces Agreement
UNC(R)—United Nations Command (Rear)
YDO—Yokota Defense Office
